ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u1	The meeting was resumed. Before the start of the monitoring session to the Government, I would remind the parliamentary groups that, in order to ensure a speedy development of the debate and the votes corresponding to the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary, they should, no later than 9.30 a.m., communicate their requests for a separate vote and the amendments affecting their proposals, in order to determine the order and the terms on which they will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u2	We then turn to the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u3	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President of the Government, in the last CIS, 19% of citizens acknowledge being informed through Spanish Radiotelevision. Five years ago, that figure was 39%. It's a 20-point fall in five years. Meanwhile: unilateral change of majority to elect the president, allegations of manipulation by professionals and also a drastic decrease in the contribution of the General Budgets of the State. Today we have a Spanish Radio Television with excellent professionals, but unfounded from the point of view of credibility, quality and audience, and with an economic model questioned at the moment regarding their sustainability. I have heard you say on several occasions, Mr Rajoy, that your ideal model is that of the BBC, and what I want to know is whether they believe they have taken the right steps to achieve it and, if not, what they are going to do from now on. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u5	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. The Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and the professionals working in it are plural and independent. You, like me, may more or less like how you give one or another news, but I certainly defend the professionalism and independence of your professionals. On Spanish Television and National Radio, leaders from different parties in this House are interviewed, you, me, probably you more often than me; in addition, in the information programs external collaborators usually intervene, journalists who work in different media with different ways of seeing things and there they think how they feel appropriate and convenient. As for the Spanish Television economy, I remember that you made an ERE that cost the public era 1.5 billion euros and I remind you that you left us without income because you suppressed advertising. I also tell you that, for the first time in a long time, this year Spanish Television will close its accounts without any kind of deficit. And as for the hearings, see that in the November hearings, the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation's information services are the ones that accumulate the largest number of viewers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u7	Evolution, Mr. President. Look, our goal is to ensure a quality public service, with content that is attractive, independent, credible and economically sustainable. And since we are at the beginning of a legislature and at the end of a framework mandate, what I propose to you and the other groups in the House is that we come to a great deal of agreement to make a new model of funding, a new model of governance for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and a new model of public service programming, Mr Rajoy, which guarantees, on the one hand, excellence and, on the other hand, the future of Spanish Broadcasting and its professionals. And why now? Because you don't have an absolute majority. And that is very positive, Mr Rajoy, because it forces them to rectify and negotiate on this issue of Spanish Radio Television and also on other issues, such as, for example, that of pensions. They have vetoed the rise in pensions that we have asked for from various groups in the House, and the elderly need that rise in pensions, Mr Rajoy. Last week I told him: you have an important meeting with the unions; and that meeting did not go well with you, because the unions the next day were calling for mobilizations that we support because they refuse to reform the most harmful aspects of their labor reform. This week you have the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council that will go wrong if you strive not to negotiate with the Autonomous Communities and with the groups so that there will be no cuts in benefits, in the services provided by the Autonomous Communities and local entities. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, you are not obsessed with the policies of the past, you are not obsessed with the past. Correct and rectify already on Spanish Radiotelevision and also regarding the rise of pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u8	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u9	Thank you. You've made a mix, Mr. Hernando, because here the pensions, the autonomous communities, the local corporations, the unions and other colleagues have appeared. [[Laughter]] I'm willing to talk to you about anything you want. If I want to point out one thing to you and it is that the most important challenge that Spanish Television has is not the challenge that you have referred to - this is the speech that we have heard over the past forty years and have done so you and we -, the most important challenge that Spanish Television has today is to get it to be at the forefront of the movements that are taking place. Some important things are happening in the audiovisual world: new technologies, new forms of consumption, interactivity, the multiplication of supply; today there are new distributors and new producers who compete with the classic operators; today content is consumed through screens, mobile phones, tablets, computers; there are many people who already see television on paper, it is very important also the people who see television on demand; and I believe that the most important challenge that Spanish Television has today is to adapt to the changes that are taking place in the audiovisual world. I am willing to talk to you about what you want, but this, without a doubt, is the main issue and it is the one that will serve to guarantee the future of Spanish Broadcasting. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MANUAL Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO EXECUTE THE DECISIONS OF THE POWER LEGISLATIVE? [[File number 180/000042]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u11	Question by Mr Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrión, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, what does the Executive intend to do to implement the decisions of the Legislature?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u14	We intend to apply those that are mandatory to apply.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u15	Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u16	Impressive answer, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. As you know, the Spanish Constitution, as is normal, reserves the legislative capacity to the General Courts, which these Courts share with the Government by delegation through legislative decrees or through the Government's own initiative through decree-laws. I will not fall into the temptation to quote the Baron of Montesquieu to tell him about the division of powers, for that is already his partner Albert Rivera who yesterday covered himself with glory claiming the anti-Semitic Henry Ford as an enterprising figure. If I tell you that in Spain, Mr Mariano Rajoy, sovereignty resides in Parliament and sovereignty is expressed through Parliament's ability to make laws that change people's lives in some way. The first question is, Mr Mariano Rajoy, that you have said that you will veto any decision by this Parliament affecting the budget. They have come to use the veto to stand against a decision of this Parliament such as the halting of the Lomce calendar, which is a social demand of this country. First question, Mr Mariano Rajoy: do you not think that if this Parliament cannot take decisions that affect the budget its legislative capacity and therefore its exercise of sovereignty is compromised and limited? Secondly, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, you have informed this Congress that you are disconcerting that there are proposals here that have to do with issues as uneven as court fees or energy poverty. I ask you one question: what worries you most, Mr Mariano Rajoy, what does this Parliament think or what the German Chancellor thinks, Mrs Merkel? Because I believe that in Spain there are many citizens who have the impression that in Spain Mrs Merkel sends more than this Parliament, and that is a problem that should be of concern to you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u17	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u18	Mrs Merkel has never given me an order, but if she has given it to you, tell me, because I will draw your attention. [[Laughter]] Mr Iglesias, we live, as Mr Rivera said very well, in a system of division of powers. The powers are three, each has its functions and the functions of the three must be respected. The legislative branch, article 66 of the Constitution, essentially has three functions: to approve budgets, to control government action and to exercise legislative power. So, that's where the Legislative Power runs. The executive branch, according to article 97 of the Constitution, has other functions: to direct internal and foreign policy, civil and military administration and the defence of the State; to exercise executive function and regulatory authority; that is, to govern; and in this area, it is the Government that decides, as is natural. There is still another power, the judiciary, which guarantees the enforcement of the law by everyone, the legislature, the executive branch and any citizen. That is democracy, three powers, each with its own functions and each independent. Therefore, control of the Government is done as this House says, the budget that is approved is the one that approves this House and the laws that the Government has to comply with and attack are the ones that this House says. The rest is the function of the Government, to govern. That, Mr. Iglesias, is the case, I have to say, fortunately, it is in all the countries of our environment, it has been in our country since 1977 and I hope it will remain so in the future. It is a matter of respecting the competences of everyone, legislative power, executive power and judicial power. Honestly, I don't think it's that hard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT POLICIES ARE BRINGINGING YOUR GOVERNMENT TO FOUND THE USE OF THE PRESERVATIVE? [[File number 180/000024]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u19	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u20	Thank you, President. Mr President, as you know, tomorrow is an important day, it is the International AIDS Day and, as I am sure you also know, condom is our main ally in this fight. I don't say it, it's said by experts as insignificant as Bonaventura Clotet. Since you are President of the Government, the budget in this area has been reduced by 70%, what kind of measures do you have in mind to encourage the use of condoms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián, tomorrow is indeed the World AIDS Day, a reminder for all of us to continue fighting this disease and other sexually transmitted diseases. Much progress has been made in recent times, as you know, in prevention and treatment, but we must continue to work with risk groups, we must combat the social or occupational effects that these diseases generate, we must raise awareness among citizens, we must make progress in early diagnosis and we must further promote the training of health personnel, among many other areas. It is an effort that we will seek to redouble this legislature by continuing the efforts that both the Government and the autonomous communities, which have a substantial part of the competences in this area, have made in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u24	Mr President, the truth is that the question was about condoms, condoms; we are not talking about Bárcenas, you can say it: condoms, condoms. Having said that, since it seems not to be very clear, from Esquerra Republicana we propose that, for example, not the same VAT is paid for a hotel suite than for a condom, and already put, not the same VAT for a Jaguar as for a diaper. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u25	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u26	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr. Rufián. As you know, although you do not think so, many efforts are being made by the Ministry of Health and, as I said before, also by the autonomous communities in the fight against AIDS. Prevention measures are very important, essential, and therefore the Government coordinates through the Ministry of Health the Strategic Plan for the Prevention and Control of HIV Infection and Other Sexually Transmitted Infections; a plan that is consensual with the Autonomous Communities and scientific societies. In addition, the Government is collaborating in various programmes with grants to non-governmental organizations. These subsidies have increased by 72%, and this Friday in the Council of Ministers we will agree that they will be distributed. In addition, the programmes are developed by the Autonomous Communities, in which the Government I chair is also involved, whose basic objective is to raise adolescents' awareness of preventive and responsible behaviour. On the other hand, there is also a great international battle on the part of the United Nations in the fight against AIDS. Spain has already met two of the major targets for 2020; it has already done so in 2015. More than 90% of people diagnosed are on antiretroviral treatment and more than 90% of those being treated have undetectable viral load. There are, without a doubt, many things to do, but we will continue to work in the same direction, coordinated with non-governmental organizations, autonomous communities, scientific societies, and the Government of Spain expects you to contribute... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Time's up. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs MeritxELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE MINISTER GOVERNMENT OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT PLANNING THE RELATIONSHIP WITH CATALUONE? [[File number 180/000034]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u28	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u29	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, a model of financing pending renewal since 2013, absence of a Conference of Presidents, nor a bilateral commission, silence to the issues raised by the Government of Catalonia and, of course, no question of silence, such as the renewal of the 1978 coexistence pact; a lost legislature of almost five years. It is true that something has begun to move, but I tell you that efforts are going to have to be capitalized in order to try to change things, and this legislature is an opportunity; it is a good opportunity to incorporate into your daily attitude, that of this Government, the plurality of the country and, above all, to bring the two governments and the societies that they represent closer together in order to reduce the conflict. How do you intend to deal with your Government's relationship with Catalan institutions and society? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u30	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Batet, this government will do so with the search for consensus, within institutional legality, respecting and asking others to respect the constitutional framework of coexistence and to meet the real needs of Catalans, of all Catalans; finally, Your Honor, by dialogue and by much dialogue, especially with your parliamentary group. I think we could talk a lot about the mistakes of the past, of each other, but I would like to draw a single conclusion: when the People's Party and the Socialist Party have worked together, it is when we have succeeded, because on this issue, Mrs Batet, there is no room for equidistance. I hope that you and we will always be in the same place, in respect for the law and in our constitutional framework of coexistence. That is the right environment for dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u33	Thank you, President. We propose to address the substantive issue. It is good to have gone from a policy of fronts to one of gestures, but we must come to the policy of agreements, of actions. The renewal of the territorial agreement through the reform of the Constitution is urgent in Catalonia, we have been insisting for years from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. This parliamentary group is fully aware that State policy requires consensus, even unanimity, but to do so we must work with objectives that are worthwhile from our point of view: the right to live together, the right to build together an exciting project. And for that it is urgent to stop parapetting behind the Constitution and the law and use them to make policy, a policy of dialogue, honest negotiations and, above all, consensus. It cannot be that the Government of Spain does not have a policy, a response, for Catalonia and for the citizens of Catalonia, in the same way that it cannot be that the Government of the Generalitat leaves its citizens without a voice before the organs of the State, such as the Conference of Presidents. That is why, Madam Vice-President, what we are asking of you, what we urge you to do is to work to find political channels to make policy and to give answers. Socialists offer them what we have been defending for years: the reform of the Constitution. Catalans and Catalans deserve it and the whole state deserves it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u34	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Batet, you are proposing a reform of the Constitution here and I would like to say a number of things to you. First of all, that is the way, the democratically correct way, when one proposes to change the framework of coexistence that we have all given ourselves. Secondly, that path, as you know very well and have said, requires consensus. It requires consensus at the point of departure and at the point of arrival, demands that we agree on the diagnosis of problems and also on solutions. I imagine that today in this House we will see different statements on this point. I'd ask you all one thing. The success of the 1978 Constitution, Mrs Batet, which is not a parapet, is our constitutional framework of coexistence that protects everyone, it was that being a product of all, it served to give shelter to all. That's what we have to look for. That's what's called concordia. And only if we maintain the agreement we achieved in 1978 will we succeed in strengthening our model and not weakening it. Otherwise, I will tell you that the Government will work to open channels of dialogue, to widen the channels of dialogue. We have always been concerned about the real needs of Catalans. They have always been on our agenda, Mrs Batet, and you can review what has been done and what we will do. This government, I remind you, is also a government in Catalonia and of all Catalans, Your Honor, because this is about responding to all Catalans. Catalonia is very plural; so plural that it is not only as they see it, but as we are able to see it all and also the whole of the Spaniards, who feel it as a loved and appreciated part. Very good morning. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERRION, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, CAN WE COMMUNISH TO BE IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE MINISTER GOVERNMENT OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PRESENT A REFORM OF THE CONSTITUTION IN THIS LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u36	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u37	In the same vein, Madam Vice-President, is the Government planning to address constitutional reform during this term?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u38	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Errejón, the Spanish Constitution has been reformed twice - I was rapporteur of one of your reforms - and it has been done twice on the legislative initiative of this House. I am telling you this not because the package is leaking, but because I have just heard Mr. Iglesias asking Mr. Rajoy to govern from Parliament. Well, perhaps in this matter, which is a reform of the Constitution, which is part of a legislative initiative of the Courts, you can also do something and stop asking the Government alone; it would be wise for both of you to come home from consensus, because in a reform of the Constitution it is what it is about, to agree, as your partner said, on what we want to reform, on what we want to do it and what the final point is, so that we can achieve a great consensus among all of you. [[Rumors]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Errejón, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u41	I was telling you, Madam Vice-President, because next Tuesday is the thirty-eight year anniversary of the 1978 Constitution and we believe that there will be two great attitudes to this. There is going to be a large group of you who are self-proclaimed constitutionalists who will talk about things that happened forty years ago, will often repeat concordia, will dress in costume, will attend ceremonies and perhaps even Mr Rivera will end up quoting Adolfo Suárez. [[Rumors]] There is going to be another group for which to fundamentally honor the Constitution has to do with updating it for the country we are today and not for which we were forty years ago; updating it and widening it. We say to update and enlarge it because we have the feeling that his Government's policies have tightened the Constitution because they have a narrower idea of Spain. They have tightened the Constitution - at least let me quote three examples - with regard to municipal autonomy and the autonomy of the municipalities. The law of his colleague Montoro is a law against municipal autonomy enshrined in article 137 and it is a law that allows budgets that perfectly fit, like those of Madrid or Barcelona, to be at risk of intervention. You have tightened the Constitution because you have a narrow vision of the Spanish nation and as you are unable to understand plurinationality you have nothing to offer Catalonia beyond threats. You have tightened up the Constitution because when you signed with the Socialist Party the reform of Article 135 so that the payment of interest on the debt would have priority over social expenditure, you left the definition of Spain as a social state in brine water, and a large part of the rights - to employment, to education, to health - contained in Title I are subject to the action of the financial markets and therefore break a fundamental part of the coexistence agreement. Well, that couldn't happen again. When you did that in the summer of 2011 we told you from outside Parliament that you could not do that without consulting the Spanish people. We are here today and we will ensure that a constitutional reform of this kind will never be made again without consulting the Spanish people in a referendum. The question is, do you have anything in mind to get more people into the constitutional agreement to broaden the constitutional agreement? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u42	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Errejon, I have listened to you very carefully and, look, reforming the Constitution is the work of something more than noisy minorities, as you call yourselves, not even transversal majorities. Reforming the Constitution must be a task for all, a task that is often not noisy but much more effective simply because the Constitution - which you are so critical of - must serve to give shelter to all. Although today you have spoken more about ordinary legislation than about the Constitution, I have read and discussed with some of your colleagues what you propose: some change the form of the State; others reform rights, not only expand them but also tighten them, such as freedom of expression, a referendum of self-determination which, in my opinion, is liquidated the essence of the nation itself. The one that you want to enlarge and that I see as great as a nation of free citizens and equal owners exclusive of your sovereignty. Perhaps what you want to do is that Spain looks a little bit more like Unido Podemos, Madrid and its confluences but I think that, simply, Spain is something else: a nation of citizens who aspire to live in freedom, to have the same rights and obligations, to be supportive of each other and to have a little more agreement with each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u44	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE MINISTER GOVERNMENT OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WILL THE GOVERNMENT WITHDRAWING THE SYSTEMATIC PRACTICE OF RECOVERY THE LAWS LEGITIMATELY APPROVED BY THE VASCO AND NAVAR INSTITUTIONS IN COMPLETION WITH THE COMPETITION THAT IS SERVING, EXPRESSING THE VOLUNTRY OF SOCIAL MAJORITY AND THE POLITICAL OF ABOVE COMMONITIES, THE RESOURCES PRESENTED TO THE TIME? [[File number 180/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u45	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, as the appeal of your Government at this new stage to the opening and opening of a new political time marked by dialogue is now customary, we ask you the following question. Will the Government withdraw, abandoning the systematic practice of resorting to the laws legitimately adopted by the Basque and Navarra institutions and in compliance with its powers, expressing the will of the social and political majority of the two autonomous communities, the remedies presented so far?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u47	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u48	Mr Matute García de Jalón, you ask me about the resources in relation to the laws of Basque and Navarra institutions. Do you know why you can ask this question? Because you are a representative of the Spanish people as a whole and as such, even if you are a member of the district of Vizcaya, you can ask about the issues that affect everyone, but they are two distinct autonomous communities with their own institutions, with their own dynamics and with their own legislative activity. With regard to the Basque Country, I will tell you that the Basque Government has resorted on thirty-four occasions to provisions emanating from the Spanish Government and we seventeen provisions from the Basque Government and that our will is to reduce the conflictivity, even to reanalyse whether some of these resources can be negotiated and with the consequent updated changes. With regard to Navarra, you speak of your institutions. Well, I will tell you that the Government of the nation has resorted to fifteen provisions of the Parliament of Navarre which were precisely adopted against certain Navarra institutions, the legal services of its Parliament, of the Government of Navarre, which did not support them - at the time it was chaired by the Navarra People's Union - and of the parliamentary majority, not absolute but broad, existing in that House. Therefore, Mr Matute, it differs in the institutions, because, on the one hand, they are distinct autonomous communities and, on the other hand, they have worked in a different way as well. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Matute, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, don't give me more gallons than I want. I am a representative of a part of Basque citizenship, a Basque citizenship of the Foral Community of Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community in any case, but not a representative of the Spanish people as a whole or of anything like it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u51	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u52	It is paradoxical to us that your willingness to renegotiate, to change the position maintained to date to appeal to decisions taken by the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarra can be handled in the light of the new times, because that may mean that your determination to appeal for alleged legal breach was not so much so if you are willing to renegotiate it now, in the will of a new time. In any case, for people to know the resources we are talking about, they are resources that do not affect the core of the Constitution, to what in a previous response has said was Spanish national sovereignty. They have to do with such things as evictions, health care, health care for immigrants or the regulation of cannabis clubs in the Foral Community of Navarre and in the Basque Autonomous Community and with the prohibition of the extractive practice of fracking in our community or the consideration of the right to housing as a subjective right within our system. All this is what your Government has systematically paralysed, thus denying the possibility that Basque and Navarra citizens can live better, in a more dignified way, they can have some levels of dignity that perhaps you in your Government do not see for your citizens, but we and we would like to and are willing to offer for ours. Finally, I would like to say that perhaps the professor emeritus of the Spanish Supreme Court, Mr Martín Pallín, was right when he said something like this two days ago: There is a tendency, perhaps inherited from forty years of dictatorship, to confuse the rule of law and the rule of law. I'm sorry to have to remind my colleagues that the rule of law is qualified for principles and not...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u54	Mr Matute, you are the representative of the Spanish people, elected by the district of Vizcaya, and I remind you that in Navarre you do not have any representation because there you have not taken a single seat, so if you ask for Navarre you do as representative of the Spanish people. [[Applauds]] If you want, you can ask for Vizcaya everything you want, but in Navarre they have no representation. And so much that you speak of democracy, you respect the decisions of the citizens who live in Navarre, who have decided to organize themselves as an autonomous community, with a law of improvement agreed with the state that we respect. In other words, respect the democracy of others a little more. Mr. Matute, don't see ghosts. These are not identity or social issues. When you resort to provisions of the Government of Spain you do so in defense of your self-government and when the Government resorts to provisions of autonomous communities you do so in defense of the competences you exercise for the benefit of all Spaniards. For this reason, the bilateral commission of article 33 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court meets on occasion... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u55	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN CARLOS CAMPO MORENO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT WILL THE PRIORITIES OF THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE BE AFTER YOU HAVE REJECTED THIS CHALLENGE THE PRINCIPAL MEASURES OF YOUR INVESTIGATION COVENANT IN THIS AREA? [[File number 180/000035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u56	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Campo Moreno, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you enter the government by replacing a minister whose management can well be described as the worst democracy for justice. He was asked to take a look at some of the issues that had caused the most damage to the citizenry. His management soon won the counter-reform qualification. Indeed, he made up the Fees Act, but it was an insufficient makeup, as the Constitutional Court has told you, and do not forget the great frustration that has been generated in our citizenship. With a partial withdrawal, the abortion law was made up and, indeed, it must be put into its existence that it generated a new area of dialogue - tenuous, but dialogue - in the justice sector. But let us not forget that the X Legislature is the legislature of the roller. It is the legislature that will be remembered for issues such as the reviewable permanent prison and the amendment of section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act that, if we do not move carefully, will generate impunity for large criminals. It is the Legislature of Lexnet's Bochorno, a procedural agility mechanism that becomes blush due to its dysfunctionality and that, far from saving paper, is generating the largest purchases in the stationery. It is a legislature that has forgotten the increase of the judicial plant, the modification of the plant and the judicial bodies. It is, in short, a legislature that forgot the citizen. With this new legislature and a pact with Citizens we are presented with a model of justice that has already had the first setback in this House last week. We have already told them that taxation is not a good method, the accession contract is not a good method. That is why, from the Socialist Group, we ask you: Minister, what are the priorities of the nation's government to solve the problems of our misguided administration of justice? Will the focus be on the citizen to give substance to this fundamental right, which is effective judicial protection without undue delay? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u58	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u59	Thank you, President. Mr Campo, as you said, last week, in this House, there was a debate on bringing the general ideas about the reform of justice closer together, and I am left with some of the phrases that you yourself made clear, such as that we have to work in a consensual way, we have to look for agreements and we have to work for the citizen, because we must not forget that at the end of all this the citizen is here. I absolutely buy those approaches and offer you that we start working in that direction. During the 10th Legislature there have been many reforms that have been addressed in this House and in the Senate, and we would not have time in these two and a half minutes to take stock of what has gone well and what has gone less well, because it is true that we do not always agree with our proposals, even if they start from the best good faith. What is certain is that for the future, by reading their electoral programmes and what we have said in the campaign the political parties, it seems that we have clearly identified what needs to be done: we need to speed up our justice, in particular criminal justice; we need to strengthen the democratization and independence of the judiciary; we need to improve the management, on a day-to-day basis, of our Justice Administration, of the State and of the autonomous communities, since there is a shared responsibility in this; we need to work with management tools of the twenty-first century, and we need to continue to improve certain aspects, for example, the strengthening of the right to defence through advocacy and free legal assistance to ensure the effective judicial guardianship of all. It's just a few questions. I will have the opportunity next Monday to appear in the Committee on Justice, as you well know, and there we will have enough time to discuss and share ideas. We want this legislature to be characterized by dialogue, debate, the search for reasonable alternatives and a broad consensus on justice reform. The citizens have been asking for this for a long time and the professionals are asking for it: the judges, the prosecutors, the lawyers and the prosecutors. Right now we have a social demand and a great expectation has been generated, and I assure you that we will not fail to meet that expectation. I hope that with you and with the rest of the groups in the House we will have the opportunity to address those reforms that are so necessary in the justice of the twenty-first century in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Campo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u61	Minister, I was finishing my speech last week by telling you that, if that is the real road they are going to set in motion, you will find the Socialist Parliamentary Group always ready to talk, to confront and to achieve better justice for our citizens, but you have to get to it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u62	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u63	That's what we're on, Mr. Campo. On Monday we meet in the Committee on Justice and we all start working together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u64	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE MEASURES AGAINST CORRUPTION ARE INJUST? [[File number 180/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u65	Question by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u66	Minister, the National Commission on Markets and Competition quantifies the loss of corruption cases in Spain by some 48 billion a year, which is the same amount as the total number of cuts we have experienced from 2009 to 2010. That is to say, corruption not only cuts our rights, but also surrounds democracy. Corruption causes corruption to ultimately send the corrupters and not the citizens. In this regard, we wanted to ask the Minister and the Government itself whether they consider, as the Minister of Education - the Minister of Education himself - that measures against corruption are unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u67	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u68	Thank you, President. Mr Domènech, I think we all agree that corruption is a real scourge in any society and in particular in democratic societies. Therefore, everyone's commitment to the fight against corruption has to be an axis that absolutely sets out our lines of action, our policies and we have done so during the past parliamentary term. During the 10th Legislature we have brought to this House and adopted a series of reforms that demonstrate the commitment of the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government of Mariano Rajoy in this direction. It is also true that, apart from the point of view of democratic values, it also has a serious economic impact on our economy. I therefore assure you that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group are firmly committed to the fight against corruption. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u70	I believe that, given the scale of what we are experiencing in cases of corruption, good words are not enough. In fact, the facts are imposed, and in fact, I believe that for the first time, and without precedent, I agree with your Minister of Education. In other words, the anti-corruption policies of this Government are unfair to the extent that this Government pardons corrupt members of the People's Party, the PSOE or Democratic Unity. They are unfair to the extent that this Government refuses, as it refused in May 2015, to put an end to pardons for corruption. They are unfair to the extent that you, just before losing the absolute majority, are making a reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which is called the final point law for judges and prosecutors. Never did so many judges and prosecutors agree against a reform that was made just when the means of judges and prosecutors were cut off to end corruption. Therefore, we certainly agree. The anti-corruption policies you do are unfair, they are words, they are not facts, because the facts contradict everything you can say in this regard. And it is normal because, honestly, you are the champions of corruption and not just because of the multitude of cases - Gürtel, Taula, Palma Arena - but because, moreover, you, in an unprecedented fact in the history of democracy in this country - and I would say about the history of Western and European democracies - your party, all of it, is accused of corruption. Therefore, you will not be the solution when you are part of the problem or are directly the problem. To put an end to corruption means to put an end to unjust pardons, to the same institution of pardons for corruption, to put an end to corruption... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u71	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. I very much agree with you, it takes facts and not words, and facts are the laws that this Parliament has passed, on a proposal and with the exclusive vote of the People's Parliamentary Group, for political parties to have transparent funding and to be held accountable - something that had not happened before - for whoever made it to pay it and to pay up to the last euro with the creation of an asset recovery office, to increase penalties in the Criminal Code, for there to be a law on transparency, which had never been in Spain, and which exists because it was promoted by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government of Mariano Rajoy. All these are the facts with which we believe our commitment to the fight against corruption. In the meantime, others have not voted on these laws, nor are any good actions known to them at this time. Today, a public office condemned for corruption cannot go on electoral lists, before it could. Today, political parties have criminal responsibility and before that they did not have it. All these are facts that have been promoted by the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party. Your Honor, whenever you want, we can share information about pardons. Not a single pardon has granted this Government in terms of convictions for corruption - not a single pardon at all - in the same way that the Criminal Prosecution Act is not a final law but has made it possible to speed up our justice. I am sure that you too find it very good that the causes - over 300,000 - that were embalmed, could have been dealt with in less than six months and brought our justice up to date in that regard. It is the People's Party that has promoted during the 10th Legislature all these reforms, all these anti-corruption measures and, therefore, no doubt about the commitment, our commitment... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT, MARTA MARTÍN LLAgunO, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHEN DOES YOU THINK TO IMPLEMENT THE LEGISLATIVE REFORMS NEEDED TO INCORPORATE OUR CIVIL CODE THE CUSTODY SHALL SHARE AS MOST DESIRABLE MODALITY IN THE CASE OF SEPARATION OR DIVORCE? [[File number 180/000031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u74	Question also addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mrs Marta Martín Llaguno, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Catalá, I would like to bring to this House and to you as Minister of Justice the urgency of the need to regulate shared custody throughout the national territory. The year 2005 had been introduced into the Civil Code and it was true that, from the rulings of the Supreme Court and of many courts and judges, this formula was increasingly being implemented, but it was also true that it was not yet the preferred formula and that only one in four divorces used it. It is also true that the rise in the formula of shared custody responds in large part to the existence of autonomous laws that have existed in the Valencian Community, in Navarre or in Aragon and I, who are precisely from the Valencian Community, was listening this week to how the Constitutional Court has annulled the Law of Shared Custody for invading state powers. Situations of inequality are taking place, not only with the citizens of the territories, but especially with the minors. Therefore, I urge you to urgently regulate shared custody throughout the national territory. And I urge you to do so for two fundamental reasons: firstly, to comply with the European Charter on the Rights of the Child, which says that children, minors, have the right to enjoy their parents on equal terms and also that parents have the obligation to share the duties and responsibility for the education of minors. But I also urge you to do so on a gender equality issue from a Europeanist point of view so that we understand equality between men and women by eradicating sexist stereotypes and giving equal opportunities and treatment. Minister, our agreement, the investiture agreement, provides in point 68 - and I read literally - that the Government - your Government - has committed itself to promoting the legal reforms necessary to incorporate in our Civil Code shared custody as the most desirable modality, making always prevail the best interests of the child, collecting the doctrine of the Supreme Court and following the guidelines of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. When do you plan to push for the necessary legal reforms to incorporate shared custody into our Civil Code...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u76	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u77	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I agree absolutely; here is the agreement that we have signed and, among the 150 measures, our commitment to develop the regulatory projects that make shared custody the most common modality on this issue. That is our commitment and we stand by it absolutely. We are aware of the agreements that we have reached and of the obligations that entail, moreover, we sign the things that we sign with full conscience and therefore we do not find it difficult to fulfil it; we are comfortable in that statement. During the past time we have worked in this direction, we have known the autonomous legislation, we are aware of the rulings that the Supreme Court is issuing and we are convinced that we must walk around because it is the most balanced way of reconciling the interests of ex-spouses and, above all, the interests of children, which must always be put forward. It is true that shared custody can be a good way to guarantee the rights of the child - not in all cases, not always, will depend on the circumstances - and therefore that the legal reform, the reform of the Civil Code walks in that direction seems to us to be a good way. Having said that, you are well aware of the social interests, the conflicts, the different representation of society in this area, and I would therefore like to use your question to ask you and the other groups in the House to work together; the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group are going to move in that direction. It would be very useful if we had a great deal of agreement, unanimity, if possible, on this issue because there are discrepancies in society and we will therefore have to work in this direction. It also seems to me that this is not just a law approach. The law will help us, the law can guide us in this direction, the law will set a criterion that the courts will apply, but social debate is needed. Therefore, a reflection on the rights of minors and on the rights of parents should also be promoted in the whole of Spanish society. In the debates - and we have had many meetings - generally all parties have their share of reason and, therefore, the most balanced relationship will be one that will ultimately make shared custody a normal relationship in our country. That is why, for us, we are already beginning to work on this issue, we are presenting a first draft or draft law and, from there, we will regulate this issue as is being demanded by broad sectors of Spanish society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AVELIN OF BARRIONEUVO GENER, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PROMOTE THE INSTRUMENT OF MEDIA IN THE TRANSFORMATION OF JUSTICE PRESENT? [[File number 180/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u79	He also asked the Minister of Justice, Mr Avelino de Barrionuevo Gener, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, mediation is a complementary channel to conflict resolution, a valid and accepted formula in the rule of law that conforms to a new reality in justice, while it is a new conception of justice that is a relevant piece in the modernization of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a wide range of areas in which mediation successfully projects its peacemaking potential as a tool complementary to traditional solutions of having to go to a court or a court. In the People's Parliamentary Group we believe it is necessary to bet on a model of justice that incorporates mediation as a form of conflict management and as a means of disseminating a culture of quality justice. Mediation, as a public service and as a measure of social policy, fosters dialogue and values such as tolerance, cooperation, the active participation of society, solidarity and bringing justice closer to citizenship, all of which are essential elements in order to effectively, promptly, economically and equitably resolve the conflicts of a twenty-first century society. Mediation thus satisfactorily meets the requirements for being seen as a social policy because it encourages the active participation of citizens in conflict resolution, because it prevents the emergence of new conflicts and especially because it strengthens the social fabric and re-education, and the strengthening of structures for the establishment of a culture of peace. We know that in the previous legislature there have been many efforts made by mediation, we know that Law 5/2012 on mediation in civil and commercial matters has been adopted, and my question, Minister, is: What measures has the Government planned to continue to promote and promote the instrument of mediation in the transformation of justice? Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u81	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u82	Thank you, President. Mr Barrionuevo, for us, for the Ministry of Justice, for the Government, is one of the key pieces of how to understand the resolution of conflicts in our society, as I have said before, to strengthen the jurisdictional system without doubt, to strengthen our justice, but also to advance in the systems of conflict self-composition, of seeking dialogue, of concerted solutions, and there mediation has a fundamental role. Reducing litigation in itself is a good goal, but certainly promoting a culture in the whole of Spanish society around the agreement, the search for agreed and not necessarily contentious solutions also seems to me to be a good axis of work for the future. That is why this House passed Law 5/2012, which gives us sufficient and adequate policy tools, without prejudice to the possibility of promoting some small reform based on experience. Therefore, I do not think that what remains for us is so much a question of adopting a new law or of equipping ourselves with more normative instruments, we need to work more in the cultural sphere, to create opinion. And for that, what can we do? We think that information campaigns must be carried out and the role of professionals is very important: lawyers, prosecutors, all professionals who want and are already working on mediation, so that from professional corporations, from schools, this solution is transferred to citizens as a possible and even desirable solution. There, too, the autonomous communities themselves, the institutions and the General Council of the Judiciary have a great role to play. We will work to enhance intra-judicial mediation and there are some professionals, such as the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, who have competences in this area. Nor do I rule out the fact that we can improve the legislative framework, for example, when we can incorporate the mandatory information sessions that a judge can agree to and, therefore, it is mandatory to participate in this situation. Today there are 2,500 mediators in Spain, 1,350 competitive mediators in the register constituted by the Ministry of Justice. We have taken steps in that direction and it seems to me that working, as we have said, on mediation is to strengthen democratic values, values of dialogue and a new culture in Spanish society. We will therefore be committed to this throughout this parliamentary term. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u83	Thank you very much. - OF MR MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT WANT TO ABOVE THE QUESTION OF THE TERMS OF THE LOIOLA ROOMS WITH DONOSTY ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE A BETTER URBANISTIC DEVELOPMENT OF THE CITY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000043]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u84	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence, Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister of Defense, I take this first opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment and to raise one of the most important issues that the City of Donosti, San Sebastián, has. As you know, because of its geographical location and despite being a relatively small city, it has a great shortage of territory suitable for its urban development, which leads to the exodus of many of its younger citizens when they emancipate themselves to settle in surrounding municipalities, a problem that is aggravated by being a city with a good rate of economic growth, which also pushes for its expansion. In this scenario, the Vega del Urumea is the main resource for its extension; it is one of the few flat territories located in the urban plot, well communicated and with a quality environment. For this reason, the development of the Vega del Urumea is the main urban stake of the city and, within the Vega del Urumea, some facilities of the Ministry of Defence, known as the Loiola barracks, with about 17 hectares, are prominent, ideal for the creation of a new district of mixed use, sustainable, modern and quality, with more than 1,600 houses and with a compatible economic activity. These barracks were built in 1925 on lands ceded by the city hall next to the Urumea River, which have now become somewhat obsolete and absorbed by the urban plot, so their location is not considered optimal and, in addition, it has defence capabilities, apparently and in the opinion of the consistory, far inferior to the facilities it occupies. Madam Minister, at various times since 2003, the city's consistory has been directed to the ministry that you lead by taking an interest in the barracks, in order to initiate negotiations for the acquisition of the land that you occupy and, where appropriate, the relocation and relocation of military facilities to another place, but for different reasons the talks have not begun. That is why I ask you, Minister: Does the Government have the will to address the question of the land of the Loiola barracks with the Donosti City Council, in order to achieve a better urban development of the city to match the needs and interests of your department? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u86	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Legarda, for your words. Your Honor, the Ministry of Defence and this minister who speaks to you, we fully intend to speak with parties and institutions in everything that is good for the interests of Spain and national defence. I know that you know that I have instructed the Director General of Infrastructures of the Ministry of Defence to make it available to the Mayor of San Sebastian and in this way we can open a dialogue on this issue. I also have to ask you, frankly, that Loiola's quartering today is considered, in its dimensions and characteristics, indispensable and necessary for the interests of national defence. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u88	Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u89	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u90	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u91	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would like to reiterate the willingness of this ministry and, in particular, this minister to engage in dialogue. We will talk to the mayor of San Sebastián and the municipal corporation of San Sebastián to try to reach agreements that are convenient for both administrations. I must also reiterate to you that Loyola barracks, with the characteristics, infrastructure and extension they have today, are necessary and priority for national defence and are fulfilling their objective in the preparation, accommodation and management of the units intended there. But I'm committed to two things here and now, Your Honor. Firstly, that we can reach agreements with the City of San Sebastián. Previously, proposals have been made by the city council, as in the case of Antondegi, who knows his lordship that they were unsuccessful because they were not valid, but I pledge that the Spanish Armed Forces may continue to have their home and residence in the city of San Sebastián for a long time. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u92	Thank you very much. - OF THE DAUGHTER'S WOMEN'S ANA MARIA BOTELLA GOMEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT ARE THE GOVERNMENT'S PROVISIONS WITH REGARD TO THE ARRANGEMENT OF BUDGETARY STABILITY OBJECTIVES, PUBLIC DEBT AND NON-FINANCIAL GASTO LIMITS? [[File number 180/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u93	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. First of all, by Mrs Ana María Botella Gómez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u94	Thank you, President. Minister for Finance and Public Service, what are the Government's forecasts for the agreement setting the budgetary stability targets for 2017 and what measures do they intend to take to ensure that they are met? What interests us most and worries us is whether fiscal consolidation for 2017 by the government can involve cuts in the welfare state. Thank you. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u95	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent and to occupy your seats or, if not, to leave the Chamber. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I can assure you that the government's project does not involve reductions in welfare expenditure or virtually nothing in the category of public expenditure. What we are going to promote this same afternoon in the National Commission of Local Administration and tomorrow in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council are the first steps in the budgetary cycle, including the definition of the objectives of our territorial administrations and of the General Administration of the State and of Social Security. We will go to these councils to convince about the opportunity to reduce the public deficit within the path we have agreed with the European institutions, but also to be convinced. Our attitude will therefore be very receptive to the needs and opportunities presented to us by the territorial administrations. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Botella.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u98	Thank you, President. Minister, I welcome your change of attitude, but understand our concern. I'm going to tell you briefly what happened so we can settle down. We come from a legislature in which you, at a time of maximum impoverishment of Spanish society, have not hesitated to give tax gifts to higher incomes and large corporations. I'll give you an example. In the last half year you have not hesitated to give - I insist - about 1.5% of GDP to the highest incomes. This amounts to EUR 15 billion. With one hand they are giving those 15 billion euros and with the other hand they are taking out of the pension reserve fund about 50 billion euros, which is what the fund has and what it produces. He will understand our concern and that we now have to look forward, but knowing where we come from. I would also like to remind you of all the violations that you have been making to the European Commission, which have been a cause for concern, irritation and at many times of chasm for the image of the Government of Spain, to the point that no one is now creating the accounts that the Government of Spain has been sending each year. Mr Montoro, the balance sheet of those four years of systematic - I insist - non-compliance with the objectives of deficit, debt, expenditure rule, expenditure ceiling, lead us to a very basic conclusion, which I think you know: your policy of budgetary stability is not leading to a policy of budgetary stability. So - I insist - agree, negotiate. I think very well your attitude, especially for one question: Spanish society, which is behind all those great numbers that you handle, needs answers and we can no longer expect any more of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u99	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u100	Thank you, Madam President. With the very shortness of this control session, Mrs Botella, we are starting the XII Legislature and, with great pleasure, we can discuss the previous one from the previous one, I am at your disposal; I am pleased to do so, I repeat, but also with the figures in hand, because the reduction we have made of taxes you have encrypted it in nothing less than 15 billion euros, and it is not true, it was 9,000 and to the average and low incomes of Spain, so there is growth and there is consumption. And we also did it to businesses, and especially to the self-employed and to small and medium-sized enterprises, so they are growing and investing. But let's go to what we're going to, which is the 12th Legislature. We are proposing to take the necessary steps to achieve the deficit targets that are right for Spain. And that, I'm going to tell you clearly, we can't do it without you. Let's build this XII Legislature together. You govern half of the autonomous communities of Spain, you govern much of the local corporations of Spain and, therefore, in a legislature with a minority government, the only way to implement any policy, and of course the budgetary policy of the State, is, we say, through dialogue. No, not only of dialogue, but of reaching the conclusion of dialogue. We will therefore agree, and I am sure that your group will also work together, to strengthen economic recovery and job creation. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON ANTONIO ROLDÁN MONÉS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS YOUR VALUATION ON THE BUDGETS FOR THE YEAR 2017? [[File number 180/000032]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u101	Question by Mr Antonio Roldán Monés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u102	Good morning, President. Mr Montoro, in this question I wanted to take the time to reflect on it. In the agreement that we signed three or four months ago by the Government and Citizens, we had three major priorities. The first was to change the direction of this country's growth model - or to lay the foundations for that change -, betting on education, betting on a more stable labour market and betting on innovation. The second was to move forward with the social problems we have: reversing social cuts in education, health care and dependency. And the third big point of the deal was to take a clear turn and end the tax hikes to the big middle class. You promised not to raise the IRPF, not to raise the VAT. My question is very simple: do you undertake, Mr Montoro, not to make more cuts in health, not to make more cuts in dependence? Do you undertake, as signed in the agreement, to save 1 billion in doubles? Right now, French President François Fillon's candidate says he's going to save 100 billion. We have agreed 1 billion simply in doubles and political bubbles. Do you also undertake not to raise taxes to the middle class and working class and not to raise the IRPF, as you did - with the largest increase - in the last legislature and not to raise VAT? Do you undertake not to cut across all key future items to change this growth model and move towards a knowledge-based economy based on education and innovation?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u103	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u104	Thank you, Madam President. As I have just said in relation to the Socialist Group, the participation of the Citizens' Group is absolutely fundamental in this parliamentary term. You are a party, a new political formation in this House, but absolutely fundamental to government action and political stability in Spain and, ultimately, to define those objectives. It's not that I'm engaged as a minister, it's that we're not in that anymore. Let's see, today, year 2016, the public administrations in Spain spent 5 billion more on health than in 2007. I mean, we've already raised spending on health care. What we need to do then is to accommodate that health expenditure to the growth of the economy so that it does not exceed it and that effective and efficient public management of public services is done. That's already happening. Today we are spending the same amount on education as in 2007. And already in the past years we have returned to the downfall of the IRPF which unfortunately we had to climb in 2012, when we found ourselves with a much higher public deficit than we expected; in short, we received that inheritance. Now is the time to build and I want to agree with you on commitments that, frankly, are not commitments, we are not in that. If we are to strengthen economic recovery, to make Spain a model of economic growth that creates jobs, stable jobs and quality, and of increasing quality, to make an economy increasingly competitive, to make a public administration increasingly modern, to be able to save on its management and to offer a more efficient service to citizens. That is the compromise and that is the agreement with Citizens as we must understand it. Also promote a tax reduction in the next legislature. The legislature is starting, this is the first year. I would also like to invite you, within your characteristics and conditions, obviously to commit yourselves to something I have not heard from you, Mr Roldán: with the reduction of the public deficit, according to the path we have agreed with the European Commission. This is absolutely essential for economic recovery and job creation in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u105	Mr. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u106	Thank you. Not only are we absolutely committed to reducing the public deficit from 4.6 to 3.1 as we committed ourselves to the agreement, but we also signed it and proposed measures to achieve that goal. That is precisely why in the agreement we signed - perhaps you are not in agreement with that agreement - there were 5 billion increases in spending and 5 billion savings and minimum increases in corporation tax so that that could be met. I insist, are you willing to comply with that agreement? And, please, I would ask you to give me a little more concreteness, if you can, of the twofold savings measures. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u107	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u108	Yes, I agree. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] - OF JUAN JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MATARÍ SÁEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ADOPTE TO CONTINUATE THE IMPLEMENTING OF E-ADMINISTRATION IN SPAIN, IN PARTICULAR BETWEEN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND SECURITY? [[File number 180/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u109	Question by Mr Juan José Matarí Sáez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, offering citizens the opportunity to engage in e-government via the Internet has been and is undoubtedly one of the main objectives of the People's Party Government in the task of modernising our country's public services. In recent years, many initiatives and measures have been put in place to promote the development of e-government and have been carried out through and through the Government's actions within the framework of the Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations. Among these initiatives and measures I can mention, for example, the SARA network for the interconnection of all administrations; the platform for data brokering so that citizens do not have to provide again and again the same document that already works in the hands of the Administration; the common electronic register; the registration of electronic invoices, which has undoubtedly made a great progress in reducing the lateness and in ensuring the collection of invoices to suppliers - more than 12 million electronic invoices issued by 126,000 suppliers since January 2015-; the telematic communication of births, which has already allowed more than 70,000 children to be registered by this system, or the electronic prescription, which has made 99% of the prescriptions issued in Spain already electronic. I would also like to emphasise, Minister, because it is very important that the state has made its computer systems available to the autonomous communities and local authorities, which undoubtedly means reducing costs and avoiding duplicate costs. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest United Nations study on e-government says that Spain is today the seventh largest country in the world in online services and citizen e-participation. Mr Minister, after a parliamentary term in which this great impetus has taken place, we are, in the view of the Group of the European People's Party, closer to that great objective of having a fully electronic administration and, thereby, a more efficient, closer, more transparent and cheaper administration, with significant savings for businesses and citizens. I therefore ask you, Mr Montoro, what steps does the Government intend to take to further advance the implementation of the eGovernment in Spain? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u111	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Matarí, first of all I would like to thank you for the approach and content of your question. The Government has promoted the Digital Administration within the Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations, one of whose essential axes has been precisely the commitment of an electronic Administration materialized in numerous projects. In this regard, I would like to announce this morning that the reform projects of the Administration are not exhausted with those we have already carried out in the X Legislature. This ministry will coordinate the implementation of new measures in a new plan to boost and transform public administration for the period 2017-2019. We would thus continue the CORA Plan in the areas of public governance reform, new technologies, public employment and rationalisation of public sector structures, with a savings impact of €900 million for 2017. We are talking about a process, the digitization of the Administration, which undoubtedly has limits still far away. We have a lot of capacity to develop it. I'll give you some examples. Today, sixteen of the 17 autonomous communities and more than 8,000 local entities are affiliated to the FACE electronic billing system, which is compatible with all public administration and business systems. As far as the year goes, around 2 billion 625,000 invoices have been sent through this system, saving €13 million for citizens and businesses. Moreover, as your honor has pointed out, it is also managed with greater rigour and clarity. On the other hand, I would also like to highlight to you the system of exchange of records, to which there are thousands of local entities and fifteen integrated autonomous communities. All of this allows us to have a better and more efficient intercom administration at the service of the citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u113	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Esther Peña Camarero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which expresses to the Minister of the Interior: do you believe that the Government is acting in the matter of refugees with responsibility? AND SOLIDARITY? [[File number 180/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u114	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Esther Peña Camarero from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u115	Thank you, President. Minister of the Interior, shame is the word: shame the agreement with Turkey, shame the auction of human lives and shame the management of your government. Yes, a government that has not yet welcomed even 4% of the refugees it has agreed to host with the European Union; shame that makes us feel all Spaniards, whose communities and municipalities are waiting to exercise that solidarity that you deny by denying it to the refugees themselves and also by denying it to the European partners who welcome them with difficulty. Do you really believe that your Government acts with responsibility and solidarity in managing the refugee problem? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u116	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the face of the migration crisis that the European Union and Spain are experiencing, I can assure you that I am ashamed to have heard these statements from you, but I will tell you that the Government is being responsible, I do not doubt, for the demand for solidarity that thousands of people have been making for us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u118	Mrs. Peña.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u119	Minister, it is not enough for you to manage your Government, which you have done so far is to agree on quotas and sit back and wait. Where are the awareness campaigns? How many humanitarian visas have you offered? How many scholarships for students? How many family reunions? Of the more than 17,000 people committed to hosting, this Government has only resettled or relocated some 700 people. With such solidarity and responsibility, it would take twenty-six years, not two, to fulfil their obligation. If rather than humanitarian commitments were economic debts, it would certainly not allow such flagrant breaches. So no, Mr Zoido, it is neither solidarity nor responsibility to pass a law that protects hot returns and prevents the application for international protection in Spanish territory. It is not responsible for a Government that is keeping in a drawer during the last parliamentary term an asylum regulation that needs to be adopted. Minister, do you undertake to approve it? Keep your word and bring in the people who committed themselves. Increase the budget in cooperation and integration, and stand in front of the mirror of Spanish society, of those volunteers and volunteers who work here, but also do so in the territories in conflict by playing life. That is responsibility, and that is solidarity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u120	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u121	Mrs Peña, I am convinced that Spanish society, like all those of us who sit in this House, have very clear feelings towards those people who have to leave their countries fleeing, do not have the slightest doubt. But I am still surprised by these statements by you being part of a party that has had to govern this country for many years and that knows the great responsibilities that have also been assumed from an international point of view. He's going to let me remind him that Spain is solidarity and he's showing it. And it will also allow me to remind you of the great migration crisis that is taking place in Spain but also in the European Union. By giving you some figures I will tell you - without forgetting that behind those cold numbers there is always some person - that there have been 14,713 requests that we have had in Spain for international protection, of which 5,500 were Syrians, and they have been in the year 2016, approximately 15,000. These magnitudes tell us that we have to function, of course, as a government with responsibility and solidarity, but at the same time effectively and knowing that we have to implement the commitments and decisions that are being taken within the framework and within the Councils of the European Union. Mrs Peña, I ask you to continue to be responsible for making such statements. I am holding my hand, as we are going to reach out to all the Members who have gone, and the other day I have already received a request so that we can see each other and share what some Members have been able to see there. But let me tell you, when you say that the budgets must be raised, that they have been raised, because there is no doubt that 105 % has been raised in international protection, but we have also significantly increased the personal and material resources of the Asylum and Refugee Office. And I will remind you of one thing: despite the difficulties that arise in each and every country of origin, it has already been 400 people who have been relocated, 350 from Greece, 50 coming also from Italy. And to all this we have to incorporate others, those that come... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u122	Minister, time is up. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTOR IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA FORMULATE THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL HUMAN RIGHTS BE RECOGNIZED IN THE CIES, IN PARTICULAR THE RIGHT NOT TO BE SUBMITTED TO BAD TREATMENTS OR TORTURES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3 OF ECHR? [[File number 180/000041]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u123	Question by Mrs Irene María Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the question is very specific: are human rights violated in detention centres for foreigners, and specifically the right not to be subjected to ill-treatment or torture, which is set out in Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u125	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u126	You were able to check the other day on the visit that human rights are not violated or torture occurs in the CIEs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u127	Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u128	Look, minister: I'm a shitty old man; I'm a sweaty man; in your country you don't eat, you take the leftovers, they're some verbal mistreatments that, according to CIE's judge of control, Don Ramiro García, are happening to the inmates. There may be no data on torture or ill-treatment and there may be no convictions for not being investigated, as said by this same supervisory judge. Look, the European Court of Human Rights has sentenced Spain eight times, costing the Spaniards 155,000 euros, for not investigating torture. And the supervisory judge himself, Mr Ramiro García, makes it clear that it is difficult to investigate torture and ill-treatment, first because inmates often cannot report because they are afraid or do not know the procedures, and second because when they report they are immediately deported or released, which finally makes it difficult for them to investigate. We are very concerned about what has happened and you know that after the last protests at the CIE in Aluche there has been a complaint of ill-treatment. I'm going to quote what this judge of control of the CIE of Aluche, Ramiro García, says. I quote literally: It is a fallacy that human rights are not violated in the CIE; the mere fact of depriving a person of liberty for an administrative offence, such as a traffic fine, the mere fact of depriving a person of liberty for an administrative offence, which is not a criminal offence, constitutes in itself a violation of human rights. But there are also cases like that of Samba Martine, who died after asking ten times for medical assistance on which the Madrid Provincial Court itself said that that death could have been avoided. In the time I have left, I ask you two questions and one recommendation. The two questions are: Who are responsible for what happens in foreign detention centres? Are you going to end the opacity and let the media and the press in our country enter the detention centres? And the recommendation is very simple. The CIEs are ineffective centers, cost us 8.8 million euros and more than half of the people - our neighbours and neighbors - that we intern are finally not deported, so let's change the immigration policy, focus on managing diversity in our country and close the CIEs. The only CIE that respects human rights, Minister, is the one that is closed. For the closure of the IECs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u129	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u130	It is clear, Your Honor, that neither you nor your political formation are in favour of the existence of the CIEs, but the truth is that it is proving that the CIEs are an effective and necessary instrument for interning those persons who must then be expelled as a result of judicial decisions. [[Mrs. Montero Gil makes negative signs]] It will allow me to tell you that it is a necessary instrument and that is what is provided for in European legislation and also in Spanish legislation. Last week I had the opportunity to say in this House that we have one of the most secure systems in the European Union, fortunately, because I am one of the convinced - like my group - that the guarantee of rights and freedoms must be preserved permanently. It is curious, the maximum stay limit in our country is sixty days, much lower than that of the countries in our environment. We have an occupation rate of 42.40 % and in recent years the average stay has been reduced, but income has also fallen. Look, what opacity is there when twenty-six Members of this House were able to visit the CIE last November 2nd? I think we are going to continue with a policy of transparency and I am holding your hand to give you all the explanations you consider necessary. Ask who's responsible. Those responsible are in the Ministry of the Interior and have no doubt that the actions that need to be corrected will be corrected. Nor is there any doubt that we will continue to work to improve the facilities of the IECs every day, from the point of view of their facilities but also from the point of view of the personal media. We're studying it. The other day I announced that a protocol is being examined to see what measures we need to take. That's where we're gonna meet. I insist, so far it is proving to be an effective means and what we have to do is improve it and perfect it. You have no doubt that you will soon be able to have and analyse various changes to be made, which I am sure you will not be pleased with because you do not believe in the CIEs or many times in the application of Community law. [[Mrs Montero Gil: In the CIEs, no, in Community law, yes.]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONOR FERRAN BEL ACCENSI, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONCERN THE NETWORK TRANSFER AND RODAL COMPETITIONS TO THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNY, AS A MORE EFFECTIVE OPTION, BETWEEN THE CRONIC COMPLETION OF COMMITMENTS BY THE STATE IN THIS BASIC NETWORK OF TRANSPORT? [[File number 180/000025]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u131	Question to the Minister for Development of Mr Ferran Bel Accensi of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u132	Good morning, Minister. He will allow me on his own behalf and on behalf of my group, first of all, to congratulate him on his appointment and wish him luck and success, as he had in other responsibilities. Today we want to talk about the situation of the Rodalies in Catalonia. I am not going to describe the chaotic situation, nor am I going to talk about the defaults in investments, but I ask you one thing, Minister, if you are going to answer me as you answered my colleague last week, Mr Alonso, check his sources, come to Catalonia and know what the real situation of Rodalies is. My question is very specific, does the government carry out the transfer of the network and Rodalies' competences to the Generalitat of Catalonia in an integral way? And in case of a negative response, what is your alternative? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u133	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Mr Bel. What the Government envisages is to continue with the boost to investments in transport services and infrastructure in Catalonia, to which the Ministry of Development has dedicated 11,200 million euros since 2012 in the General Budgets of the State. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u136	Minister, your Government's lack of commitment to the conventional rail network is reflected in the budget. 2016 budget for the Spanish State as a whole: investment in railway infrastructure, EUR 4.3 billion; investment in the conventional network, with the exception of ADIF High Speed, EUR 630 million, only 14%. With the situation in Catalonia they cannot say that they will continue to invest, because I have to remind them that of the 4 billion investments of the Barcelona Plan of closeness 2008-2015 they only executed 10%. And of the agreement with Councillor Vila, which was signed in 2013, on investments necessary and urgent for close proximity -306 million euros -, currently only 4.1% of works in service have been executed. Therefore, Minister, do not tell us that they will do the same as they have done because that generates indignation, as well as it generates indignation to hear that Spain will have the most modern fleet of high-speed trains: 760 million euros invested in fifteen trains, which is 25% more of all investment... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u137	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. This is the table of the reality of things, the table of the liquidation of the budget in the year 2015: investment in roads, railways, ports, all modes of transport of the Generalitat, 522 million euros; investment of the State in Catalonia, more than 1.6 billion euros, that is, three times more than what the Generalitat itself is investing. It gives the impression for your intervention that here the Generalitat has nothing to do with when you know perfectly well that since 2009 the competences of the Rodalies service in schedules, frequencies, prices or commercial policy fall entirely to the Generalitat and we have those of developing infrastructures of the railway network of general interest. This is not because it seems good or bad to the Government, but because it is covered by the Railway Sector Act as essential ways to ensure a common rail transport system, necessary for the proper functioning of the system, among other things to raise international connections or link with different autonomous communities. So what this government contemplates is nothing other than enforcing the law - I'm sure you'll understand that. And I would like to reiterate to you that more than 40% of the state's investment in the country as a whole is made - I mean closeness - in Catalonia. At the moment we have important investments in progress. Mr Bel, you and I have been sitting on the same side of the table for a very long time in the national commissions of the local administration defending Spanish municipalism. We never ask for more skills, but for more equipment to be more efficient and that is what I propose to you, that we work together, that we reach an agreement on a new Rodalies plan and that we provide a better service among all in a coordinated way, that is for sure what the Catalans really care about. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u139	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARY OF CARMEN GONZALEZ GUINDA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE RITLE OF REDUCTION OF THE ABANDON RATES SCHOOL TIME TO ACCORD WITH THE LAST OFFICIAL DATA GOVERNED BY THE INE? [[File number 180/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u140	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, by Mrs María del Carmen González Guinda, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, staying in the education system beyond compulsory education and successfully completing the post-compulsory secondary education stage is considered by the European and OECD countries to be the minimum level necessary to achieve a satisfactory and competitive position in today's world of work. Reaching this educational level by our young people is transcendental to their future. Those who do not complete it face serious difficulties in gaining access to the world of work and when they do, they receive lower wages and are at increased risk of social exclusion. A quality education is one that allows us to ensure that our pupils do not abandon the education system, one that seeks to lower the early school drop-out rate which, as you well know, Minister, has reached up to 30% in past years. The education policies of the People's Party have and have always had among their priorities the objectives of the European Union's 2020 education and training strategy, which are among other things to achieve a 15% drop-out rate by 2020. At the moment, a moment of consensus, it was precisely you, Minister, who offered from the first minute a great state pact for education. In this regard, the parliamentary groups have already agreed on the future creation of an Education Sub-Committee for the elaboration of a major social and political state pact to achieve the educational objectives set out in the above-mentioned European Education and Training 2020 strategy. Therefore, knowing the great importance for all parliamentary groups of the reduction of the aforementioned rate, I ask you, Minister, how the Government appreciates the rate of reduction of the early school drop-out rate according to the latest official data released by the National Institute of Statistics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u142	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u143	Madam President, Your Honor, you highly value them. For the reasons you said, the drop-out rate was one of the major concerns of the Spanish education system. In 2011, it reached 26.4%, that is, one in four students, when leaving compulsory basic education, did not go back to school. That has enormously damaging consequences, especially in times of crisis, but also for their economic and social inclusion. Therefore, the fact that we have dropped it almost 7 points in this period of time and that Spain has managed to be the second lowest country is a satisfaction for all Members of this House. [[Applauds]] I take advantage of the time I have left, Madam President, to say that, in addition to the good news in the school drop-out rate, yesterday we had another important news. The results of the TIMSS report say that we have raised 23 points in mathematical competition and 18 points in science competition. Therefore, our students are already above the OECD average. This is a great advantage. That is why, when we are going to commit that social and political state pact to education, we have to take into account what we have done not to overthrow everything, to build on what we are doing. I would especially like to take advantage of my speech in this House to thank the teachers and teachers, who are really in our educational system every day, for helping us to improve the dropout rate and also the improvement of our students. Therefore, we will count on them in this social and political pact for education in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u144	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GONZALEZ TEROL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT VALUE DOES THE GOVERNMENT DO ON THE NATIONAL PLAN OF INTELLIGENT CITIES? [[File number 180/000029]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u145	Question to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. Question by Mr Antonio González Terol, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, as you know, the digitisation of the economy, understood as the application of information and communication technologies to the entire production cycle, is a global reality. He knows that digitization increases the competitiveness of countries and economies. Applied to public administrations, it increases efficiency and efficiency in the provision of public services and makes them more accessible to citizens. This is what is done in the so-called digital cities, which are cities that integrate ICT into their work routines that, on the one hand, improve the quality of life of citizens and ensure sustainable economic, social and environmental development with measures such as telemanagement in urban irrigation or in public lighting; on the other hand, they have great potential for creating wealth and employment, since it is estimated that a market of $1.5 trillion can be generated by 2020 in this sector. For these social and economic reasons, the Government of the nation, with the support of political forces, promotes the digital economy and the transformation of our cities into digital cities and does so through the National Plan of Smart Cities, launched in March 2015, which has made us a world leader and aims to promote the improvement of public services and a technology industry of its own. Thanks to this, and having a starting point on the map of European cities, where Spain appears alongside the United Kingdom and Italy as the country with the largest number of intelligent cities, that starting point made it important for the government to bet on this. Hence, a plan was created not only with measures but also with an initial budget of EUR 153 million, which four months later increased by 20% to EUR 188 million. This has enabled a multitude of initiatives to be launched in municipalities, autonomous communities and also in businesses, where ICT solutions have been implemented. But after two years it is time to make an assessment of these twenty-five projects launched by forty public administrations, with a budget of 108 million euros. I would therefore like to know what assessment it makes of the implementation and the degree of fulfilment of the objectives of this National Plan of Smart Cities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u147	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u148	Thank you very much, Mr González Terol. This is a topic you know very well and know in your dual status as digital agenda spokesperson and as mayor. You know how important the digital agenda is and what it is to introduce information and communication technologies into the day-to-day management of public services in local entities. Smart cities are helping a lot to improve these public services and also to improve people's lives, to integrate complex systems - before you talked about irrigation and I can also talk about energy - and, of course, to promote sustainable development because fewer resources are used, better used and more environmentally friendly. In this sense there has been a great effort, as you have said, in the Smart Cities Plan and in the calls that have been made. Three, two cities and one island have been made; in the second, the success of the call was such that there was an increase in the initial budget of 93 million to 108 million. Today there are forty-four local entities that have benefited from projects supported by these calls. These are projects in various fields, although they highlight some such as the use of electric vehicles in municipal fleets, which has led to savings of 75% of the cost per kilometre or the installation of waste container filling sensors resulting in a savings of 39% in fuel consumption. This is one of the major issues of the future, one of the major issues to be promoted. It is estimated that the global market for smart cities will grow at an annual rate of more than 20% and that by 2020 it can accumulate up to $1.5 billion. We are therefore faced with one of the great opportunities, not only to develop our public services better but also to support the creation of a very interesting sector for the Spanish economy, specialized, high added value and high technological value. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u149	Thank you very much. - of Mrs. Elvira Ramón Utrabo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which forms the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality: will the Government increase the percentage of public expenditure under the general administration of the State for the system of attention to expenditure? [[File number 180/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u150	Question by Mrs Elvira Ramón Utrabo, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u151	Thank you, President. Next December 14th is 10 years after the adoption of the Unit Act. The great achievement of this law was to draw attention from the charity box to persons in a situation of dependence to make it a universal right and with public guarantee. In these five years of government of the People's Party we have seen, first, how they stopped the application of this law and then went on to demolish it. The balance is clear: The People's Party Government has attacked and weakened the system of dependency care based on benefits cuts and budget cuts. That is why, Minister, I ask you whether you intend to increase your budget investment in care for dependency. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u152	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u153	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ramón, the will of this Government is to continue to strengthen the Unit Act with the utmost consensus with the autonomous communities and with civil society, with the aim of ensuring care for the dependent, the maintenance of their dignity - not forgetting the caregivers - with a more agile, transparent management, with greater emphasis on the quality of care and the prevention of dependence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u155	Minister, just get Rajoy to the government has decided to paralyse the timetable for law enforcement. Shortly thereafter, in the 2012 General Budgets it eliminated the item corresponding to the agreed level, 283 million euros, and later, if not enough, it reduced the contribution to the minimum level by 13%. In total, more than 1.8 billion cuts. The Royal Decree 20/2012 was a demolition; a demolition because of delays in law enforcement, a demolition because of cuts and a demolition because more than 178,000 people, the vast majority of them women, were left out of the social security coverage system. His dependent Government's record cannot be more desolating; desolating because there are almost 400,000 people on the waiting list and desolating because 125,000 people have died waiting to be served. His Government contributed only 18% of the funding, when they knew that they should contribute 50% and that they were suffocating the autonomous communities. Minister, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is celebrated on 3 December. We will certainly hear a nice speech from you, but neither they nor others who are in a state of dependence need a nice speech, they need funding, the funding that we have been demanding from the Socialist Group and that you have denied during these five years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u156	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u157	Thank you, President. Mrs Ramon, we have not cut the state's contribution to the system of care for dependency; no matter how much they repeat a statement, it is not going to become true. It is true that the agreed level has been eliminated, but it has been compensated, the additional funding from Lofca has been increased and, therefore, the overall contribution of the General Administration of the State has been higher. One cannot take the whole side and confuse the contribution of the State to the minimum level of protection with the total contribution of the State to dependence. You know as well as I do that there are two financing systems: one, General State Budgets, which is finalist and the other, that of the Lofca, that of autonomous financing. The contribution of the State through these two channels of financing amounted in the period 2007-2011, when you ruled, to 11,400 million euros and, in the period 2012-2015, to more than 16 billion euros; 4,668 million more. The Court of Auditors says this: 49.2% of the total funding is from the State and the autonomous communities have contributed 50.8%. Thus, the State has provided half of the dependency. In addition, I remind you of one thing: attention to dependence is a subjective right and that means that its financing is not discretionary, it is not dependent on the will of the Government but rather on the recognition of a right and therefore of a regulated expenditure; behind is a person who requests that subjective right. Of every 10 euros of the ministry's budget, 7 go to dependency. The 2016 budget has increased the items by 6.4% and is 75 million more in 2016 than in 2015. We will therefore remain responsible for budgetary policy that has allowed us to reduce the deficit and create more jobs because with more jobs we will pay for dependence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u158	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA EUGENIA ROMERO RODRIGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT MEASURES IS THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY TO REDUCE THE PREVALENCE OF OVERSIGHT AND SUPPORTING CONSUMPTION HABITATS RESPONSIBLE FROM TEMPRANE EVENTS? [[File number 180/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u159	She asked, also for the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, of the deputy Mrs María Eugenia Romero Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the World Health Organization regards obesity as the epidemic of the 21st century because of its impact on mortality and quality of life. The overall prevalence of global overweight and obesity in children aged 0-5 has increased from 4.2% in 1990 to 6.7% in 2010 and is estimated to be 9.1% in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, in childhood and adolescence overweight has an impact on health, which is very serious. Early obesity is associated with disease risk factors: type 2 diabetes, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, worse antioxidant status or even sleep and psychological disorders. Changes in our Mediterranean food patterns, fast food, the omission of fruits, vegetables and cereals in diets, the fact that 8% of children go to school without breakfast, along with leisure associated with new technologies, have a special impact on children and adolescents. The NAOS strategy carried out by his ministry is now eleven years old; its objectives are to raise public awareness of the problem in order to ensure that citizens, especially children and young people, adopt healthy lifestyles throughout their lives. His motto is 'Eat healthy and move'. Ladies and gentlemen, the health authorities warn us that we are what we eat, but are the Spaniards aware of what we eat? Are we aware of the damage that sedentary lifestyle does? Do we transmit this conscience to our children? Food habits and sedentary behaviors develop in childhood and adolescence, and are then very difficult to modify. Reporting, educating in responsible consumption is therefore, from childhood and from earlier ages, an obligation and responsibility of all public authorities. For the interest of the People's Group in this, we ask the Minister: What measures is she implementing the mystery of which she holds to reduce the prevalence of overweight and promote healthy eating habits from an early age? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u161	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u162	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Romero, I thank you for your question and your concern about our children's overweight and consumption habits. In recent years, there have been a number of social and labour changes that have had a negative impact, causing more sedentary lifestyles and a deterioration in our dietary habits. Combating child overweight is a priority for this Government. A few days ago we saw a positive figure: the 3% reduction in the child overweight rate among children between the ages of six and nine. Although this data is positive, we have to continue working because the rate remains high. The reduction of these 3 points is the result of the actions promoted by the Government, as you said, the NAOS Strategy, whose aim is to improve eating habits and promote the practice of physical activity; the implementation of the PAOS Code to regulate the advertising of food and drink directed at minors, and also the Havisa Plan to promote healthy lifestyle habits. In Spain we are lucky to have one of the best diets in the world, the Mediterranean diet, and I wonder how it can be that having such a rich and healthy diet we are the second country in the European Union with the highest rate of childhood obesity. Have we done enough? Of course not, but we have taken a first step to reverse the negative trend and achieve this reduction of these 3 points. But given that we have this basis of the Mediterranean diet, we have to continue to encourage and create healthy eating habits, we need to involve educational institutions and families more in the nutritional education of our children. Precisely the NAOS Strategy proposes concrete actions in schools, including in the academic curriculum knowledge and skills related to food and nutrition, as well as strengthening out-of-school workshops in the initiation of children in the world of cooking, improving the training of our educators, etc. We have to bear in mind that 20% of our children make the main meal, for five days a week, in school eateries. For this reason, it is of particular importance to pursue the improvement of childhood obesity rates in schools. The ministry for eleven years has been developing the Consumópolis program, with which we are working in all schools, this past year with 8,000 children. But this will only be achieved together with the Administration, society, parents, mothers and schools. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u164	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left on the future of toll freeways. For the defence, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u165	Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Two minutes ago, I thought it appropriate to go and introduce myself to the Minister to congratulate him on his appointment and to wish him a great deal of luck in his management. The minister looked at me and said, "In fact, I'm only talking about Catalonia. I've been appointed a minister for four days, and I'm just talking about Catalonia. And I said to him, Minister, it's normal. You'll find out. I'll start with two important data. The first data, the AP-7 section between Molins de Rey and Martorell has been paid 80 times. I repeat, we have paid nothing more and nothing less than eighty times the initial investment. Second, in 2014 the motorways with explicit tolls, that of the barrier, that of taking something out of your pocket, paying and opening the barrier, collected 1,722 million euros, of which 967 million, that is, 56%, was collected in Catalonia. More than half of the money collected on all state toll freeways was collected in Catalonia. Minister, we Catalans and Catalans are sick and tired of paying these tolls. In fact, Catalonia can be traveled along and wide by motorways tolling and if Catalonia has been paying fifty years of motorways it is because the Spanish Government has not made the free motorways that it has done, for example, in Madrid. Because, far from prioritizing the communication of productive axes, such as the Mediterranean corridor through free motorways that will benefit the competitiveness of companies, which seems very logical, Spain has always prevailed a centralist ideological model and, let's say, radial. In fact, this has been the case since 1720 when the first road plan was approved that perfectly defined a centralist and radial structure, that is, with Madrid in the navel. They have always had more centralism than rationalism. Not in vain, they have a high-speed radial map rather than in the Mediterranean corridor that connects the main economic axis of the State with Africa and Europe. The Catalans and the Catalans, I repeat, we are paying heavily for the ideological conception of the State and we are paying for it in two concepts, the first in quality of life and the second in money. In quality of life because the three sections of highway with the highest average daily intensity of the whole state are in Catalonia or because it is a Catalan highway that supports the largest traffic of heavy vehicles and we are also paying it in money. Why? Because Catalonia pays the most expensive tolls in the whole state at a cost of 23 cents/kilometre, while in Spain the kilometer is paid at an average of 14 cents. Why does a citizen who lives in Rubí and goes to Barcelona to work - which would be, to understand me, like living in Torrelodones and working in Madrid - pay almost 2,000 euros a year in tolls? Well, as I said to you, Catalans and Catalans are tired and tired of paying and we do not want to pay any more, Minister. And as the concession of state-owned toll freeways passing through Catalonia expires, that is, the AP-2 and the AP-7, we want you to guarantee us that we will not further extend this concession and that we will finally stop paying them. Not in vain, we have already paid them twenty-five times. He has started the countdown to complete, as he said, the concession of AP-7. In just over two years, on December 31, 2019, Abertis will have to release the Spanish state, which owns the motorway, the section from Tarragona to Alicante and, two years later, the northern part of Tarragona to the French state border as well as the AP-2, the section from the link with the AP-7 to Zaragoza. So, what happens to the access barriers, which are raised when you pay, the day after the administration receives the infrastructure, is one of the important decisions that the People's Government has on the table today. In the middle of the electoral campaign, specifically on 16 April this year, the then Minister of Development and today President of Congress, Mrs Ana Pastor, said textually that with the Popular Party the AP-7 would be free of tolls, and this was ratified by the popular spokesman, Rafa Hernando, a month later in an antenna on Catalonia Radio. If this purpose ends up in practice, it will mean that more than half a century later, more than fifty years after the entry into service of the first stretch of motorway, that of Malgrat to Mataró, a driver will be able to cross Catalonia, from La Jonquera to Les Cases d'Alcanar, without having to stop at any barrier or pay the corresponding toll, about 34 euros in the case of a light vehicle. Thus, one of the most bloody discriminations between territories will be brought to an end. But is this going to be so? Can you tell us, Minister, that the concession of AP-7 and AP-2 will not be extended? Minister, the rumor has come to us in several ways - you know that when rumors sometimes sound true - that the completion of Catalan toll roads will depend on the rescue of Madrid's radial highways. Apparently, someone has the brilliant idea that the collapse of Madrid's radial highways will also be paid for by Catalans and Catalans by expanding the tolls of AP-7 and AP-2. I hope, Minister, that you will absolutely reject this extreme from this very rostrum, because the failure of Madrid's motorways is also the fault of the Aznar Government. Not in vain, during the Aznar Government a total of fifteen motorways were tendered and awarded, among which nine have already broken at this very moment: the Madrid radials R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5, the Madrid motorway Eje Airport, the M-12, which connects the city with the airport of Barajas, the AP-41, Madrid-Toledo, and the AP-36, Ocaña-La Roda, the Cartagena-Vera motorway, which is that of Almería-Murcia, and the Alicante circuit. The problem, Minister, is that, thanks to the generous terms of concessions, the risks and bankruptcy are not assumed by the concessionary companies, but are assumed by the state, that beyond the 5 billion advanced as exchange insurance and other participatory credits, now it would have to face the bankruptcies and assume the rescue of the highways that the employer amounts to between, more or less, 5.7 billion and 8 billion euros. A real shame. And you know why? Because highways do not respond to an obvious public interest. Obviously not. The first Aznar Government approved the construction of the Madrid R-2, R-3 R-4 and R-5 motorways in the direction of Guadalajara, Arganda, Ocaña and Navalcarnero, respectively. Once the construction was approved in February 1997, a ministerial order stated that the actions were urgent, urgent and of particular interest, as they were considered essential, since the new Madrid radials adequately guaranteed metropolitan mobility in view of the -attention!- congestion of the current roads - they said, and added - in which 80 % of the capacity of the respective roads was exceeded, together with the expected growth of the occupied houses of the outskirts of Madrid. In short, the planned toll freeways are not thought of as necessary road axes of the State, but are designed to decongest and allow urban growth - of course it is, of course it is - of the city of Madrid. So much so that, at the same time as the R-1, R-3, R-4 and R-5 bidding competitions, the M-50 - the third ring of Madrid circuitry, which comes after the M-30 and the M-40- is also being auctioned. The award of the works takes place at the end of Aznar's first legislature and is inaugurated just at the end of the second, shortly before the 2004 elections. These dates seem as random as the dates when some of the leaders of the construction companies appear on the notes of the ex-Secretary of the People's Party, Luis Bárcenas, as they have denounced before the courts - I find nothing - among others, Ecologists in Action. I ended this first intervention of the interpellation, Minister, saying that I do not know what idea you have to pay for the bankruptcy of these motorways, if you have any idea about it, which I hope you do, and that it is not the one that was previously pointed out to be rumored. But I warn you, again - without fear of threatening, it would be more lacking - that Catalans and Catalans are not willing, Minister, to extend our tolls to pay for their disaster. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u166	Thank you very much. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u167	Good morning, Madam President. Your Honor, it is true that in the speeches I am having in the Senate and right here, Catalonia is the main focus of attention, but it is also true that, in the area of infrastructure and transport, in Catalonia there are many urgent matters and, one of them, I would dare to say that they cannot be postponed. Therefore, the first thing I would like to say to you is my surprise that, among them all, for you and your most urgent group - that is why this is an urgent inquiry - is to know what the Spanish Government is going to do in three years' time on a motorway. In order to give you a context on that decision, I would like to give you some data on highways in general on the State Road Network. The network has 26,330 kilometers, which accounts for approximately 16% of the total number of kilometres of roads in Spain - I mean the state network -. To this great road heritage, between 2012 and 2016, we have allocated about 13 billion euros in the General Budgets of the State. From what you say, it gives the feeling that there has been no investment of any kind. With regard to high capacity motorways and toll freeways, they currently account for more than 12,000 kilometres, of which 3,000 correspond to toll freeways. These 3,000 are distributed over 28 toll motorways, managed by 21 concessionary entities and companies; and there are another 500 kilometres of concessional toll motorways that do not depend on the State, which depend on other administrations, and which are managed by 11 concessionary companies. That is to say, if we see the number of kilometres and the number of toll motorways, first of all, we realize that, in relation to other European countries, the proportion of toll motorways in relation to the high-capacity network is not, by far, the highest. For example, in France there are more than 9,000 kilometres. These highways are being used more and more. It is known that last year's increase over the previous year was 6.4%, reaching an average density of almost 17,400 vehicles. If we go to Catalonia there are 12,000 kilometers of roads, of which 1,814 belong to the state network. In these kilometers of state network there are 883 that are of high capacity; and of them, 463 kilometers are toll freeways. You do not speak - you forget - of the toll freeways of the Generalitat, which holds another 212 kilometers of concessional freeways, almost half of those that the State has. Therefore, we are facing a mature network, with a high percentage of high-performance road infrastructure. What we are going to do in this legislature, of course, is to continue with the important investor drive that has been made in this period 2012/2016, to which more than 1.2 billion euros have been allocated for this type of infrastructure. These investments have enabled 67 kilometres of new motorways, 80 kilometres of existing roads, 18 of new conventional roads and the commissioning and refurbishing of five links in Catalonia. We have had to pay more than 200 million euros in expropriations corresponding to the period 2007/2009 - which was not paid to the people - and we have tendered actions for more than 500 million euros, among which, as you well know, the access south road to the port of Barcelona or the link of Vidreres in the A-2 of Girona. Turning now to the issue of toll freeway concessions, let me say that since 2012 the Government of Mariano Rajoy has not approved any extension of concessional periods for these purposes. We are not here to talk about rumors, we are talking about facts and the facts tell us that there has been no enlargement. On the other hand, what has been done is to encourage the use of this type of infrastructure through the approval of a series of toll bonuses. For example, the Ministry of Development and Minister Ana Pastor, in a very fortunate decision, in perfect coordination with the Generalitat of Catalonia, have been implementing since April 2013 in the road corridor of the AP-7 - highway that you have mentioned - from Macanet to the French border, measures to reduce the toll on heavy vehicles by up to 50%, prohibiting their movement through the N-II. This measure has resulted in the removal of 3.7 million heavy vehicles from the road, which has allowed them to decongest and, of course, more fluid traffic and, more importantly, a high level of road safety in relation to the previous situation. Since this measure was implemented, there has been a 73% reduction in fatal accidents in Girona at N-II and a 63% reduction in casualties. So with all this background, the Ministry of Development - I can tell you -, what it does not envisage in the short term is to extend the concessional time limits of any of these motorways or of any other toll highway under administrative concession. The foresight is that when it comes to its end, when the time comes for the reversal and they pass to the General Administration of the State, it is when the General Administration of the State will have to decide how to exploit them from that moment on. You have also mentioned in your speech the situation of the radials and other motorways which, as is already known, are in a very compromised situation, since they are in the process of competition. There are eight toll motorway concessions which have been subject to a complicated situation, firstly, because of the cost overruns of the expropriations themselves, which were initially 400 million, but which have finally been close to 2.3 billion euros and, moreover, because of the existence of real traffic which was less than the estimated in the offers up to 45%. What the government of Mariano Rajoy has done is not to cross arms and, since 2012, has undertaken a series of reforms to try to mitigate the impact of the problem of this type of concessions and to prevent problems in the future with numerous measures, including the last one, for the year 2015: the financial responsibility of the Administration has been limited in the cases of the early resolution of future concessional contracts. Work has also been carried out on a proposal for a convention consisting of a debt renegotiation primarily with creditors, with the public company Seitt acquiring the assets of the concessions for management and their valorization. It has not yet been achieved, and it is a frankly difficult issue because of the disinvestment that takes place among the main shareholders, but I can tell you that we are going to try, even if it is very difficult, to continue to try this possible agreement with the financial institutions. In fact, we have already started contacts to see if it is possible to minimize the impact for the Spanish society as a whole. We are working at the same time on the assumption that this final settlement will take place and that the proceedings on these highways will be initiated. In conclusion, for those who are close to its completion or reversal, it is our wish not to extend the deadlines in the concessional periods, therefore, they will revert to the General Administration of the State and it will be the State that decides at the moment the form of exploitation of them from that moment on. On the other hand - I insist -, since 2012, the ministry is working intensively to articulate a set of actions around the concessions of toll freeways that are found in these difficulties of economic and financial viability, with a fundamental premise - I would like to remind you that at this point that you have mentioned only one political party - there are many actions carried out by other political parties that you have not mentioned and that I did mention last week. I am referring, for example, to decisions taken by the Socialist Group to include participative loans in these concessions in order to compensate for over-costs, up to a value of EUR 483 million - nothing more and nothing less - or the creation of compensation accounts to anticipate operating revenues up to 80% of the revenues foreseen in the tenders - which entailed an additional investment of another EUR 80 million - or the return of those participative loans by means of an authorisation in the years 2010 and 2011 of contractual amendments, that is, to raise toll rates and concessional deadlines. What we are going to do is focus on the important, fundamentally, that it is nothing more than to ensure that those and other motorways will continue to operate and be available at all times in optimal conditions of service for those who wish to use them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà and Mrs Roura have the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u169	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. I will give you a couple of considerations: the first is that yes, it is urgent; I know that there are two years left for 2019 and two more for 2021, but we know you, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, that I give you the reason that you also have part in the cake there. In any case, as we see them coming, we warn you and we want you to make good today the words that Minister Pastor told us and that ratified Spokesman Hernando. Surely in 2021, when the second concession is over, we will already have our own ministry of encouragement, but you fulfill, that this is what we ask of you. And don't talk to me about National N-II, Minister. Yes, it is true that after the pressure of the Generalitat and with the good predisposition of the minister, we managed to pull out the trucks because the N-II national in Girona, for example, is one of the ways where more people have lost their lives and it is a way that is not yet unfolded; so don't set this example for me. I have already told you, Catalan toll roads have affected not only our quality and standard of living, but also our competitiveness; this is also very important. And we're burned and burned every time we have to scratch our pocket in a toll. As you well know, this is a historic claim in Catalonia - I didn't get it out of my pocket. I repeat, it is urgent, because it is not urgent today or in a year, but it was already urgent two years ago. It is not in vain that the Parliament of Catalonia approved a proposal for a law for the creation of a fund to rescue our tolls. This initiative was taken into consideration by Congress in 2008. However, the PSOE and the PP agreed - once again - to extend the deadline for amendments to the bill, so that the initiative fell to the end of the legislature, and Catalans and Catalans have continued to pay. It's the milk story, the usual, the same. The opposition of Catalan society to tolls has been growing in recent years, being aware that we have already paid them heavily. On the other hand, citizen platforms have been created that have driven the debate over the years. The abundant scientific production generated in universities, the creation of a specific working group in the Parliament of Catalonia, etc., have led to a convergence of many opinions towards the same idea, the same: the current financial toll is extremely exhausted, Minister, and it is absolutely necessary to move forward and evolve towards a model of tolls that is homogeneous, harmonious and of course sustainable. Despite the injustice and the aggravation, we continue to have serious doubts that the Spanish Government will accept that in Catalonia we will stop paying the bloody tolls of the P-7 and the P-2, first of all, because we have doubts - you have also talked about this - about the real freedom that you will have from the Spanish Government - this is very important - when it comes to taking any decision of this kind without having been resolved before the conflict with the concessionaire, which currently claims 1,235 million euros, due to an unsuccessful demand commitment, apart from other problems that do not give me time to talk about; problems arising, of course, from the Spanish inefficiency as well as from a clear policy of -attention! - socialization of losses and privatization of profits. So it goes: under a law on public sector contracts made to measure, of course, as so many things, of large companies and the chanchullo. I'm done. What I told you is exactly what happened to the Castor project, to the Pertu tunnel or now to the Madrid radial highways. By the way, all of these projects, all of them, have in common one Florentino Pérez; in case someone hadn't noticed. In any case, and regardless of whether they pay the highways in bankruptcy - which we want them to pay - forget that we pay them; with paying our twenty-five times, Minister, we have had more than enough. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Development has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. Your Honor, I would like to reiterate to you the investments we are already making in Catalonia, which seem to be obvious and important. I again give you the figure of the 11,200 million euros that have been invested since 2012 with this increase for this year of 7%. This may seem to you much, little or very little; but to put it in the right context, I mean the answer I gave to Mr Bel just a few minutes ago, it is three times more than the Generalitat itself has invested in infrastructure and transport networks. [[1,600 versus 552]] And with regard to the greater proportion of toll freeways and that victimistic speech you have made about the situation in Catalonia, let me give you four facts. One: its autonomous community is not the autonomous community that has a higher percentage of toll highway network compared to the total high capacity roads in service in the community taking into account GDP and population. Two: in what its autonomous community is the best is in receiving toll subsidies; it is the autonomous community that has received the most during the period 2012-2015, four times more than the next. Three: the network of autonomous roads with the longest tolls is Catalan; this is a reality and that cannot be blamed on the Government of Spain. And, four - you said, and you said it very clearly, that you did not want to pay more in terms of average toll prices - the state highways in Catalonia have a price that fits the average; but I can tell you that the autonomous highways cost 75% more than the state highways. So, Your Honor, if I may, I think it would be more productive and, of course, much more interesting for the Catalans as a whole, if instead of dedicating the effort to challenge the government, which is fine, which is fine, devoting it or channeling it to request also a reduction of those tolls of autonomous highways. I insist again: it is not two years, it is three years, it is three years and it ends in December 2019. What I'm trying to tell you is that for us the really urgent thing, the really important thing - much more than the decision that the Government can make within those three years - is, for example, to make a decision as soon as possible on the AP-7 motorways in Tarragona and AP-2 in Lleida, to improve road safety and also to reduce disaster, according to what has already been done in the North Corridor, in AP-7 in Girona, to get the N-340 in Tarragona or the N-240 in Lleida to benefit from a decrease in traffic and, therefore, to improve road safety conditions. That is what is important for us and that is what we want to work with the Generalitat to implement diversion measures for heavy vehicles on these two motorways: in the AP-7 in Tarragona and in the AP-2 in Lleida, and we are of course committed to participating in these compensations in the form of toll bonuses for that type of vehicle, which will mean - I repeat - for the national 340 and 240. That is the real issue that concerns us, the improvement of road safety that is immediate. In any case, let me insist that in relation to the concessions, which will come to an end to their reversal, they will revert to the General Administration of the State and, in due course, decide on its form of exploitation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the replies of the Government of Spain to the 46 items adopted on 20 April by the President, Mr Puigdemont. [[Señor Homas MOLIST]] [[File number 172/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u173	We turn to the next item: urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs, on the replies given by the Government of Spain to the 46 points raised on 20 April by President Puigdemont. For your defense, Mr. Homs Molist has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President of the Government, it is an honour to discuss with you, especially ten years after you coincided in the debate in the Catalan Statute, the one that motivated you so much, so much that you collected signatures everywhere. - You'll remember for sure. In ten years, the truth is that it has rained a lot and many things have happened. I'm not going to do the review, it wouldn't make sense or time, but, cordiality aside - let's keep it - then you were already filing appeals against the Statute of Catalonia, and I was defending it. You were arguing for the law to limit democracy, and we were calling for democracy to change the law. We won a referendum, and you lost it. You won a ruling before the Constitutional Court, and we mounted the first major demonstration - then, you will remember, headed by President Montilla - with a motto that said: Wem a born. We decide - We are a nation. We've decided. I make these references because they are largely at the bottom of a debate that I am sure concerns us all, at least us, greatly. Because, although it has rained a lot, the truth is that there are attitudes that have not changed at all. If they've gone to worse, at least from our perspective. I am going to resort to an article published by a journalist named Jofre Llombart that in a very didactic way places the signs of dialogue that we have known over the last few years, as we are now talking so much about dialogue. It says: Solving energy poverty? Your answer, no. At least the winter months? No, no, Tax pact? No, no, Collecting taxes? The FLA. Prohibit fracking? No, no, To charge a tax on big fortunes? No, no, Protect citizens who have been scammed by mortgages or prefernts? No, no, Decide on business hours? No, no, Doing policies of equality between men and women? No, no, Decide which language to use in school? No, no, To charge a fee to Internet operators to dedicate it to culture? No, no, Prohibit bullfights? No, no, Sanctify TV channels that emit inappropriate content? No, no, The Mediterranean Corridor? No, no, Fixing closeness? No, no, Catalan sports selections? No, no, Will we vote if it's worth pursuing? No, no, Well, we'll pretend we're voting. Neither, and if we do, we will impute. Do we really not have political autonomy in all these matters from the perspective of Catalonia's self-government? Are you sure that when I said this morning, that the Constitution gave shelter in 78 to all - I certainly have no doubt because it was so voted in referendum - today this Constitution gives shelter to all? Can't anything be done about all this? That's where we are right now. Finally, our view is shocking, and some still wonder what is happening in Catalonia. Well, that's where they have a part, at least from our perspective, of the answer. The document, which you know, which President Puigdemont handed over to President Rajoy referred, among many other things, to this schematic relationship of facts that I have just quoted. It was delivered, as you know, in April, seven months ago. It was also similar to what Artur Mas, then president of the Generalitat, delivered in July 2014, that is, twenty-eight months ago. I know that you have been in office, but that is precisely why you have had time to draw up a political response to each and every one of the issues raised, an answer that I hope you will give us today, if not at least in part, during your intervention, because so far it has been null and void, as you know. They now proliferate the journalistic chronicles in which it is said that there is a great willingness to dialogue. If that is true, they will always find us, because we have always had the will to dialogue. We have practiced it, we practice it and we will always practice it. Reasons are not lacking, nor - I will allow a personal reference - to me either, to be skeptical to you, but the dialogue attitude is part of our principles and our values and we will not change you do what you do; do not confuse this, said by the way, as it often seems to be done, to be willing to renounce neither our program nor our commitments, because they are also part of our principles and our values. I agree, for example, with what Mr Feijóo said last Monday, precisely in Barcelona: it is not good to put red lines. We don't wear them, and I hope you don't. We must be able to talk about everything, Madam Vice-President, and we also have a duty to dialogue, because we are democratically committed to what citizens have voted for, you and we, all of us. You and we may like it more or less, but I sincerely believe that the democratic principle should be the framework within which to develop a frank and sincere dialogue. At least that's how we see it. I think it is appropriate to make a specific reference to the key issue in order to resolve what is a challenge for you and for us an opportunity: the holding of a referendum. In democracy we believe that there is the solution, not the problems; what happens is that democracy requires convincing and not only serves to overcome. You won against the 2010 Catalonian Statut d' Autonomia, but did not convince. The proof of that is where we are. In Catalonia, independence had never been as strong as it is now. By the way, you have no doubt - you know it because you know me - that I am happy. I know your opinion and that of your Government on the question of the referendum - this morning you have re-expressed it - but it would be clever and useful politically to give us the opportunity - look at what I propose - to simply be able to speak in depth about it, which we have not done. So far you haven't even wanted to talk. I do not ask you to change your mind - I know it - but neither do you ask us to change ours because we will not; that is, at least give us the opportunity to talk deeply about it. The Parliament of Catalonia approved on 6 October this year the following text, which I believe is not yet suspended: It is agreed to promote - says the Parliament of Catalonia - the political and parliamentary initiatives necessary to the Spanish State to make possible the holding of a referendum on the opinion of the citizens of Catalonia in relation to the political future of Catalonia as a nation. This was approved last October by the Parliament of Catalonia. A few days later, on October 10, President Puigdemont came to Madrid and said the following. I repeat it to you because it would have been good, as you are willing to dialogue, to listen to what I was saying. President Puigdemont said: The Catalan proposal to the state is a priority. It is for my Government, and if we begin to negotiate for its implementation, that would mark the agenda of the Government I chair. An agenda in which, with the aim of calling the Catalans to the ballot boxes to decide, there should be no prior restrictions on talking about, first, the date of the referendum, when it should be held and under what conditions; second, the question to be asked, what do we specifically ask - our proposal is clear, but is there a proposal by the State?-; third, the results to consider valid the response and the commitment to implement it; and fourth, obviously, we can also talk about a moratorium commitment before we re-promote a similar referendum. My group endorses these statements, those of the Parliament of Catalonia and those of the President of the Generalitat. These are political positions that a year ago did not have the majority support of Catalan Members in this House. We were told in April 2014 - and there was no lack of reason - that how we could ask for a referendum if not even the majority of the forty-seven Catalan Members supported it in this very House. Well, now there's this backup. I already know that the majority of this House today is not about this work, but in Catalonia things have changed and the stake for the referendum is not only persistent, but it also includes a vast and growing political and social majority. For all this, my group is simply asking you to be able to talk about it with a minimum of serenity and tranquillity. We proposed during the election campaign to set up a working committee on the referendum and the Catalan issue in the Congress of Deputies. It is a simple proposal to open the dialogue in a sincere and constructive way, without asking anyone to give up anything. I insist that this cannot be asked of us either, because then we would no longer be in the framework of dialogue and respect, but of pure and simple imposition. I say to you in that sense clearly that we will never accept any imposition for many threats, imputations and disqualifications that put us on top. Madam Vice-President, this is a simple but silent proposal. It is compatible - it must be - with the institutional relations that your Government has to maintain with the Generalitat of Catalonia - something to which I encourage it - and, as suggested by our Parliament of Catalonia, we believe that it could be useful for this debate also its institutionalization in this House, in the Congress of Deputies. In fact, you have an uncertain parliamentary support that forces you to act permanently linked to this House. I insist that the proposal is very concrete and to be implemented within a very specific period of not more than three or four months. I sincerely believe that neither you nor we are in a position to keep a pace - said with all due respect - in the Rajoy style for what we have in our hands. It is clear that continuing to play through the courts and the judicialization of what should be the field of politics is not the right way, and time cures everything, neither. It is in their hands - also in those of the rest of the House that the dialogue operation does not become a monologue operation. Thank you very much for your attention, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u175	Thank you, Mr. Homs. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u176	With venial, Mr. President. Mr. Spokesman, I'm glad you remember those years. We have all aged a little and some have also evolved. Some things I've heard about here today I didn't hear them then, but we'll have time to get some issues back. Mr. Homs, I'd like to give you a preliminary analysis. The problems and needs of Catalans have been and are the responsibility of the Government of Spain. The Government of Spain is a government for 46.5 million Spaniards, including 7.5 million Catalans. We are here, the Government is here and I am here answering your question with great interest to seek solutions to your real demands and needs, which are both your responsibility and mine. I have always defended - and you heard me say it ten years ago - that this Congress of the nation, of which you and I are members, the Government, the Generalitat of Catalonia and the various local corporations are state. Each of us, from legislative power, from the control of Parliament or from the executive power of the Government, has a responsibility to seek the well-being of all citizens. In a State as decentralized as Spanish, which holds the highest positions in decentralization in all the kennels of international organizations, all public administrations are called to put on our side to collaborate from our particular competences in the achievement of the general interest. That is why I will tell you that it is up to us all to exercise a shared responsibility that goes beyond the use of reproach or aggravation on comparative occasions. Mr Homs, the uncertain world that is coming faces not seeking in others the origin of the problems, but the interlocutor necessary for the solutions, and I certainly come with that spirit. I therefore invite you - if you take yourselves seriously, as we do, what you call a dialogue operation and which for us is, of course, a method and a problem-solving instrument - to move beyond the reproach phase and to concentrate on the tangible. We have always done so, and this Government has always been aware of the difficulties it was going through, especially at the most acute moments of the crisis. [[The lady]] We have done so with conviction and with pleasure, because everything that concerns Catalans is our business and our business. Before we talk about the 46 points - although you have focused on one - let me take a look at what we have done so far. In fiscal and financial policy between 2012 and 2016, Catalonia has received €55 billion through liquidity mechanisms and a saving of interest - because you too are concerned in your 46-point document with saving of interest - €16 billion. In infrastructure, the Government has allocated €11 billion between 2012 and 2016, the second largest investment community. These things are visible and tangible, Mr. Homs. We have made the connection by AVE of the four provincial capitals and with France and we have also worked on the advances, which I will then talk about, in the Mediterranean corridor, the completion of the T1 and on a third track at Prat Airport, as well as on the land accesses to the port of Barcelona. It has also invested in water infrastructure. Without going further, in the Segarra-Garrigues channel - because you too in your 46 points worry about the hydrological theme - 444 million have been invested since 2012. We have supported the car industry - which you don't quote in your 46 points, but I do - and the Barcelona World Mobile Congress. Energy interconnections - which they do mention - and investments in R+D+i, such as the SuperComputer Center, have been improved. Also in cultural policy - which you are concerned about in your 46 points - between 2004 and 2016, the Government of the Socialist Party and the Government of the People's Party have invested in Barcelona High School - of which Mr Ayllón is a member of its board of directors - EUR 130 million in that period. Therefore, we have done things to date, but we are certainly called to do more. Your honor refers to the 46 points raised at the meeting between Mr Rajoy and Mr Puigdemont, which duplicate the 23 which Mr Mas presented to you at the meeting held nine months earlier, but we are ready to speak. That's right, you differ 45 and one; well, I'm going to talk about the 45 - which you've talked about rather little - and then, if you want, we also talk about the one. You have chosen the format and twelve minutes are going to give me for what you are going to give me, but Mr Junqueras and I addressed these first issues at a meeting on 21 July and we are set up for a second meeting in Barcelona, and I am, of course, studying with great interest the documents that Mr Junqueras has sent me on infrastructure, which I have seen are also of concern, and very much, to the Republican Left of Catalonia, which has spoken of tolls rather than reforms. If I want, within my time, to talk about some matters that seem important to me. I will admit the test of yes or no, which is how you have asked me some things - although you already know that in the matter of dialogue neither one can lose a hundred percent or another wins in that percentage, it is always one thing that must be shared - but if it is that Catalans, all Catalans, win in welfare, I say yes. The first of the points in the document concerns fiscal and financial policy. Well, Mr. Homs, yes. The Fiscal and Financial Policy Council is being held tomorrow and, as called for in paragraph 23, there will be a greater scope that we have obtained from Brussels to meet the fiscal consolidation path and, from that, funding mechanisms to be able to finance this authorized deficit. The second issue is infrastructure policy; yes, too, Mr Homs. It is not time to discuss here, in these minutes, the measurement methodology of the Chamber of Commerce of Catalonia or the BBVA or the Institute of Economic Studies, but I will give it concrete expression. Mediterranean Corridor? Yes, Mr. Homs, the works are being undertaken to implement the third track between Castellbisbal, Barcelona, Tarragona, Vilaseca, and I can tell you that we will work to ensure that the circulation of trains in tests in the Vandellós-Tarragona section can be done by the end of 2017. Rail access to the port of Barcelona? Yes, Mr. Homs. In June 2016, the precise agreements for the execution of access have been signed with the Generalitat - you know it well -. Railway shuttle to Barcelona airport, El Prat? Yeah. The works began on July 22, 2015; investment, 272 million euros. Infrastructure investment? Also, Mr Homs: road access to the port of Barcelona, a modified one is being processed; fourth belt; unfolding of the N-340, being negotiated with the Generalitat; complementary measures of compulsory diversions of traffic; unfolding of the N-II; also the rolling stock. You have already heard from the Minister for Development, we want to work in a consensual way on a new programme of actions to continue to promote the improvement of railway infrastructure and associated services. As far as energy policy is concerned, let me tell you something, Mr Homs; here I am going to correct the report a little bit, because for something that is not appealed, you are wrong with it. There's no appeal. The articles on energy poverty of Law 24/2015 are not appealed to the Constitutional Court. The report of the Council of State was followed and has not been appealed and, therefore, the Generalitat can, within the framework of its law, make all the energy policy it wants because it has all the possibilities. But since you have come to ask for dialogue and this is a round-trip motorway, I also ask for dialogue. Mr Nadal, Minister of Energy, is working to reach an agreement on the social bonus for all groups, and if you are concerned about energy policy, which not only affects Castelldefels or Castellbisbal, let us agree on the social bonus that affects all Spaniards. I'm also going to talk about institutional conflictivity. You say that we have resorted to everything and I could tell you - it is very simple, I am not going to do it - that you are resorting more, but there is one thing that Mr Romeva could also tell you, and that is that between Mr Romeva, who is the member of the bilateral cooperation committee, and I have managed to resolve 40% of the disputes between the State and Catalonia. It's not a bad figure. Listen, if you want, let us sit down and move from 40% to 60%, which we need, as long as we agree, because it is not a question of one withdrawing and the other continuing to resort, it is a question of negotiating both. Your Honor, respect for the constitutional framework obliges us all. Anyone is in their right to make a modification. You talk about consensus, you want to change that framework, you want to talk about these issues and you have the freedom that all groups have to bring to this House a constitutional amendment. Those are the rules of democracy, Mr. Homs. You have asked me fundamentally about a matter: the one or the 46, whatever you want to call it, which is an offer of pact of an independent referendum. And you tell me, as Mr Puigdemont said in everything you have quoted: independence referendum yes or yes. Hey, what color is that line that you put into dialogue with the nation's government? Can you tell me what color that line is when you're telling me referendum yes or yes? What remains of the dialogue that you offer when, dialogue or not the Government, you say that this referendum will be held? I am going to tell you one thing, Mr Homs: it is not that the Government wants or does not want to dialogue, it is not that the General Courts set up a commission to decide on a referendum yes or no, it is that it does not belong to us; it belongs to the whole Spanish nation, to all the Spaniards who, as you have recalled, voted on a Constitution and said to the following generations: you can change it, you can change absolutely any article in the Constitution, but agree that the resulting product is a Constitution for all. Therefore - and I finish now - Mr Homs, I invite you to work for stability and not for uncertainty. I invite you, and my invitation is sincere, to dialogue from institutional freedom and not from confrontation. And above all, I say one thing to you: if you and I think of the Catalans, of all the Catalans, we will be right, because, of course, this Government has a will to serve the nation and the needs of all the Spanish, and especially of the Catalans, that we will set in motion and make clear in that dialogue. Very good morning, Mr. Homs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Homs has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, one day we should make a calm and calm analysis, without reproach, because for our part what we have seen are facts, not reproaches, about the level of autonomy and how it has evolved over the last ten years, because we have less capacity to decide in ports, urbanism, trade, social policies, financial autonomy, culture, education, health care, etc., than we had ten years ago, or do you think that the majority feeling in Catalonia is simply the result of a crazy or improvisation or a discomfort promoted by four politicians to whom we have been led, I don't know what? All this is deeper and you should make an effort not to share - I'm not asking you this, because your idea is different from ours, that's for sure - but at least to understand what is coming from Catalonia. You're talking about financing, about the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Look, they're complying with the Budget Stability Act, look at what I'm telling you; they're not going to comply with it at the fiscal and financial policy council meeting on Thursday. There are criteria in this law to establish the distribution of deficit targets and have not met them for a year. Infrastructures, you said, yes, we did. Well, no. They comply with the third additional provision; they have not complied with it for a year, even formalized bilateral commission agreements have not been implemented. As regards transport infrastructure, they comply with the approved plan, which is a reference instrument, the Neighbourhood Plan; they have not even met 10 % of the planned investments. In energy policy, there is no mistake, you have resorted to the Consumer Code, the Consumer Code. As for the conflictivity... You say: it is that everything is resorted to; but you forget a difference, that when you resort, you suspend, circumstance that obviously does not occur in relation to what is within the reach of the Generalitat of Catalonia. There is no way to address the Catalan issue unless it is assumed that a democratic commitment is required, of course, always within the framework of the law. We've never said a different thing. It is surprising to you here that someone like us says - and it is also that we cannot say anything else -: referendum or referendum; of course it does, because it means democracy or democracy. What surprises me is that you answer, before this referendum yes or yes - which is democracy yes or yes - referendum no or no, which means democracy no or no. And I ask him: What color is his red line, whether his answer is referendum or not, which means democracy or not? A referendum was held ten years ago and there is a clear conflict of legitimacy between democratic legitimacy, which was what the people of Catalonia voted - and only the people of Catalonia - on the level of self-government, and the formal legitimacy, which comes from a ruling of a Constitutional Court that everyone knows, you too, under what conditions it was dictated. We can show that all this did not happen and that the law is the law, the law and the law, but the democratic solution there was altered. What people had voted in Catalonia was altered by a Constitutional Court, by the way, with a prestige underground. What's our feeling? I tell you from the utmost respect. We have the feeling that you, this democracy, counter-opposing your proposals to ours before the people of Catalonia, are frightened and seek all kinds of excuses. I insist - and I finish with this -, Madam President, we have always practiced dialogue, we practice it and we will practice it, because, as I said before, it is part of our convictions and our values. You are now aiming for dialogue. We do not know - you will understand to tell it with all cordiality - whether it is the result of the circumstance of arithmetic or because they have become the comparison of dialogue. You'd better be in line with the dialogue, we're happy and I'm telling you honestly, but don't tell me you haven't answered me. Are you willing, not to share the idea of the referendum, which I already know you don't share, but to talk deeply about all this? Are you prepared to institutionalize a debate on this as we have and do in this House in so many other things? Are you willing to talk to the Generalitat of Catalonia about what's on the table? You haven't answered me yet. I ask you, to share everything, a little less attitude to the defensive, because you have sure, sure many things to offer and this does not require as much attitude to the defensive as you have shown in your first intervention. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u179	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u180	Mr Homs, you have said that you will never miss the dialogue and that you will always be ready for it and I take the floor. I hope to see you in all the dialogue forums in which the problems that concern us Catalans and the Spanish as a whole are addressed. I take your floor, Mr. Homs. Sincerity in dialogue will be seen step by step, but you have committed here that you will not miss that dialogue and I hope that you will always be present. Secondly, Mr Homs, with all due respect, let me tell you that it is a bit of a manico thing to counter democracy to non-democracy and that one has the feeling that when you talk about democracy, it is you and the others that we are here for the city council. No, sir, in this House there are Members elected by the Catalan constituencies, Members elected by other constituencies and we are all democrats. That is democracy, and it is a coincidence that legislation is passed here on Tuesdays and Thursdays, which is not approved by the Spanish Government, and approved by this House. These laws are the democratic expression of the national sovereignty of which we are representatives. Therefore, that opposition to law and democracy, as democracy is one and the other, is simply because we do not know what mandate, Mr Homs, is not, in my opinion and humbly, a way to focus the debate. When you want to change a framework that affects everyone, you have to know very well who you have to ask the question to find the real answer. I'll explain myself. If you want to change the organizational framework that the whole of the Spaniards gave us, it is to the whole of the Spaniards that you should ask that question. I told you a moment ago: nothing in our Constitution is untouchable. In other constitutions, yes. There are constitutions that do not let touch any of their points. In ours, from article 1 to the end, to the last of its provisions, they can be modified. It was then done in that way so that the final result would respect the majority and minorities. Look, Mr Homs, what some call rigidity was a way of protecting all the parties represented in this House. And I look at Mr Domènech, because if he reads the parliamentary speeches of some constituent in that debate, which I am sure some of his political formation can feel identified, he will see that that is so. And why is that, Mr. Homs? Because democracy is about respecting the will of all. You say: Let's talk about that democracy. And I say to him: And who is the last holder of that democracy, to whom should we ask? To the Spanish people as a whole, because neither you nor the Government nor the groups can decide whether not all Spaniards agree. I also think that is a way of talking in depth, and we have talked about that in depth and I am willing to continue talking in depth about what I am saying, but you cannot choose the lane, because simply the lane is larger and affects 46.5 million Spaniards. Let us talk about the position of those 46.5 million Spaniards on this matter. We've made progress, Mr. Homs. I'm a realistic optimist, but I'm positive. I think it's good that we talk. I think a twelve-minute format gives what it gives. I'm doing the job. There are some points where we can improve. You talk about infrastructure. I have not taken the picture of how the infrastructure has evolved in the budgets of the Generalitat of Catalonia because we and you have simply managed the shortage of an economic crisis. I can also tell you how your investments are going, and if I provincialize them and if I am municipalize them you will have a problem, because with the crisis we all had a problem. Let us seize the opportunity of recovery, let us work together - I finish now, Madam President - and, above all, Mr Homs, and I think that is important, let us be aware that we will truly respect democracy if in our priorities we stop talking about each other for the whole and concrete what everyone can bring together. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u181	Thank you very much. - THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO PALIAR [[EAJ-PNV]] THE CONCERNING INCREASE IN THE CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL IN MINORS. [[File number 172/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u182	Next, the urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, into the measures to be taken to alleviate the worrying increase in alcohol consumption among minors. For your defence, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, on 2 November a 12-year-old girl died in a Madrid hospital because of an ethyl coma. Two days ago we heard that another under thirteen years of age was still in a serious state after suffering an ethyl coma after having attended a bottle. The facts, as you can read in the written media, are quite similar: a group of minors stays, buys a lot of alcohol, travels to a place where they plan to start that bottle and ends up in the hospital. These two examples are not isolated, they are two examples that I have quoted. It is a latent reality that is becoming increasingly common among the younger population. In fact, 5,000 young people are admitted each year to Spanish state hospitals. But they can actually be more because, in the end, the counting is done using different criteria according to each hospital, but what is worth it is the global data, which is quantifying the problem. As I said, it is not statistically collected in the same way, but this specificity of the data, however important it is, is not relevant or at all conditional on the finding of the problem that affects us: the dramatic increase in alcohol abuse in young minors. For some years now, we have seen an increase in the consumption of large alcohol intakes in minors, concentrated in a short period of time to quickly reach a high level of drunkenness. That's the summary of what's going on. About alcohol we could talk long and stretched out. We will not discuss that it is a drug as such, that generates physical and mental changes and that its consumption conditions behavior at a given time. In addition, it can generate dependence and can generate tolerance. Its harmful use is one of the four risk factors highlighted in the Plan of Action of the Global Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases. Alcohol - let's say in passing - is legally tolerated, socially accepted and has restrictions on sale and consumption in specific age groups, but risks have many. And these risks are substantially aggravated when those who abuse alcohol are adolescents and, in this case, minors, since their brains are particularly vulnerable to the effects of alcohol. We could talk a lot about the effects of alcohol on adults in society, but I would like today's inquiry to focus on the problem we are having with the excessive consumption of alcohol in minors, because during adolescence the harmful effect is even greater. We know that alcohol is an important risk factor in health; and, in particular, it is a risk factor three times more important than diabetes, for example, or five times more important than asthma. Apart from the physical consequences, it can induce mental disorders, etc. Nor can we obviate the catastrophic consequences of excessive alcohol in traffic accidents. Minors do not drive cars, but many minors drive motorcycles, and many accidents are occurring due to excessive alcohol consumption and, later, the driving of motorcycles in minors in that band between sixteen and eighteen years. These changes are undoubtedly lived differently in every citizen, in every young person, physical changes, hormonal changes, etc. We can also understand that, in the rituals from the young to the adult age, alcohol has had a pre-eminence, an important role in all societies and, in some way, has been in a consensual, conscious and assumed way as a step to that adult age. But at present the consumption of these substances has become that ritual of passage with very serious consequences in many cases. I would highlight the 2012 Euskadi and Drugs report, which, among other conclusions, tells us that the onset of alcohol consumption is early and occurs during the period of entry into adolescence; the leap occurs between the ages of sixteen and eighteen, but it is that in time it has changed and that age has fallen. Today eight out of ten schoolchildren reach the age of majority having tried alcohol. But half of the school population between 14 and 15 years of age usually consumes alcohol. Seeing this data, it is not surprising if I tell you that the consumption of alcoholic beverages is historically rooted and socially accepted. But all citizens must be actively involved in tackling the phenomenon of alcohol use, the objectives, actions and actors involved must be defined so that society as a whole can be an active part of the solution. And I say in the solution because in order for there to be a solution first there has to be awareness of the problem, and I think we have a problem. The Basque Group to which I represent, Madam Minister, is clear that many of the measures to be taken to solve this problem are purely autonomous, at least as far as Euskadi is concerned, and that is why we are developing specific plans and even legislation to deal with this problem. We've got it pretty clear. But there are a number of other issues that concern the whole State and also Basque citizens who will also feel affected by decisions to be taken by the State. They are not within our competence and you have to develop them. That is why we are proposing it here today and also because we are concerned overall, because we are not only concerned about young Basques who have problems with alcohol, we do not want to see other young people also with problems of alcohol. Today we come, above all, because his Government has not made sufficient legislative effort or has never taken the initiative in this area. Prior to the summer of 2013, the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality announced the introduction of a bill to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages in minors and their effects. That bill announced it to drums and platter Ana Mato in response to a question from our group in the Senate; so far. Nothing else - I am not going to say about Ana Mato - was known about the law or by whom it happened to implement this legislative measure. In addition, according to the minister's words - this is taken up by the press, these are statements - this law aimed at increasing sales controls, suppressing direct advertising, etc.; a whole series of measures. It's been three years and there hasn't been any initiative here. Therefore, there is no State law regulating the sale, consumption and advertising jointly; there are loose and unrelated rules between them, such as the Law on Citizen Security - Law of 1992 - which considers a minor offence in some nightclub or bar where a young person is drinking, and there is also the General Law on Advertising, which prohibits alcoholic beverages of more than 20 degrees from being advertised. In addition to this legislative absence, Minister, it is also not a subject to which the ministry has put its face at the sectoral conference, for example, which is where you meet and where the advisers deal with this issue, not even as an issue of analysis. This is worrying. Neither has there been an increase in both direct and indirect advertising restrictions in the media to which minors have access. In turn, we are witnessing impassive television programmes which, in addition to being deceptive in their content and quality, become models and set guidelines for the conduct of minors, which unfortunately, mixed with another series of thematic connections, transmit to this collective habits and ways of understanding leisure, relations, treatment between people, etc., which, far from being reasonably accepted, not only in the field of alcohol, but also in matters such as equality, are negative and harmful. I already know that it is not a purely governmental area, but the Government can do many things so that these private companies cannot transmit in their programming values that are quite contrary to what we, in a social contract, consider to be acceptable and not harmful, especially for such a weak population in that sense as is the population of minors. The attractiveness of alcohol is evident in these programmes. In Euskadi from the Basque Government - and I see that I have almost no time left - the Law on Comprehensive Care for Addictions and Drug Addictions has been passed, because, given this problem, new needs and new addictions had to be addressed. We could talk about that long and open and have a calm and serene debate, but let's focus on the subject that concerns us, alcohol. Measures in the field of education, advertising, the media, etc. had to be coordinated. I think it's interesting that you can access that law because it's pretty clear, obvious and very pioneering. This bill has been worked out together and a number of conclusions have emerged. It is clear that this inquiry, Minister, is aimed at reducing the risk factors associated with alcohol consumption; delaying the age of onset and reducing consumption in minors, avoiding their problematic uses, and maintaining and improving the planning, design, formulation, management and evaluation of the different addiction programmes to be developed. So, we have a problem. Alcohol in minors is becoming a major health problem and it is necessary to develop public health and alcohol control policies, without interfering with the commercial or economic interests of third parties. Young people must be given the opportunity to participate in the process of developing such policies and objectives must be determined at State level because not all autonomous communities were competent in some areas. I therefore ask you, Minister, that the Government take the necessary initiatives to ensure that this problem, which is growing, is getting smaller and smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u184	Thank you very much. The next item is the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u185	Thank you, President. Mr Agirretxea, I want my first words to be to regret the death of Laura, the daughter of San Martín de la Vega, who was only twelve years old. I wish to convey to your family our most sincere condolences and our firm commitment to working together to prevent it from happening again. As you said, we have also heard of the ethyl coma of a 13-year-old girl in Leganés, who could have had fatal consequences. We all know it's not an easy task. The consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors is a phenomenon that has clearly harmful consequences for their physical, psychological and social health, and therefore for society as a whole. According to the data of the last State Survey on the use of drugs in secondary education in Spain, although it is true that in the last two years the consumption of all substances, especially alcohol, has been reduced, and that there is also a decrease in the most harmful areas, such as drunkenness and harassment, we still have very worrying figures among minors. Alcohol is the psychoactive substance most consumed by children aged fourteen to eighteen years. In 2014, 68% had consumed alcohol in the last month. The age of alcohol consumption in Spain is very low, both occasionally, which is at the age of thirteen, and periodically established, which is at the age of fifteen. Consumption is mostly on the weekend, but 2% of young people aged 14 to 18 say they consume alcohol daily and in the last 30 days. A significant proportion of minors who consume alcoholic beverages make intensive consumptions in frequency and quantity. 22 % admitted to being drunk in the last month and 32 % to having made the consumption in the dock, which means five or more cups in an interval of not more than two hours. Only 55% of students aged fourteen to eighteen consider that drinking five or six drinks at the weekend can cause enough or many problems, and nine out of ten students aged fourteen to eighteen feel that it is easy, very easy, to get alcohol. What do all these data describe to us? We are told that for minors alcohol is a risk-free product, very accessible and standardized in society, that the consumption of alcoholic beverages daily or at the weekend is the behaviour considered less dangerous by minors, a long distance from the rest of the drugs - the same happens in the age range of fifteen to sixty-four years - and that the permissiveness of parents with the consumption of alcohol by minors is double that for the consumption of tobacco. Therefore, in today's society, minors, with regard to alcohol consumption, combine a lower perception of risk, greater tolerance of consumption and greater availability and accessibility to alcohol, which means that more minors consume alcohol, i.e. higher prevalence of consumption and, therefore, greater risks to their health and public health. So, it is a very important problem that you have perfectly commented on in your inquiry. The Government is aware of the problem. What measures have we taken so far? The gravity described requires the promotion and adoption of urgent, effective preventive measures to prevent this problem or at least reduce its dimension and effects to ensure the protection of the right to health of minors. Aware of all this, the Ministry considers it a priority to reverse this situation and therefore has been prioritized in the Action Plan 2013-2016, which now ends, adopted unanimously at the Sectoral Conference of the National Drug Plan in January 2013, those actions focused on the prevention of addictive behaviors in general and specifically on the prevention of consumption by minors. I will refer to the proposals that we are going to push forward in this legislature. We want to make steady and determined progress on the common objective of zero consumption among minors. We are going to work in two areas: social, influencing citizens' views on consumption and its consequences; and regulation, regulating its consumption. It is true that during the past parliamentary term the Government of the People's Party began working with experts and associations to establish a basis of consensus for the development of a state norm. Mr Agirretxea, here I give you my commitment and I announce that with this basis that we work in the last legislature we will take the appropriate steps to find a political, social and scientific consensus for the adoption of a law on the prevention of alcohol consumption by minors. I want to do that, yes, from the consensus, and I will devote all my efforts to reaching agreement. I want this law to strengthen preventive activity in the fields of family, education, leisure, leisure and social awareness. Undoubtedly, this rule will contribute to generating an educational effect and to establishing a debate in society that has already taken place in three very significant laws in Spain, all of which were also unanimously adopted: that of gender violence, the law of tobacco and that of road safety by points. All were adopted unanimously and what we achieved with these three laws was above all to generate the educational effect and debate in society, the pedagogy in society. Therefore, I am convinced that this law seeks and wants the same. The purpose of the law will be the common goal of zero alcohol consumption among minors, raising the age of onset of alcohol consumption among minors, reducing and preventing access of minors to alcohol and ensuring the health of our minors and preventing early consumption from involving subsequent addiction or dependence. Two main areas of action will have the law, prevention and awareness-raising. Prevention will be directed to several areas, the first, the family member. The family is essential to achieve the eradication of alcohol consumption in minors, within the family we can transmit adequate values on the consumption of alcohol or a message that promotes such consumption. In the educational sphere, the school is the space for the transmission of values that must complement those transmitted by the family, must go in the same direction and complement each other; under no circumstances can we claim that the school is a substitute for the family in the transmission of values because reality shows us that it is not a valid approach. In the third area, leisure and leisure time, we have to propose leisure and leisure alternatives that are attractive without associating them with alcohol consumption in minors. The second important step is awareness raising. It is a question of creating a debate in society so that we can all become genuinely aware of the risk to health of alcohol consumption by our children, a process very similar to that of tobacco and therefore necessary. With regard to the media and social networks, our young people are informed on social networks and in these there is everything, the truth but also the lie, the machismo and equality, is everything and, therefore, we have to teach our young people how to filter well and educate them well in the contents that are on the Internet. Therefore, this law is intended to complement the current state, autonomous and local regulations on access to and consumption of alcohol among minors. The law aims to complete the current regulatory framework on access to and sale of alcohol, alcohol consumption in public spaces and establishments of public competition, and this we can only do - I am very convinced - together, with consensus, with agreement, with all the public administrations, with all the political parties, with all the scientific society, with the associations of the third sector, the productive and distribution sectors, the parents, society and schools. I'm pretty sure if we get on it, we'll get on it. I shall now list other commitments in this legislature. Adopt the national drug strategy 2017-2024, as the current strategy ends this year, where the priority objective has to be zero consumption. And this new strategy has always been achieved from consensus and unanimity, and I am very convinced that we will achieve it again. On the other hand, the Spanish representation in the European Union will continue to insist on the need to draw up a new European strategy, which we are currently lacking, and which will make us all the Member States more able to tackle a phenomenon which occupies and concerns the health authorities of all countries. And there are more commitments, develop, within the framework of the strategy of health promotion and prevention in collaboration with the autonomous communities, local corporations and scientific societies and associations, among other measures the implementation in all consultations of primary care of screening with Audit, test that evaluates the dependence of a person towards alcohol, on the consumption of risk and harmful alcohol, and therefore design an explicit recognition for local entities, sectors of hospitality and food that are distinguished by good practices. The whole of society must be conjured up in order to achieve a very concrete objective. In all the autonomous communities there is legislation, you mentioned the legislation in the Basque Country, which states that minors cannot be sold or delivered alcoholic beverages of any kind. On the other hand, let me tell you one thing, the reality of our streets shows on too many occasions that this ban is wet paper. We must all contribute to ensuring that this ban is effective. We have to get involved and enforce from the public administrations, the police, the businessmen, the parents, the relatives - brothers, cousins, uncles -, the mothers, who on many occasions we facilitate this alcohol thinking that it is not for so long that it reaches the access of our young people; we must all feel called to ensure compliance with the current regulations that exist. As long as our twelve- or thirteen-year-olds enter hospitals with ethyl comas, we cannot look elsewhere. As parents, we must assume our responsibility to guide our children and not be permissive in the consumption of alcohol. The public authorities, autonomous communities and local corporations must assume their responsibility for ensuring compliance with the law on access of minors and their consumption in the public space. Your Honor, there is a great commitment on the part of the Government, on the part of this minister, to reverse this situation. I am convinced that we will reach agreement because the health of our young people has no ideology, but the concern of all the administrations, all the political parties, all the commercial sectors of production, distribution and leisure, the media, the educational community, parents and mothers. So together we'll make it. Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, of your twelve minutes of intervention you have used almost ten or eight to say everything you are going to do. He didn't even give me time to point it out. Obviously, the question I ask myself is this. If you are going to do all that, does it mean that so far your government - which has been ruling in recent years - has done none of that? I totally agree with what you have put forward, and I even agree that for this to happen, we need consensus and active policies, we also need budget, but above all conviction. In the end, I consider you to be the new headline, I demand it from you. You are not personally responsible for your predecessors, but you are the political leader of that department with all its history because, among other things, you belong to the same political group that has been in the past few years. When I was referring to the offer the minister made at the time, it was that she was saying all those things and I wonder what happened in that meantime. Is that problem gone or have we had no need so far? Could it be extended for three years? Well, let's give him the confidence. However, in the motion resulting from this inquiry that my group is going to draft, it will ask for the measures that the Government of the State must take to move this forward. I hope that your words, to which you have committed here, will go ahead and tackle this problem as it deserves because, as you know, and I am convinced, all the political groups in this House are also aware of this. Among other things, because there is one issue that we have not added in the description of everything that generates - neither of us have been able to give any positive question, so we are aware of the negative nature - and it is the amount of crimes against sexual integrity that occur as a result of these alcohol abuse among minors; young people for whom the concept of gender violence is still at that limit, in that legal limbo in which we have not been able to determine it with a specific terminology, but it is much like gender violence, with the aggravating of excessive alcohol consumption. Weaknesses on the one hand and situations of superiority on the other result in crimes against the sexual integrity of persons. In conclusion, we will focus on the petitions. I accept your explanation, and I hope so. I hope that the commitment of your party and your Government will be that which you have expressed when it comes to taking universal preventive measures, as prevention is an important part. That's why I was talking to him about the educational field. You have mentioned the family and it is so, but the environment in which young people are moving, the patterns of conduct, the models that are being given in terms of alcohol consumption, what can generate these situations is something that we have to deal with in an important way. We have selective prevention: the set of actions and strategies aimed at certain subgroups of the population that have been identified as high-risk subjects. Schools have the capacity to identify these subgroups, those groups at greater risk than others because of the environment in which they can live, because of the absence of leisure alternatives they may have. I'd ask you two things. There is no doubt that I respect competition. Some of us have done things and I think we are doing well and, although the problem remains the same, the ways to tackle it are important. On the other hand, you replaced the subject of Education for Citizenship, but it is that in your alternative I do not see any policy of educational prevention in this matter either. Be brave, therefore; we will ask you in the motion. Next week we will be discussing this issue in this House, and from there I hope that the commitment of that bill that they announced and that has not appeared is true and that consensus, risk and courage in demanding what needs to be demanded is a constant in their policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u188	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Agirretxea, of course we have done and a lot - you know - in the national drug strategy 2009-2016. Within the 2013-2016 Action Plan, which now ends, various objectives were set, up to thirty-six of which ten were preventive. Then if you want, I'll give you a review of everything we've done. I understood that you were aware of everything that has been done during the past parliamentary term in prevention on the subject of drugs and alcohol use in minors. Let me just tell you one thing. The data - since you spoke before the law of the Basque Country - say that minors in the Basque Country start before consumption than those in the rest of Spain. In the Basque Country they start at the age of 13.6 and in the rest of Spain at the age of 13.8. There are also more minors in the Basque Country who say they have been drunk, who have made botellon or beach drinking. And since you ask me as if you did not know what we have done, I will tell you that from the Fund of confiscated goods have been allocated by the Government of Spain grants to the Basque Country for the development of plans and programmes on drugs and alcohol consumption in minors worth 1.5 million euros. I would also like to say that the Basque Government stated in the Seizures Fund Convention of 2016 that it did not have sufficient time to formalise the convention. Therefore, due to their lack of time they have not been able to access 354,000 euros in this programme. Also, since you were talking about this law of the Basque Government in which they proposed a ban on drinking alcohol on the public street, it must be said that it was laid down by Bildu. You have reached agreements, but an amendment as important as banning alcohol consumption on the public road has fallen. Therefore, in the Basque Country there is no prohibition on drinking alcohol on the public road. I honestly think we all have to do self-criticism to improve. Self-criticism does not serve to quarrel, but to improve and raise awareness of this serious problem of child consumption. Let me tell you about the thirty-six goals that have been advanced in the 2009-2016 strategy, because a lot has been done. National and international legislation on consumer prevention has been studied. A workspace of its own on social networks has been developed. You mentioned the family and school environment, but the kids move in other areas, especially in that of the networks: WhatsApp, Facebook or Twitter. We have therefore already developed our own work space on social networks as a way of bringing information closer to citizens, especially young people. We have updated the website of the delegation to facilitate access to information of interest to professionals, the general population and children. We have carried out prevention campaigns funded by the delegation in the context of aid to NGOs amounting to EUR 800,000. Programmes have been put in place to promote a responsible culture in the sale of alcohol in the hotel industry and the prevention of illegal drug use in night clubs through the Prevention of Drug Addictions and Addictions Plan in the hotel sector. In this context, an agreement has been signed with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in 2012 and more than 100 projects of local entities have been beneficiaries for an amount of 450,000 euros. Training programmes for guardians have also been carried out within the framework of the agreement with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, focusing mainly on the school and the open environment, especially on consumption on public roads. A project has been carried out to improve the detection and short intervention processes in primary and emergency care. We have launched the project to implement protocols for early detection and intervention in vulnerable children. There has been a call for competitive aid for all NGOs and research centres during the period 2012-2016 to which almost EUR 30 million have been dedicated to subsidising more than 700 programmes duly contrasted with scientific evidence and aimed at raising awareness among all significant sectors of the population. We've done a lot, but we have to do more. The important thing is that we are aware of the problem from the government and have the commitment of this minister to move forward in this new law from agreement and dialogue for the sake of our children and children and to achieve a priority objective: consumption of zero alcohol in minors. I make a call and a distress call to all, because we must all ensure that the ban on selling or providing alcohol to minors is complied with. When we see a kid in a public square, we shouldn't look the other way. Therefore, we must all be aware. We will achieve this from agreement and dialogue and here you have a commitment that I will keep my word and the law will come to this House. Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u190	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u191	We now turn to the agenda item on the motions for resolutions submitted in connection with the debate on the memorandum on the status, functioning and activities of the General Council of the Judiciary and the courts and tribunals for 2014. 127 motions for resolutions have been tabled by the mixed parliamentary groups - Mr Bataller i Ruiz and Mr Homs Molist -, Mr Vasco, Mr PNV, Mr Esquerra Republicana, Mr Citizens, Mr Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Socialista and Mr Popular in Congress. The parliamentary groups may intervene in a minor to greater order for a maximum of five minutes to defend the proposals and amendments tabled, as well as to establish a position on those of the remaining parliamentary groups. In defence of the proposals and, where appropriate, of the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Compromís has tabled four motions for resolutions and I believe that three of them - those numbered from 98 to 100 - do not need a great explanation to understand their meaning. On the one hand, we want the judiciary to include in the successive memoirs it presents, with due separation, a mention of the abundant complaints and complaints received on the grounds of the failure of the Administration of Justice to comply with its obligations to respect the various co-official languages of the State. Those of us who live in a territory endowed with a co-official language of our own know that this situation of postponement of our language is very evident, we know that the complaints are abundant and we want them to be duly reflected in memory. We would also like to see complaints about the situation of persons in detention centres for foreigners reflected. We have had the opportunity to get to know these centres, to see under what conditions they are and we know that they truly have a prison character, thus violating the preventions that the Constitutional Court pointed out in this regard. In Compromís we advocate the immediate closure of these detention centres for foreigners, but in any case we insist that these complaints be included in the memory. We also want a request to the General Council of the Judiciary to take the necessary measures to prevent excessive mobility in many judicial bodies. In practice, we see that there is a two-speed justice system because many judicial bodies, especially those based in small villages, are only served by judges and magistrates for a minimum period of time. It is not a problem of interinity, it is a problem that as many judges do not consider themselves desirable, it remains a short time in them and in the end the citizens receive a justice of worse quality than the one we have who live in large cities. As an example, I will quote the Court of Nules, where the investigation of Carlos Fabra's case took place and which took eight years to carry out such an investigation precisely because of the repeated changes in the holders who were undergoing the aforementioned trial. I want to dwell a little longer on the proposal No 97 that we have tabled because I want to clarify its meaning. When we say that we want to ensure the oral and written knowledge of the respective official languages by judges and prosecutors, we want to say exactly that, that is, that it is a requirement, because we also see the problem from the point of view of the public service, which is justice, and we understand that the users of this public service, who are forced to change their language when they come to the courts, are not being properly attended to. Therefore, we consider, and I say so, that judges and prosecutors serving in courts located in places that have a language they do not know, that they are not able to understand, are not adequately performing their duties and are not fit for the post. This is contrary to article 120 of the Constitution, which requires that judicial proceedings be predominantly oral, especially in criminal matters. What orality, what immediacy are judges and prosecutors who do not know the language of the place where they practice? It is high time that we put an end to this situation of discrimination and that the citizens who live in territories with another official language should no longer be second-rate citizens and should now have professionals who are certainly qualified to carry out their work in the place where they are intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u193	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since the Democratic Party we have presented a series of motions for resolutions to the Council's memory, which we could group together on three major issues. The first is the quality of access to justice and the guarantee of rights. It is essential that one is understood and can be understood; mechanism: the word, the tongue, and this cannot be approached with warm cloths. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary to be able to understand the person who speaks and there is only one way: to ensure that it is a requirement to be able to access the places of judges and prosecutors in the communities with their own language so that they have the remaining knowledge of the language in order to understand the justiciable. Therefore, we ask it to be a requirement and any other measure seems to us, as I say, warm cloths. Second line of motions for resolutions: the depoliticization of justice in the governing body of the General Council of the Judiciary as the main actor. What do we mean by that? The General Council of the Judiciary has much to do in this area, much to help, and appointment policy should be based, only and exclusively, on merit and capacity criteria. It hasn't always happened like this. I would like to recall that in the appointment of the person who was to hold the presidency of the Provincial Court of Barcelona there were requirements of sexism and politicization in the face of requirements of merit and capacity; that is, she was better prepared objectively, but she dared to defend the right to decide from Catalans, which she deserved not to be appointed for this square, despite having, objectively as I say, better merits than the one proposed. The president of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, more than the same: he had the right way to conduct himself by aligning himself with the Government's thesis on the Catalan question, on the subject of Catalonia's territorial lace and, as a result, possibly earned him his appointment to the TSJ of Catalonia. Therefore, depoliticization of justice and the main actor for this purpose the General Council of the Judiciary. Last line of motions for resolutions: that more places of judges be convened, that the workload of each judge in its demarcation is valued, that he is remunerated in accordance with that workload and, therefore, that the criteria for remuneration and evaluation of the workloads of these judges be changed. Few judges with a high workload and poor pay are guarantees of poor quality justice. The boasters are against the interests of the citizens, we must put in place the necessary measures to ensure that these boasters are the least, that there is little abandonment of the places of the judges who have an appointment and, therefore, help that justice, through these mechanisms, can be a little more agile and a little more effective. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u195	Thank you very much. For the defence of the proposals and, where appropriate, of the amendments tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u196	Thank you very much, President. The motions for resolutions put forward by this parliamentary group are on several fronts: firstly, proposals and a diagnosis of the situation of justice at the moment. That is why we call for the Council to draw up a White Paper on Justice, as it was done in 1997, so that it can be referred to this House for debate and, if necessary, enriched and approved. Secondly, and in relation to the functions of the General Council of the Judiciary relating to training, appointments and inspection, a number of proposals are put forward which are grouped as follows: as regards training functions, it is proposed to promote specialization that avoids cross-cutting understanding of matters, to provide for the formation of gender-based violence, minor prosecutions in cases, hate crimes, the use of official languages other than Spanish and also the recovery of Rights International Spain to be re-included in their training programmes and activities; and specific training on the historical memory and rights of victims in crimes against humanity. With regard to the functions of appointment of senior court officials, higher courts of justice in the autonomous communities and the Supreme Court, the establishment of an ex ante barring of merits and the promotion of gender equality in the promotion of senior judicial posts. With regard to the functions of service inspection, it is proposed that a proposal on the burden of work in relation to the health risk of judges and judges be completed and that this House be informed; that a code of ethics be finalized and that the use of Ibero-American should be discontinued; and that the investigation and prosecution of corruption cases should also be expedited. Furthermore, the promotion of intra-judicial mediation as a complementary procedural mechanism for conflict resolution and as a complementary method of judicial guardianship should continue. There are also issues related to the functions of the promotion of justice: that the advisability of maintaining or adapting the right of grace and forbearances in our legal system be assessed and determined at the present time. There is another block of motions for resolutions dealing with the territorial adequacy of justice. In this regard, it is proposed that steps be taken towards the fullness of the higher courts of justice of the Autonomous Communities both with regard to the autonomous legal system and the State, including extraordinary remedies, and that the powers of the Supreme Court be established for the unification of doctrine, i.e. for its nomophylactic functions. It is also proposed to deconcentrate the functions of the General Council in the higher courts of justice, in particular in their governing chambers; it is also proposed that staff serving the Administration of Justice, both lawyers and the rest of the bodies, be removed from their national character and that they be regulated in the manner set out in the EBEP, as a basic legal framework, or in the Labour Inspectorate, and that lawyers depend on the autonomous communities to the extent that they manage the judicial offices. With regard to the law and official language of its own, which is established as a requirement, that the reforms of the Civil Registry be halted and that they continue to be maintained in the field of the Administration of Justice, and we propose that their front be the lawyers. Finally, with regard to the amendments they put forward to our proposals, we will accept paragraphs 23 and 24 of the People's Parliamentary Group with regard to proposals 29 and 40 we have made, and paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Citizens' Group with regard to our proposals 42 and 45. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u197	Thank you very much. For the defence of the proposals and, where appropriate, of the amendments tabled, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor by the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u198	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Esquerra Republicana has presented motions for resolutions to the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary, which are basically linked to judicial independence, to appointment policy, to gender parity, to guarantees of access to justice for LGBTI people, to the use of languages other than Spanish, to deadlines for the approval of the employment relationship, to the stability of judges and to the service of judicial statistics. First of all, and with regard to judicial independence, we see with concern in the Republican Left, and so we express to the President of the General Council of the Judiciary, the policy of appointment of the Council because we believe that it is based on ideological positions, because people are ceased and not appointed who have positions contrary to the Government of the People's Party. In addition, we consider that many of these appointments have been discriminatory, contrary to equality agreements and not based on the merits, competencies and capacity of candidates. Indeed, some of these appointments, and not for Catalonia, but for the Spanish State, have been challenged before the Supreme Court and have been effectively revoked. Others have also been openly criticized by the judicial career. Examples of this appointment policy - previously referred to as the spokesman for PDC - is that of the Presidency of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, the non-renewal of the President because it was not aligned with the line followed by the Government of the State in the case initiated by the 9 November consultation. Another case or example in the policy of discriminatory appointments is the presidency of the Barcelona Provincial Court. Candidate Àngels Vivas had more merit, seniority, ability and competence than the nominated candidate. Why wasn't she named? Because, incidentally, he had indeed signed the manifesto in favour of the right to decide in Catalonia. That is why we propose that arbitrariness in appointment policy be abandoned and that the principles of equality, merit and capacity be respected. Secondly, appointments in relation to parity or equality - live equality and how far we are from parity! - in accordance with the composition of the judicial career itself. At present, 68% are women. If we look at the appointment policy in what the senior bodies have to be, provincial hearings presidencies and higher courts presidencies, we will see that women disappear from this appointment policy. That is why we propose that measures be taken to achieve parity between men and women in the appointment policy of the General Council of the Judiciary. Thirdly, with regard to the mention of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons, we propose that the General Council of the Judiciary should ensure access to justice for LGBTI persons, developing the necessary measures to raise the awareness of judges and magistrates. Fourthly, in relation to the use of official languages other than Spanish in those territories with their own language, I do not reveal to you any secret that Esquerra Republicana defends that this is a requirement and not merely a merit or, in any case, that it is an indication. We believe that it is indeed a matter of believing or not believing that justice is a public service and, among other things, that Spain complies with the guidelines of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. In this regard, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe recommended this and pulled the Spanish Government out of its ears. In this case we call for compliance with the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages and, therefore, for languages which are their own in the different communities which have their own language and which are also official to be used with full normality. As far as the rest of the proposals are concerned, we urge the General Council of the Judiciary to reduce - I am finishing, Madam President - the deadlines for the approval of employment relations, the orders for the creation of common procedural services, since they are adopted in plenary one day a month. Also that the inspection service and the judicial statistics service carry out the necessary changes to respond to the new organizational model of the judicial office, improving its coordination and also to promote remote inspection and respect the compatibility test despite the decisions of the State technical committee. Finally, we believe that, given the data of high temporality, the General Council of the Judiciary should take appropriate measures to achieve greater stability of the judiciary. In that connection, we would also not accept any of the amendments that have been tabled to the motions for resolutions proposed by the Republican Left of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u199	Thank you very much. In defence of the proposals and, where appropriate, of the amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to defend what are the motions for resolutions tabled by our group in connection with the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary. I want to say, first of all, that given the format of this debate, its limited time, the breadth of this memory and that we are also referring to a memory referring to the year 2014, it is clear that my intervention at this time has to be of a general nature, but it does not seem to me to be any less important. First of all, I would like to point out that justice is, in our view, the great forgotten of our country's public services for more than forty years. In other sections of the public administration other public services have been modernized and have undergone a process of reorganization over the past few years, but the truth is that justice has not been done with the same depth and effectiveness. That is why we believe that there are now four challenges facing our Justice Administration, our judiciary, in general terms. These four challenges are summed up in turning it into a genuine public service, effective, efficient and capable of fulfilling its true function, which is to be the ultimate guarantee, the judicial guarantee of the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. For that to happen, action must be taken on four lines, and that is the summary of the sixteen motions for resolutions that we have tabled. The first line of action is, of course, in the area of the depoliticization of our justice, the depoliticization of the judiciary. I would like to point out, and we have said this repeatedly, that when we talk about depoliticization, we are not talking about the depoliticization of judges and magistrates, that we have no doubt that they are governed solely by criteria linked to the application of the law, but about the depoliticization of the governing bodies of the judiciary. In this regard, we believe - and we have already discussed this in this House - that the appointment of judicial officers of the Judicial Branch of the General Council of the Judiciary must be recuperated, and that is because citizens today do not perceive that their claims are met by a judicial branch presided over by the criterion of independence but by the criterion of party dependence, and it is absolutely essential to combat that appreciation. It is also absolutely essential to recover a genuine judicial career presided over by objective criteria of merit and capacity; a judicial career that allows any incoming judge to know that his promotion in that career will be presided exclusively by those criteria and not by political affinities, as is the case at this time. A second line in which action must be taken is the provision of more human and technical resources for our administration of justice; more human resources, which obviously require a reorganization of the judicial office; and more technical resources. First, action must be taken to promote interoperability between the different judicial systems which, by the competent dispersion of our system, have allowed in many cases not even interoperable. There is no doubt that we must also act, ladies and gentlemen, for a better organization in terms of the judicial plant, which does not adapt to the socio-demographic characteristics of a Spanish society of the 21st century, which has evolved a great deal, and which responds to an absolutely obsolete organization. And also, with regard to this organizational improvement, there is no doubt that we must act in the field of procedures, that we must modernise and submit to a major revision, mainly in the field of criminal procedure, the only procedural code that has not undergone a complete revision after our Constitution. Those are the general ideas, as I said, that encourage those sixteen motions for resolutions. With regard to the motions for resolutions from the other groups, we find a broad area of confluence and, therefore, we will vote in favour of many of them, although some do not. We will accept the amendment tabled to our proposal 68 by the People's Party, which we believe is in the right line of what we are proposing. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, we urge the General Council of the Judiciary to develop certain policies, but, as a conclusion, we should understand that the recipients of all these proposals should be us, the Members of this House, the political forces that have a magnificent opportunity to achieve that pact for justice, that pact for modernization, for updating justice and for truly turning it into that public service that is the last guarantee of the freedoms and rights of our citizens. We should therefore understand that we are the fundamental recipients of the vast majority of these proposals that we are making today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u201	For the defence of the proposals and, where appropriate, of the amendments tabled, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sixto Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Today, according to article 563 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, we see the memory of 2014. It is a year that I would like to remember on two points. Firstly, because it was the year in which Mr Lesmes, still president of the Supreme Court and of the General Council of the Judiciary, delighted us with that magnificent phrase that the judge is controlled by the stick and the carrot, something that has characterized the performance of that president of the General Council of the Judiciary. It was also the first full exercise after the adoption of Law 4/2013, reforming the organization and functioning of the General Council of the Judiciary, Law 6/1985. A law that, like so many others, passed by the People's Group in practice alone in the House and with the confrontation of the rest of the groups, and a law that has produced a series of side effects desired by the People's Parliamentary Group, which has led to what we can say is the most successful failure by the General Council of the Judiciary to fulfil its main purpose, which is to ensure the independence of judges and magistrates. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not an issue that we point out in isolation, but rather the Greek report of the Council of Europe, which made recommendations on this lack of independence of the General Council of the Judiciary as a result of the reform of Law 4/2013, which the Government replied in January 2014, in the same year that we discussed. However, that report that we have just heard was published last month and affects that lack of conviction of the Council of Europe regarding the independence of the government of the judiciary in Spain. The changes to this Law 4/2013 have strengthened the omnimum power of a president and a standing commission of the General Council of the Judiciary that has all the powers of the council, to the detriment of a plenary, that the constituent wanted to have twenty members and that by that composition to collect the political plurality, and in the end, the legislator wanted that political plurality to be that emanating from this House. However, that law distorted it and has ultimately been enforced by a majority of the General Council of the Judiciary. This majority could vary. There is an article in that Organic Law 6/1985 - 601 - which speaks of the rotationality of the members of the executive commission of the General Council of the Judiciary, and says that it is a rotationality that will be sought. It is a decision of the legislator to say that rotation will be sought and not to force such rotation by a minimum means to ensure the plurality of the executive commission. A way of working that by requiring only simple majority versus qualified majority, or that the vote for appointments be public rather than secret ballot, then certain recriminations come. As a counterpart to that policy of appointments which other groups have criticized and which constitutes the policy of carrots, we have the policy of the stick, which Mr Lesmes said, executed by the promoter of disciplinary action, regulated by article 603 et seq.; a true enforcer of the policy of punishment, which the president of confidence of the People's Party in the General Council of the Judiciary has been exercising against judges and magistrates. My parliamentary group, in order to correct all these shortcomings that the legislator will have to correct by means of a reform that we hope will come sooner than later, a new reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, has submitted twenty-four resolutions concerning the conduct of the General Council of the Judiciary itself. The legislator will already solve what he has to solve. And these indications to the General Council of the Judiciary go on the topics I have commented on or on other issues such as equality, measuring judicial burdens, the independence of the Judicial Police, strengthening territorial secondment judges in the face of interim justice, which other spokesmen who have preceded me in speaking have also commented, or improving statistics. We are talking about unexecuted sentences; a very high percentage of sentences are not enforced, 62%. We are talking about the establishment of courts, the judicial plant, the care of women victims of violence, the friendly rooms and the training of staff. We have put forward a number of questions on the linguistics as regards not only the right of users of justice to address them in the language they consider appropriate and appropriate without delay in legal action, but also to use the rest of the official languages of the State and not only the Castilian, who is overly protected. Also on the fate of court fees, on the functioning of Lexnet - already paradigmatic - and the compatibility of the various computer systems. Finally, Madam President, we are not going to accept the amendments that Citizens and the Group of the European People's Party have tabled. They have agreed to enter the language issue and there we share views with other groups in the House. We shall put them to the vote in their entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u203	Thank you very much. In defence of the proposals and, where appropriate, of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group, Mr Muñoz González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today at the plenary session of Congress the motions for resolutions concerning the memory of the 2014 Council. This would be the first reflection. By the end of 2016, we are debating the memory of 2014, perhaps because of the slowness of justice. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u205	One second, Mr. Muñoz. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still an important part of the plenary. As I did yesterday, I understand that it will be the last time I call your lordships to remain silent. I beg you because I will not call one to one to order, those who have been standing for more than half an hour, those who have been speaking for more than half an hour; I will not call one to one. Please, Mr Muñoz is taking the floor and you must respect the speaker, in this case Mr Muñoz. Go ahead, Mr. Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our group has tabled various motions for resolutions but, listening to some of the previous speakers from other parliamentary groups, I would have to tell them that we are submitting amendments to the motions for resolutions to a Council memorandum, we are not amending the judicial policy of the Government. That will be done by our group at the meeting of the Minister of Justice on Monday and we will talk about what we understand as the poor functioning of the public service of justice by the People's Party Government. We will also talk about Lexnet's collapse; within the ministry, we will talk about the judicial office and its non-implementation, the budget commitment that does not exist, the lack of places and the lack of means. We will talk about those procedural rules, some obsolete and others reformed that are worse than the obsolete ones. We will also talk about the privatization of the Civil Registry. What we're talking about today is the memory of the council. As far as the memory of the council is concerned, we have to confine ourselves to the last ruling of the Constitutional Court of 15 November this year, which judged what Mr Sixto referred to earlier. The problem is that we have already been resolved by the Constitutional Court, which has said, for example, in relation to this issue that the only appearance that can be required of the President of the Council is precisely that in which he comes to the House to talk about memory. The initiatives we have presented are grouped into several groups. First of all, the care and defence of the victims is essential for us. There is one in relation to the victims and two specific ones in relation to two groups that are particularly sensitive to us: one in relation to the eviction processes and the other in relation to the motion for a resolution 125, which deals with gender-based violence especially in relation to minors. Gender-based violence is a scourge that our society has to fight, that institutions have to fight, so there has to be an express commitment on the part of the Council - which has competence there - to carry out actions in this area. Another group of measures has to do with the training, assigned by law and by the reservation that this law establishes, of judges and magistrates, which has to be continuous training in relation to the increasingly necessary specialization. Another group of initiatives has to do with the provision of the means, especially in judicial bodies that prosecute corruption; a shock plan for bottlenecks that are generated in some areas and judicial bodies, the updating of the workload division model and the improvement of judicial statistics; and, ultimately, an increase in judges, to the extent that this also has some possibility of doing so by the Judicial Power Council. Also, when the places are provided, there is positive action by the council in relation to effective equality in access to the places. Finally, there are also organizational measures - in which the council does have competence - that are essentially the implementation and generalization of the double criminal court in the civil and criminal chambers of the higher courts of justice. And then a clear board competition. We want transparency and objectivity to be enhanced in the rules on the distribution and allocation of cases to ensure a principle that is decisive: the ordinary judge predetermined by law, because by that catera one ends up collapsing arbitrariness. I remember that in the last procedure that was given to the memory of 2013 - some of you were deputies - we spent much of that appearance talking about Judge Ruz. There must therefore be transparency in all this. Finally, I would like to say that we are going to vote in favour of the initiatives that we understand technically well put forward by some groups in relation to languages. We will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution 13 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos and 34 of the Basque Parliamentary Group. And we particularly regret that there are other groups that did not want to accept an amendment that came to say what we said in the Commission and that we think it was a reasonable amendment, which dealt with the two aspects of the use of co-official languages: one, the right of the citizen when he assists the Administration of Justice in territories where there are co-official languages, and two - I say it again and end with it -, speaking of the action of the Council, what the Council can provide in relation to the linguistic rights being reflected for those who work in the judicial bodies. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u207	Thank you very much. In defence of the proposals and, where appropriate, of the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. According to article 558 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, the council is responsible for the administration of judges and exercises its powers throughout the national territory, under the powers of article 560. In turn, article 563 requires that a report be sent annually on the status, functioning and activities of the council itself and of the courts and tribunals. We are in this process, as Mr Muñoz and Mr Sixto have said very well, and as the Socialist spokesman has also pointed out, a regulatory law declared to be fully constitutional this month by unanimous decision of the High Court. However, as has already been said, we have, in this case very late, completed the procedure for 2014, when we find a memo on the table for 2015 already presented in this House and after constant calls year after year since Congress to speed up the presentation and approach with the maximum approximation to the completed exercise the accountability of the president of the council. On this occasion, as your ladies and gentlemen know, the great gap is due to the anomalous succession of the completion and start of the legislatures in a year. At the judicial opening this year 2016, the president of the council pointed out that, by endorsing the words of Professor Toharia, the judicial system is debating in our collective imagination between respect and trust, and suspicion and disaffection. The surveys provide daily elements that confirm such ambivalence. However, our society needs to know that it has 5,500 judges in a spirit of service and that the average number of sentences handed down by each judge in 2015 reached nearly 300, around a total of 1.5 million sentences that have meant greater legal certainty, greater respect for rights in the face of abuses and less social conflict. And we can only show our respect for these and other justice professionals. These data are important but do not reach the citizens clearly, and in political discourses the jurisdictional work is often confused with that of the Administration of Justice. We, as has just been said, have not come to discuss specific cases either on the case law of the courts or to question the quality of the professionals in the administration of justice. But we are concerned about response times, difficulties in implementation, workload reports. Together with the society to which we represent, and listening to legal operators, we are transmitters of perceptions and achievements, because we are also responsible for promoting, approving and supporting the regulatory instruments necessary to improve the situation of our Justice Administration. As much as some do otherwise, many have been the changes that have occurred, and very positive, in the last period, so the distortion of what we are talking about in this memory does not in any way favor the true current perception. In any case, the groups have put forward 127 proposals that make a tour of concerns on which there is a broad level of consensus beyond political decisions - I think that is of limited scope - when it comes to accepting resolutions from others. We are going to accept more than sixty because we believe that we need to work on more transparency in the council, society demands it from politicians, also from the General Council of the Judiciary; more democracy and equality in the treatment of council members and their actions. We are working on the establishment of bodies, on the better management of the judicial plant, on compatibility in appointments, on mediation, on the fight against fraud, on co-official languages, although they do not accept - and I agree - the amendment which we have tabled and which responds to which the Socialist Parliamentary Group has already submitted to the Commission and with which we and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group agreed. Many points have been reiterated, but I would like, in the short time that I have and with a little consideration from the Presidency, to point out that in our amendments - which are five but which welcome many of these issues which are here, plus all those which we are going to adopt from our group - we are concerned about all these organizational aspects. We do not want two-speed justice depending on the autonomous community. We are also convinced that modernisation is necessary. Justice cannot continue to lose the train of modernization. It is not easy, it is not done in a minute, but the council also has to collaborate, and it does and will do better as it listens to all justice professionals, we collaborating from these Chambers and the government collaborating in the field of their competences with the council and the government. We talk about the advantages of mediation - it has been said today in the control session - and groups, other groups, demand more information in memory. We also call for a surrender of what the impact of regulatory changes is. We believe that this is the best measure of how we do our work and, indeed, how we do it. We are congratulated, we believe so, because today the spokesman and certainly the speaker of the Socialist Parliamentary Group have changed their attitude. This is not a burnt land, it is not a land of anyone. We agree, of course, with the objective and with many things. Here he has demonstrated his willingness to work, his willingness to promote the goal of improving justice, helping professionals to work better and making citizens feel better defended in their rights. It is the support that we are going to give to the amendments and it is an important gesture today to work together on that common goal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u209	We now turn to the last item on the agenda, on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Paris Agreement, made in Paris on 12 December 2015, and the statement that Spain wishes to make. As agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, a three-minute shift is to be opened for the parliamentary groups to determine their position and the opinion will be put to the vote by consensus. Firstly, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u210	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago an interview was published to Norman Foster, and asked if there was a chance to reverse the global warming situation that our planet was experiencing, he replied: what we cannot afford is not to start trying. I believe today that the Government has realized that we cannot afford not to start trying and that they bring this agreement here to ratify it and to take forward the Paris Agreement, which - you know - aims to combat the climate change that affects us but also affects everyone and which has a special influence on those most disadvantaged countries. The agreement has entered into force with the support of more than fifty-five countries that are responsible for more than 55% of the world's CO2 emissions and Spain has not been there. Spain comes late, once again, to the fight against climate change but arrives. That's why we have a divided heart today. On the one hand, we are pleased that the Government has realized that we cannot further delay this situation, that the situation of leniency that had been established in the Government in relation to the fight against climate change could not continue and has brought this agreement here. On the other hand, we are sad because we are late, because it is a shame that a country like this comes late to an agreement like that of Paris. An agreement that we made in Catalonia, which was made yours in this House and today the parliamentary groups have the opportunity to ratify this agreement that the Government is presenting to us. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are going to support today, the ratification of the late Paris Agreement is important for the fight against climate change, but it is also important for the most disadvantaged countries that we cannot forget at times like these, where global warming affects them particularly. Therefore, minister, I ask you not to allow yourself not to start trying. We did not need to ratify this agreement to start fighting and taking action against climate change, and we have not. Now that we no longer have an excuse not to, let's do it. Let us fight climate change and start investing the 120 million extra committed funds where it touches us. Please do not be allowed to try again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u211	Thank you very much. For the PNV Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u212	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak very briefly. As a group, we celebrate the Paris Agreement and claim the sub-state role for global climate governance, no doubt. The Basque Country was a founding partner in 2012 of the Network of Regional Governments for Sustainable Development. Our economy is growing by reducing emissions and our country is chairing the European section of The Climate Group, which links forty-four regional and local governments around the world. Our lehendakari, Íñigo Urkullu, presented in Paris last week the contribution of this group to reduce half of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and to 80% by 2050, in an area inhabited by 315 million people, which represents an eighth part of the world economy. I believe that it is to be welcomed and I would only ask the Spanish Government - as last week in the Committee on Climate Change, between the different groups, to address the matter and to arrive at some unanimity on some criteria - to be courageous, to take on the challenges, to take on the commitments that this House is asking for, because it is not just a question of now, but that in other previous agreements the commitments made since Kyoto are an obligation for the State in its part and to work with the different autonomous communities that are competent in environmental matters so that we can all achieve the achievements that were set at the time for climate change, since it is going to affect us, to do it as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u213	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u214	Thank you, Madam President. It has been almost a year since the Paris agreements. We reaffirm that they have not given everything they expected, but if we compare it to Copenhagen, at last many have realized that doing nothing is the worst solution. If there is one thing that has been achieved in these six years is that it has been marginalized to those we would call climatesceptic, like that cousin of Rajoy who said he did not exist. It is true that some, not a few, Americans have given their vote to Donald Trump thinking that climate change does not exist. But, despite these last misfortunes, we will not be wrong if we say that the majority of the population now admits that the climate is changing, that this can lead to disaster and that action must be taken to curb it. Possibly this change in people's perception is the best that has happened to us, as it will certainly lead many companies to change their attitude for the strong impact on public opinion. The Paris Agreement is not binding, which is why it obliges us to draw up a basic law that, in coordination with the autonomous communities, can make this outstanding work effective. The Parliament of Catalonia is working on this. I'm gonna start finishing my intervention by saying it wouldn't be wrong... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u215	Quiet, please. Keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u216	...that the Commission for the Study of Climate Change should be legislative and could address this future law as a clear and monographic element in order to make progress. And now I end up saying that in L'Homme I revolted Abert Camus questioning us saying that the true generosity with the future is to give it all in the present. Let's listen to him because by listening to a poet we will not be wrong. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u217	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u218	Thank you, Madam President. They have had to spend almost 20 years since the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, going through Kyoto and Copenhagen, to make the world aware of climate change and its dire consequences and to put it into the Paris agreements, which is what we are dealing with and what we are dealing with today in this House. Talking about climate change means talking about people's health, prosperity and security, and it is undoubtedly the greatest threat we face as a nation. It is at stake the life of the planet itself and that there is no irreparable and irreversible damage to our ecosystems, which in the end are the source of life. The future of our planet depends on the global commitment to reduce greenhouse gases and keep the global temperature of the planet below 2 degrees Celsius with respect to the pre-industrial era. No country alone can cope with this threat. It is not a question of size, population, armies or economic powers, but a planetary problem created by man, which has been using as the basis for its economic development the burning of fossil fuels for two hundred years. The Paris Agreement is the principle of a model of social and economic development that must be different and the awareness that more than 196 countries that were present at the signing have come to join their destiny to fight together and meet this challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no time, no time, no time. The year 2015 has been the warmest since we have had climate records for one hundred thirty-six years. Spain, due to its geographical location within Europe, is one of the most exposed and vulnerable countries to the consequences of climate change. Spain cannot be a spectator, but we must be actors and take the lead in mitigation and adaptation policies, and promote clean energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. They are not good measures such as the sun tax, penalising the energy consumption of a clean and cheap energy, or the increase that Spain has experienced in 2015 of greenhouse gases, which have increased by 3.2% compared to the previous year, unlike the rest of the countries of the European Union, which have been reducing greenhouse gases for years and which have reduced their emissions by almost 4.1%. The Paris Agreement is not perfect, it has some deficits: it does not set binding emission reduction targets and it does not set criminalization mechanisms to ensure that they are met, so that each country can set its own targets, which can be unscrupulous. We believe that the European Union, as well as having a common foreign policy, must also have a common energy policy and be an active part of this leadership. We must be ambitious. It is not just about reducing greenhouse gases, it is about betting on a model of economy and society where countries can grow and prosper without endangering the planet. In short, it is a question of dissociating economic growth and energy production from the increase in greenhouse gas emissions, and this is achieved with greater energy efficiency and a commitment by renewable energies. [[Rumors]] Of course we will ratify this treaty. It is about completing it over time, as we move forward, with effective emission control and enforcement measures, and in this the European Union must be a leader. We hope that in the forthcoming development of the climate change law that is announced to us, we will be courageous and able to reach consensus and advocate a climate change law that will serve future generations, ensuring the future of the next generations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u219	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to Mr López de Uralde Garmendia, I would remind you once again that it is an absolute disrespect to be speaking while a speaker intervenes. It is a lack of respect and what may have seemed normal at some point is not normal. Let's not turn what's not normal into normal. We are here to listen to the speaker and everyone has his speaking time, and I ask you please to respect the people who are taking the floor. I hope and hope that this will be the case and that there will be respect in this House, respect for each and every one of the speakers. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u220	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as 1992, twenty-five years ago, at the Rio de Janeiro Summit, we had a tool, the United Nations Framework Convention against Climate Change, which was precisely aware of the seriousness of this problem. Twenty-five years have passed and unfortunately the situation has only worsened. Greenhouse gas emissions - the emissions that cause climate change - continue to increase year after year. If in 1992 we were at 21 gigatonnellates of CO2, today global emissions have increased to 33 gigatonnellates of CO2. At the moment, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is at 400 parts per million, that is, within the limits of what the scientific community has warned us that it is leading us to catastrophic climate change. Unfortunately, the lack of political will has made the process of international negotiations go from failure to failure: the Kyoto Protocol took eight years to enter into force, from the year 1997 when it was signed until 2005; the Copenhagen Summit was left in a rosary of unfulfilled commitments, and so we reached the Paris Summit in 2015. The Paris Agreement, ladies and gentlemen, let us not deceive ourselves, is a necessary but absolutely insufficient agreement. If the commitments of the Paris Agreement countries are fulfilled from now on, they would lead us to an increase in global average temperatures of 3 degrees Celsius, when the scientific community has warned us over and over again that we should under no circumstances exceed the 1.5 degrees increase in global average temperatures. Therefore, the Paris Agreement, which we are fortunately going to ratify today, is a necessary but insufficient agreement. Moreover, this agreement comes to this House late; it comes to this House late because it has already entered into force, it has already been ratified by over a hundred countries and the first summit has already taken place after the Paris Summit, which was the Marrakech Summit, just a few days ago. It is late for the lack of political will of the People's Party Government to bring it to this Congress in due course. It was used as an excuse that the Government was in office; however, the same excuse was not used to approve the signing of the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, CETA. It shows that the political will of this Government to promote free trade is different from that of combating climate change. This lack of political will leads us to increase emissions in Spain in 2015 by 3.5%. We therefore continue to increase emissions and to aggravate climate change. Moreover, according to data from Oxfam Intermón, Spain has contributed only 1% of what it must contribute to climate change funds. We are therefore faced with a situation in which our Government unfortunately does not face its responsibility in this very important struggle. Let us hope that this ratification is definitely the change of course because we understand that Spain, being a victim of climate change, must make the fight against climate change an opportunity to boost our economy through a change of energy model by promoting renewable energies. Go ahead with the Paris Agreement, but, don't be fooled, this is not a final point, it's just the beginning. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u221	For the Socialist Group, Mr García Mira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last October, the requirement for the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, i.e. formal acceptance by fifty-five countries accounting for at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions, was met. At the close of the Marrakech Conference, a total of one hundred and eleven countries had already ratified the agreement, more than three quarters of global emissions. Regrettably, the Government of the People's Party has not appreciated the importance and opportunity of Spain being part of the countries that promoted entry into force. Trump's victory in the U.S. presidential elections was no obstacle to more than two hundred countries signing, with the highest level of political commitment, the one known as the Marrakech Declaration to combat climate change and reduce its impacts. It is not a document linking the parties, but it will guide the way in which political action should be designed for the drafting of a normative text allowing for the practical implementation of the agreement. Spain is running late, which we regret, but we are pleased that the responsibilities are finally being assumed. The deadline for 2018 has been set for the implementation of the rules that will put this agreement into effect. The Marrakech Conference, to which we had the honour to attend representing this Parliament, served to better understand the many issues involved in improving the architecture of the issues contained in the agreement to outline the areas of convergence and divergence and also to adopt a work plan, the Paris Regulation - the Paris Rulebook -, which includes mitigation, adaptation, finance and transparency, but also market mechanisms, implementation and compliance with commitments on which to make final decisions starting in 2018, when the IPCC, the UN expert group, will make a new report on the impact of climate change and temperature increases. There are, however, still outstanding issues to be resolved over the next two years. Adaptation and mitigation of the impact of climate change will require additional funding. The signing of a convention to implement the Climate Change Adaptation Fund will require further negotiations. Another outstanding issue is the Green Climate Fund, which will require more funding. In short, the fight against climate change does not end in this treaty. As politicians, we face a responsibility in developing policies to support decision-making in this area. Spain and its autonomous communities must be seriously involved in commitments to reduce emissions and transform their energy systems in order to produce energy 100 per cent renewable and introduce energy management co-efficiency systems. In conclusion, the implications of signing this agreement lead us to implement policies and protocols to act with the prospect of the next two years and to design the necessary financial and transparency procedures, which includes assuming responsibilities for the construction of this regulatory architecture necessary for the implementation of political action, but also fulfilling the commitments of the agreement at the planetary level and implementing national policies that reduce CO2 emissions in all sectors of the economy and the tools to comply with them. Identifying these policies will also require exploring the most effective combinations, given the cross-cutting nature of how climate change should be addressed. This treaty and its ratification can be seen as a reference point of expansion, a tippin point that the British would say, which points to the moment when the idea of combating climate change becomes an irreversible social trend that turns and spreads without return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u223	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Bajo Prieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us here are going to participate in a historic day to combat climate change: we will adopt the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs ratifying the Paris Agreement, an agreement that achieves universal participation by all countries so that the increase in the global average temperature of the planet is well below 2 degrees Celsius with regard to pre-industrial levels and reflects the greatest possible ambition to reduce the risks and impacts of climate change in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we may regret the delay in having a government with the confidence of the House, which under no circumstances has been the intention or fault of the People's Party, but regretting the delay in ratifying the Paris Agreement is a nonsense because it is not due to any deficit of will or to not doing things right, it is because, as you know, a government in office cannot ratify an international treaty of this kind. Moreover, they would have to congratulate the Government and the General Courts on the speed of ratification of the agreement; a parliamentary procedure that usually takes six months is carried out within a month. Today is a very important day for our country and should be a very important day for the politicians that we are part of the Climate Change Commission, and, above all, it is evidence of the commitment and responsibility of this Government and its President in the fight against global warming. As Ban Ki-moon said, we are the last generation that can try to prevent climate change. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u225	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, in advance of the vote, the First Secretary will read an institutional statement commemorating the International Day of Action against AIDS. The first secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u227	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow Thursday, as every 1 December, marks the International Day of Action against AIDS. Despite the progress that has been made in the fight against this disease, according to UN data, HIV is still a global public health problem. Since the disease became known, 78 million people worldwide have contracted the infection and 35 million people have died from HIV-related diseases. In 2015, 36,700,000 people live with the disease. Over 2 million people were infected during that year, including 150,000 boys and girls. The Congress of Deputies declares its commitment to a day that aims to raise awareness, raise awareness and act against this global epidemic and, in particular, to the 90-90-90 goals of UNUSIDA for 2020, which seek to ensure that 90% of people with HIV know their HIV status, that 90% of people who know they have the infection are treated and that 90% of those who receive the virus are eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, the Paris Declaration of 2014, signed by mayors and mayors from all over the world, is a commitment to continue putting cities at the forefront of the HIV response and placing them in a unique position to lead accelerated actions towards achieving the 90-90-90 targets by 2020. The achievement of these objectives aims to end the AIDS epidemic by 2030. The obvious progress that has been made in the fight against HIV in Spain must not make us forget that today we must still focus our efforts on the first of these objectives: that 90% of the infected people know their situation and that even today people with HIV carry on their shoulders a social stigma to which from this House we must help to defeat. People with HIV not only need medical and pharmacological treatment, they also need to break down the glass wall that still prevents them from accessing full integration of rights into the social and labour world, so it remains necessary to put in place effective measures to reduce the stigma and discrimination of this disease in all social spheres. In order to achieve these objectives, the Congress of Deputies considers it necessary to seek a broad consensus on HIV policies that will allow a stable framework for action in relation to this disease. It also reiterates Spain's commitment to the Global Fund against AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis, and the strengthening of awareness-raising campaigns and promotion of the early diagnosis of the virus. All this, ladies and gentlemen, in memory of all those who have died as a result of this epidemic, in memory of those who still suffer it, as well as of the organizations and professionals who dedicate their lives to fighting AIDS or to caring for those who suffer from this disease. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, the vote will begin. [[Pause]] We vote, first of all, on the motions for resolutions tabled in connection with the debate on the report on the state, operation and activities of the General Council of the Judiciary and the courts and tribunals for 2014. I announce that there are many votes and the time to vote, instead of the usual fifteen seconds, will be ten seconds; therefore, let us all be very careful and work together to ensure that the vote is carried out effectively. Motions for resolutions tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Proposal number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 117 against, 206 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u230	It's rejected. Proposal No 2, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 323 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u231	It's approved. Proposal number 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 168 against, 124 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u232	It's approved. Proposal number 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 196 against, 124 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u233	It's approved. Proposal number 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 107 against, 211 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u234	It's rejected. Proposal number 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 199 against, 124 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u235	It's approved. Proposal number 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 118 against, 122 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u236	It's rejected. Proposal number 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 116 against, 126 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u237	It's rejected. Proposal number 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour 242 against 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u238	It's approved. Proposal number 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 321 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u239	It's approved. Proposal number 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 118 against, 123 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u240	It's rejected. Proposal No 12, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 117 against 205.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u241	It's rejected. Proposal number 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 201 against, 121 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u242	It's approved. Proposal No 14, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 200 abstentions, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u243	It's approved. Proposal No 15, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 198; 124 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u244	It's approved. Proposal No 16, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 83 against, 157 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u245	It's rejected. Proposal No 17, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 199 against, 124 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u246	It's approved. Proposal No 18, which is also voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 81 against, 240 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u247	It's rejected. Proposal number 19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 83 against, 240 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u248	It's rejected. Proposal No 20, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 116 against, 124 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u249	It's rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on proposal 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 200 against, 123 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u250	It's approved. We move on to proposal 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 116 against, 207.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u251	It's rejected. Proposal number 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 82 against, 128 abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u252	It's rejected. We move on to proposal 24. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 190 against, 127 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u253	It's approved. Proposal number 25. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour 168 against 156.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u254	It's approved. We shall then vote on proposals 26, 27 and 28. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 85 against, 238 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u255	They're rejected. We are now voting on proposal 29, in the terms of amendment 23 of the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 240 against, 82 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u256	It's approved. We are voting on proposal 30, which is being voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 85 against, 156 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u257	It's rejected. We voted on proposal 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 269 against, 5 abstentions, 49.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u258	It's approved. We shall vote on proposals 32, 33 and 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes cast; 322 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u259	They shall be adopted unanimously. We turn to proposals 35 and 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 241 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u260	They're approved. We now proceed to vote on proposal 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 118 against, 2 abstentions, 203.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u261	It's approved. We move on to 38 and 43, which are voted on jointly. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes cast; 324 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u262	They're approved. Proposal 39, The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 85 against, 124 abstentions, 115.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u263	It's rejected. We then voted on Amendment No 40, in the terms of Amendment No 24, by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 239 against, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u264	It's approved. Proposal 41. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 200 against, 105 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u265	It's approved. We then vote on proposal 42, in the terms of Amendment No 6, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 240 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u266	It's approved. Proposal 44. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour 199 against 125.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u267	It's approved. We voted on proposal 45, in the terms of Amendment 7 of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 322 against, 1 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u268	It's approved. We then proceed to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Firstly, proposal 46, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 83 against, 156 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u269	It's rejected. Proposal 47, which is also voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 80 against, 240 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u270	It's rejected. We voted on proposal 48, in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 84 against, 240.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u271	It's rejected. Proposals 49 and 50. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 167 against, 124 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u272	It's approved. Proposal 51. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 116 against, 124 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u273	It's rejected. We voted on proposal 52, in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 323.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u274	It's approved. We voted on proposal 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes cast; 324 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u275	It's approved. We voted on proposal 54. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 84 against, 156 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u276	It's rejected. We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Firstly, proposal 55, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 40 against, 130 abstentions, 154.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u277	It's rejected. We voted on proposals 56, 57, 59 and 63 to 67. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 247 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u278	They're approved. We shall now vote on proposals 58 and 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 121 against, 125 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u279	They're rejected. We now proceed to vote on proposal 60. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 36 against, 127 abstentions, 160.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u280	It's rejected. We voted on proposal 61. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 165 against, 83 abstentions, 74.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u281	It's approved. We shall now vote on proposal 68, in the terms of amendment 29, of the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 163 against, 83 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u282	It's approved. We now vote on proposal 69. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 163 abstentions, 158.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u283	It's approved. We voted for proposal 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 121 against, 1 abstentions, 199.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u284	It's approved. We shall now proceed to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs. We begin with proposals 71 and 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 85 against, 238.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u285	They're rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on proposal 72, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 85 against, 237 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u286	It's rejected. We shall then vote on proposal 73, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 83 against, 208 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u287	It's rejected. We now vote on proposals 74, 87, 90 and 96. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 199 against, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u288	They're approved. We voted on proposals 75 and 95. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 83 against, 156 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u289	They're rejected. We are now voting together on proposals 77, 85, 89 and 91. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 320 against, 1 abstention, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u290	They're approved. We voted on proposal 78. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 169 against, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u291	It's approved. We voted on proposals 79, 81 and 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 83 against 239.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u292	They're rejected. We are now voting on Amendment No 80, in the terms of Amendment No 31, by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes cast; 321 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u293	It's approved. We now vote on proposal 82 and 84. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 83 against, 126 abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u294	They're rejected. We voted on proposal 83. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 84 against, 204 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u295	It's rejected. We now vote on number 86. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 241 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u296	It's approved. We now vote on proposal 92. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 116 against, 125 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u297	It's rejected. We voted on proposal 93. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 115 against, 209.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u298	It's rejected. We are now voting on proposal 94, in the terms of Amendment 32, of the People's Parliamentary Group. The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 209 against, 82 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u299	It's approved. We shall now proceed to the motions for resolutions tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group. Firstly, proposal 97, which is voted on in its terms. [[Mr. Bataller]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 84 against, 238 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u300	It's rejected. We now proceed to vote on proposal 98. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 200 against, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u301	It's approved. We shall now proceed to vote on proposal No 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 116 against, 124 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u302	It's rejected. We shall then vote on proposal No 100, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 166 against, 155.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u303	It's approved. We shall now proceed to the motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group. Firstly, proposals 101 and 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 247 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u304	They're approved. We shall now proceed to vote on proposal 103, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 243 against, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u305	It's approved. We voted on proposal 104. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 163 abstentions, 161.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u306	It's approved. We now proceed to vote on number 105. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 247 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u307	It's approved. We shall now proceed to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Group. Firstly, proposal 106, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 322 against, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u308	It's approved. We shall now vote on 108, 111 and 127. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 199 against, 124 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u309	They're approved. We voted on proposal 110, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 323.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u310	It's approved. We vote on 115, which is also voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes cast; 324 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u311	It's approved. We voted on proposals 117 and 126. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 292 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u312	They're approved. We are voting on proposal 118, which is being voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 165 against, 125 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u313	It's approved. We shall now vote on the rest of the proposals. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 323 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u314	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-30-CD161130.u315	We then vote on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, the Paris Agreement, made in Paris on 12 December 2015, and the statement that Spain wishes to make. Does the House agree to its approval by consent? [[Consent]] The opinion was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was two and thirty minutes in the afternoon. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 18, corresponding to the plenary session number 17, held on Tuesday 29 November 2016, on page 2, in the first point of the Summary, Oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution by new members of parliament, it must also be stated Mrs Isabel Cabezas Regaño.
