ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. In place of Doña Irene Garrido Valenzuela, I ask Don Tomás Javier Fole Díaz if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u3	In place of don José Enrique Fernández de Moya Romero, I ask don Javier Calvente Gallego if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u4	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u5	In place of Mrs Matilde Pastora Asian González, I ask Mrs Celia Alberto Pérez if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u6	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u7	Mr Tomás Javier Fole Díaz, Mr Javier Calvente Gallego and Mrs Celia Alberto Pérez have acquired full status as Members of Parliament. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u8	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the Chamber the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of items 31 and 32, corresponding to the motions for resolutions submitted on the occasion of the debate on the report on the state, operation and activities of the General Council of the Judiciary and the courts and tribunals for 2014, and to the proposal of the Committee on Culture to create a sub-committee for the elaboration of an artist's statute, respectively. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of reference points is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u9	We begin with the first item on the agenda: Take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the fixing of the amount of the interprofessional minimum wage. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and distinguished guests. Today we are bringing forward a proposal for legislative reform which, above all considerations, is necessary and of common sense. Today we take into consideration a proposal for a law on the interprofessional minimum wage. What is the purpose of this law? Especially three things. First of all, dignification. We propose a substantial increase in the minimum wage so that the amount is sufficient to lead a decent standard of living. Secondly, guarantees. The amount should be revalued at the beginning of each year at least on the basis of the planned CPI and should be revised on 1 January of each year in case the actual CPI exceeds the planned CPI. Third, concretion. By 1 January 2018, EUR 800; by 2020, EUR 950, finally fulfilling the mandate of the European Social Charter. Why? Because the importance of establishing a soil of working conditions has not disappeared, but on the contrary, inequality is growing and the situation of poverty and exclusion makes it indispensable. Poverty, ladies and gentlemen, is not a natural state, it is not a physical law or a phenomenon of nature, poverty has causes, and in Spain many of them have to do with the precarious reforms of the People's Party, which have counted, yes, with the invaluable collaboration of the artist formerly known as Convergence i Unió. Statistics and numerous studies show the accumulation of income and wealth in the highest percentages, the transfer of income from the bottom and the center up and the sinking of middle and middle income, that is, the gradual disappearance of the middle class and the expansion of the lower class and poverty. There has been much talk lately of this new and emerging category of poor workers. Having a job is no longer synonymous with job stability and even less economic. The job that is being generated is of worse quality than the one that is being destroyed, and that is thanks to their labour reforms. It is so precarious that in Spain and throughout Europe this new category of work has become widespread and one in ten employees are poor because of temporaryity, rotation or low wages. According to a recently published Caritas study, 14.8% of workers are poor and the figure is up to 44.8% for people who are unemployed. With or without work, women are the most affected by poverty. In all job ranges they charge less than men, about five euros per hour. One of the conclusions reached by a recent report by the Generalitat de Catalunya is that it is believed that almost half of women would be poor if they had to depend solely on their income. And why? Because of the part-time work, the wage gap, the underemployment, the scrapping to which you are subjecting to public services, which of course goes at the expense of the women of this country, or because of the low social value given to the largely feminized sectors, that is, because of the heteropatriarchal culture and the reforms of the People's Party. Today, for a working woman, the risk of falling into poverty continues to grow despite the supposed recovery. Inequality must be combated not only by its destructive consequences on people's lives, but also by its factor with a great impact on growth and its contribution to stagnation. To more inequality, lower wages, greater decapitalisation of workers, increased structural unemployment and, of course, less demand. In the fight against inequality the minimum wage has a fundamental role: to establish the minimum part of the wealth that belongs precisely to those who have generated all the wealth. But I wonder: what is the point of a minimum wage if it is below the poverty line? Tell me, what can a person do with 655,20 euros - taking into account the amounts, 20 cents are important - a month? Let me give you a practical example because of the fact that we do not have to compare the minimum wage with the salaries of your ladies and gentlemen. Today, in Barcelona, it's practically impossible to find a rental below 700 euros; we don't even talk about the shopping cart or the transport, because you can't even get to the rental from the start. While the price of the square metre has risen by 287 % in the last 20 years, wages have only risen by 51 %. I know that for many of you it is not, but the fact is that the minimum wage is a very close reference for so many people; for thousands of people in our country it is their only livelihood. If in 2008 the volume of workers earning less than the minimum wage was 8.8%, in 2014 it was already close to 14%, more than four points above the minimum wage. Today, more than 5.5 million workers are earning less than the minimum wage; more than 3.5 million earn salaries that, at most, reach half the minimum wage and 2 million have salaries that are close to the minimum wage. We could remind them of the words that the Minister spoke today in the Toledo Pact Commission, in which she told us that a bad job is better than a non-employment. [[Rumors]] To that it seems that the responsibility of the Executive is reduced, I suppose, to give us to choose between Guatemala and Guatemala. Lucky for us, isn't it? Workers have lost 11% of purchasing power over the last few years because of the fall in wages and the rise in the CPI, and there are measures that have favoured it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u11	One second, Mrs. Vidal. The speaker was not heard. Please, I beg your silence. The conversations you have between yourselves, if you want to have them, would have to have them outside, because here we are to listen to the speaker. Go ahead, Mrs. Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u12	Thank you, Madam President. To encourage company agreements to avoid the protection of the sectoral agreement has, for example, led to a sharp fall in the wages of many workers, especially women workers. Today morning I set this same example for the minister. In the trade sector, the National Court has annulled forty-four company agreements created to bring down the sector agreement, i.e. created to pay less to its workers. Their reform serves that purpose, to convict thousands of workers in this country. But in this story not all characters run the same luck. According to the latest wage survey, the annual salary of directors and managers was 130% higher than the average wage. While the middle class was sinking, the richest 1% saw its profits rise to 40%. Only from cynicism can one ensure that wages do not rise because there is no money. By the way, in the face of the death of an older woman last week in Reus because of energy poverty, I can't help but mention that the energy sector, with companies like Natural Gas at the front, beats records both in wages and in profits. Money, there is, only some people lose their greed and care more about the benefits than people's lives, but let's go back to the minimum wage. While in 2004, with the Government of Zapatero, it experienced a remarkable rise proportionally - and it must be said -, the evolution of the minimum wage is a sad story of freezing and ridiculous rises, which have allowed any sign of purchasing power to be devalued and lost year after year. In nine years it has risen 55,20 euros -55 euros in nine years - and the last increase, this year, has been 6,80 euros, which does not even give for a lunch menu. The amount set by the Ministry of Employment and Social Security for the minimum wage this year has been 0.5% higher than in the previous year. This is a political decision and you, the People's Party government, have decided one more year to laugh at the entire working class. They have decided that the minimum wage should remain below the poverty line. Let us leave Spain and see how it goes to other European countries. Do you know, for example, that the minimum wage in the Spanish State is half that in Belgium or that in the United Kingdom it is 1,343 euros and 1,466 in France?, and that does not reach 1,922 in Luxembourg. The fact is that there are many international treaties that oblige Spain to guarantee minimums, namely Convention No. 131 of the International Labour Organization. This agreement obliges Spain, in the words of the agreement itself, to ensure protection of workers against unduly low wages, and to this end minimum wages will have the force of law and will not be able to be reduced, having to be established on the basis not only of parameters of an economic nature of general interest, but also taking into account the needs of workers and their families, taking into account the general interest of wages in the country. But he doesn't stay here. ILO Convention 131 requires the regulation of mechanisms adapted to their national conditions and needs, making it possible to set and adjust minimum wages from time to time, all through consultations with trade unions and employers'organizations and, of course, respecting freedom of collective bargaining. I know that protection, mechanisms, general interest, collective bargaining are words that you, the Group of the European People's Party, are alien to, but they are certainly important to international bodies. It is not just Convention 131; it is followed by cavalry: the European Social Charter, which is the most important standard born of the European Council. It has to do with a specific European model, an inclusive model, of economic, social and civil rights. The European Social Charter is a cornerstone of social Europe. Article 4.2, on how to guarantee the right to equitable remuneration, states that the contracting parties undertake to recognize the right of workers to adequate remuneration to provide them and their families with a decent standard of living. The European Committee of Social Rights issued on 23 January 2015 its annual report on Spain's compliance with the European Social Charter, and - they won't believe it - we were red. The report denounced serious breaches in the areas of wages, labour, collective bargaining and, of course, trade union freedom. The resolution mentions seven breaches of Spain's obligations under these international standards, in addition to reserve its opinion on a number of matters on which the Government - it seems - has not provided them with sufficient information to be able to pronounce. The first of the non-compliances, as it could not otherwise be, mentions the interprofessional minimum wage. The Committee considers that the minimum wage established by the Government and the Budget Act does not ensure a decent standard of living; but the decent concept can be very broad, and recalls that, in order to ensure a decent standard of living, remuneration must be above the minimum threshold, set at 60% of the average net wage. These international treaties are part of the domestic order and we therefore demand compliance with them. But not all legal precedents are found in international treaties. We can also use the Constitution. Article 35 of the Spanish Constitution, in addition to affirming that all Spaniards have the duty and the right to work, recognizes the right of workers to adequate remuneration to meet their needs and those of their families. Do you think that 655,20 euros are enough to satisfy any need? If we understand that the right to work is fundamental and that it must be protected and duly remunerated, let us do so. This law does so and has a dual objective: to establish a minimum wage sufficient to guarantee the needs of workers and finally to comply with international treaties, particularly the European Social Charter. Therefore, the amounts set correspond to 60% of the average wage. This is a realistic law no matter how many people say. It is a realistic law, since it gives a time frame for the adjustment of the minimum wage throughout a whole legislature. But above all, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it is a just, necessary and common sense law, with a clear impact on the fight against poverty and social exclusion. Today we do not discuss the specific wording of this law; for this there will be sufficient time and in our parliamentary group we will be happy to discuss and reach agreements with all of you. Today we vote that we can discuss a key issue such as the minimum wage. So let us do our work. I just finish with Ovidi Montllor. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u13	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u14	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. As Mrs Vidal Sáez has pointed out, article 35 of the Constitution refers to the right to work and to sufficient remuneration to meet the personal and family needs of every worker. Also, among other texts, Spain's accession to the European Social Charter gives us the right to a fair remuneration, in which it is considered that the net minimum wage should not be less than 60% of the average state wage. These objectives have never been achieved in Spain, but to achieve them is undoubtedly due to economic growth and the fight against unemployment with the gradual creation of jobs. These are the only prescriptions known so that the Spaniards reach, among other needs, the sufficiency of a gradual interprofessional minimum wage parallel to our economic development. A number of references such as CPI, productivity, exchange rates and the international market, among others, have always been taken into account in setting the inter-professional minimum wage. For the adoption of measures that have a multiplier effect on the economy, one must consider in a very special way a latent risk that surprisingly does not appear nor is mentioned in the initiative of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. That risk factor for the economy as a whole is called inflation. It is now becoming a custom for the United States to raise issues that, if they were to be completed, would have as a counterpart the mismanagement of expenditure, which would lead - among other effects - to a very damaging inflation for the economy and the pocket of all Spaniards and their families. Ladies and gentlemen, any form of labour tyranny must be combated in the pursuit of decent work. At the Forum we consider the interprofessional minimum wage as an instrument to avoid slave labour, understanding as such a normal day that is not sufficiently remunerated and therefore does not cover a person's basic needs. We think it is very important to reiterate that the succession of unchecked economic measures would destabilise the accounts and, worse, would have harmful consequences on purchasing power that will have a very negative and regressive impact on all Spaniards, including the unemployed, the lower-income people and the pensioners. In fact, last Friday's newly-released labour price index, the new official data of the INE, offered an alarming figure: wages were devalued - those of Andalusia and Asturias the most - and the purchasing power of the Spaniards was reduced by 10% in the crisis. The possibility of delving into that risk is ignored in a law for which it is proposed to be taken into consideration this afternoon and which I will reject with my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u16	Pick it up on. Firstly, on behalf of Euskal Herria Bildu, I would like to thank the proposing group for bringing this initiative to debate in this House. We believe that it is a matter of vital urgency or vital urgency, as everyone wants to understand, because it is aimed at preserving the life and dignity of people; ultimately, lives worthy of being lived, something that connects with the political action and fundamental purposes of Euskal Herria Bildu in our country, in Euskal Herria. Today, in 2016, we have to attend the burial of the evil state of well-being and the certification of a state that is content with, through charity, sharing misery, because there is no other way to call the interprofessional minimum wage that currently rules throughout the Spanish state than that of misery. That being the case, ladies and gentlemen of the government and political parties that support it, does it not embarrass you to offer your citizens, those you have impoverished with cuts, with your policy of submitting to the troika, with minimum interprofessional wages such as the one that brings us to debate, a salary of 650 euros a month? Do any of you think you can survive month after month with 650 euros? Would any of you accept such a salary for yourself or for your sons and daughters? Because don't be fooled, you, we, and we know that, unfortunately, for people who enter the labour market, those wages become their soil and their roof. Salaries of 650 euros a month as we see how large companies and their managers cash in millions a month; that's how companies get rich, with political coverage that allows them to legally rob workers for the enrichment of a few. It has been so while they have ruled as much as they have for many years. Nor have there been great differences in this. We must point out that Euskal Herria Bildu does not share the literality of the proposal presented, because we do not believe that setting an interprofessional minimum wage for the whole of the uniform and linear state is the best way to address the differences that currently exist in the Spanish state. We again miss that they do not take into account the differentiated national realities of the current Spanish State, also in economic terms, because the need for life is certainly not the same in one place as in another; probably living in one place or living in another requires more or less economic resources. You claim an interprofessional minimum wage of EUR 800 per month. From our point of view, it is clearly insufficient for any citizen of the Spanish State, but even more so for Basque citizens as a whole. Using its calculation, based on the European Social Charter, the interprofessional minimum wage in Euskadi would have to be 1,288 euros and in Nafarroa of 1,234 euros. It is our will to change everything so that we can also change these kinds of measures in our country. We have always been and will be in solidarity with the working class of the Spanish State. As someone said more than three decades ago, what unites us with the Basque workers and the Spanish and French workers is not belonging to the same nation, but belonging to the same class. That is why, and despite the differences, we will support the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also grateful for this initiative that Mrs Vidal has defended. I must start by recalling that last week the Committee on Employment, on a proposal from the Democratic Party, approved the following mandate with the votes of a broad majority of the House: We urge the Government to agree with the most representative trade unions and business associations and listening to the autonomous communities a timetable for a continuous increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, which will enable it to reach within the next four years the objective of placing it at EUR 12,000 per year and, subsequently, in accordance with the European Social Charter, to place it permanently at around 60% of the average net wage. It is a clear mandate to which a majority of this House committed itself, which also ties in with another mandate approved in the last legislature, on the proposal of the Democratic Party and the Republican Left, in which we also reiterated the need for an increase in the minimum wage. That is a first element to be highlighted. There is a very broad coincidence in the House that the minimum wage must increase. In addition, there is also a broad coincidence in the House - perhaps not all groups are in it - that wage devaluation no longer makes sense and that we have a problem of inequalities arising from the malfunctioning of our labour market which affects the different wage levels and therefore affects the movement of the minimum wage. There may be less recourse to the argument that this is also a discussion about the competitive model we are betting on and the type of employment we want to create. Better jobs are essential to have a productive model that is capable of competing in value-added goods and services and not competing in low wages. That is a conviction the Democratic Party wants to express. We also want to say that it is impossible to finance a good welfare state, it is impossible to have a good public pension system without good wages. Therefore, the battle for the improvement of the minimum wage and the battle for the improvement of wages is also the battle for the sustainability of the public pension system that we were debating this morning. With the friends of Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we can disagree on the rhythms to achieve this goal, and it is no matter less that the rate of growth of the minimum wage must be accompanied in time in order not to harm the creation of employment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the process of this legislative initiative we will certainly have to change the rhythms that arise for us, and, in addition, together with other groups, we will propose that single minimum wages for the whole of Spain are unfair to workers in the territories where life is most expensive and that, therefore, we must open up the possibility of different autonomous minimum wages according to the cost of living in order to allow better wages. In any case, they're going to have our support today. It's a matter of decency. Decent wages mark a worthy society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u19	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the specific content of the proposal that has been put to us by the United Podemos, the truth is that this is an absolutely unreplaceable debate. The explanatory part - brilliant, on the other hand - reminds us that both the content of the ILO Convention and of Article 4.2 of the European Social Charter deduces the need to guarantee to all workers the right - it literally points out - to a fair remuneration, understood as a sufficient remuneration to provide workers and their families with a decent standard of living. After all, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely the guarantee of that decent level, of those minimum amounts without which a person could not be recognized in his or her dignity. That amount, ladies and gentlemen, has also been recognised by the European Social Charter itself in a given figure, which is that of 60% of the average net wage in the territory of each State, and that conclusion is in turn derived from certain statistics obtained from Regulation 1177/2003, which defines, among other things, the rate of risk of poverty, understood as an inverse amount which identifies as an income less than 60% of the equivalent national disposable income. That is to say, let us be clear on the first question. What we are talking about is whether or not we are going to condemn the workers to what the European Social Charter, to what the European regulations understand would constitute an income of poverty. That is why Article 4.2 of the European Social Charter requires this 60% minimum, precisely in order to avoid that remuneration, that the remuneration for work is not less than that amount, without which - I repeat - the living conditions of any worker would not be equivalent to conditions of dignity. However, ladies and gentlemen - as you know and as has also been repeated from this rostrum - the Royal Decree 1171/2015 - the last of the events - and the development of Article 27 of the Workers' Statute require an amount of the minimum interprofessional wage of 655,20 euros gross per month in fourteen paid; or, in other words, of 764 euros per month. A figure has also been pointed out in this rostrum and I would like to expand it, and it is that this minimum wage, in the last four years, has grown no more than EUR 13.46, which also gives an idea of the absolute impossibility that - especially in times of crisis like those we have experienced - no one has been able to deal with any vital need with that minimum wage. That progression, in quotes, is a condemnation; a condemnation that only those who can obtain that interprofessional minimum wage must, therefore, obtain a wage of poverty. This is what we cannot agree on, in a model which condemns every worker who receives the interprofessional minimum wage to be classified as poor. In this connection, it should be recalled that the third chapter of Title I of the Constitution, which deals with the guiding principles of social and economic policy, obliges the public authorities to promote favourable conditions for social and economic progress, and that would be impossible to achieve without a salary from which those characteristics of remuneration could be preached sufficient to meet their needs and those of their families, as set out in article 35 of the Constitution. Those and many other reasons that have been warned from this rostrum - by the way, previously Mr Carles Campuzano has stolen from me, to say the least, the idea of some of them and I share them - are those that compel my group to vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law, without prejudice to stating - as has also been said from this rostrum - that not all its full content is involved by my group. From our particular point of view, the debate that is taking place at the time must address different issues. Firstly, we believe that the minimum interprofessional wage must never abandon the 60% guarantee of the average territorial wage. Secondly, we believe that this guarantee should be taken into account in labour law, it is possible that in Article 27 of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute. Thirdly, and in view of the need for this debate to be preceded and conditioned by social dialogue, it is necessary to envisage its gradual application through appropriate transitional arrangements allowing for its application to be modulated within time limits which do not interfere in economic areas which may also be substantial. Finally - and also by sharing another of the manifestations that have been made in this forum - taking into account the difference in reality, both legal and economic, that characterizes the State and also taking into account the powers and competences that are contained in various statutes of autonomy, in particular in article 12.2 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country for the implementation of labour legislation, we will also request that consideration be given to the initiative to consider the existence of an authorization to the autonomous authorities in order to be able to specify a minimum wage of own territorial scope. We repeat, it is the duty of the public authorities to promote favourable conditions for the social and economic progress of individuals and societies. At the moment, avoiding this debate leads only to preventing the authorities and all those who have a responsibility from assuming it under the proper conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u21	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Who can live with 655,20 euros a month? This was the beginning of my speech last April on the non-legislative proposal presented by the Parliamentary Group of the European Democratic Party Català and Esquerra Republicana, which was passed in Congress with the omission of the government in office. This same proposal to raise the interprofessional minimum wage was also approved in the Employment Committee with the same result. Now, it is re-represented by the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Group and let us hope that today will be re-approved and that its processing will begin in the form of law. Let's think of people and think of 655,20 euros. There are people who can't wait more months for this to be approved. We are going to vote in favour of this proposal for a law, in particular the two articles proposed to us by Mrs Aina, for two reasons. The first reason, for dignity, humanity and because it is possible. And the second reason is for economic necessity. I explain myself, because of dignity and because we cannot allow a worker who works full-time forty hours a week to remain poor. The problem of low wages is not new and predates the so-called economic crisis, but the so-called crisis has undoubtedly accentuated it by the magnitude of the crisis and by the labour reforms imposed by collective bargaining, which has meant an increase in working hours and the imposition of a substantial reduction in wages. To such an extent that the inter-professional minimum wage - the one now occupied by us - is no longer a mere reference, but is the real wage of many workers. The Spanish minimum wage is well below that of other European countries - as we said in April and as Mrs Aina reminded us today - in France there are 1,458 euros; in Germany, 1,473; in Belgium, 1,502; in the United Kingdom, 1,379; in Ireland - a rescued country - it is located at 1,462 euros, and here we are with 655,20 euros. It is so flagrant that this inequality even violates the European Social Charter, which recognises that the minimum interprofessional wage should be at least 60%. In the Spanish State, however, 35 % of the average wage is not reached. This proposal seeks to change this situation and remove it from the poverty line, to rescue people and not banks, hundreds of thousands of citizens who have been evicted from their homes, who cannot afford to pay for electricity and water. It's data we all know. He said that we must process this law not only for dignity but also for purely economic, even selfish, reasons. To alleviate the living conditions of a considerable part of the population - which is also the worst - by raising the minimum wage is good for the economy. The rise in the minimum wage has a multiplier effect, as I said in recalling the study of the great economist Dr.Arrizabalo, by stimulating demand. By raising the minimum wage, consumption increases. When you charge 1,000 euros these 1,000 euros improve the economy in general, as they stay in the neighborhood, in the city or in the village and do not go to other places farther away, such as Panama. And they also improve the economy in general, because more needs to be produced to meet greater demand and this is equal to more people working, whose wages will in turn increase demand. In conclusion, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya does not renounce the creation of a Catalan framework of labour relations in which the interprofessional minimum wage for Catalonia is established. That is why I have already announced to you that, among other things, we are going to table amendments to that effect so that, for example, those communities that consider it appropriate can raise the interprofessional minimum wage in this particular case. This proposal fell down again in the Committee on Employment. I believe that if an autonomous community wants to raise the interprofessional minimum wage it is good for everyone; it is not social dumping down but it is social dumping up. For all this and much more, we are going to vote in favour of this measure and hope that, today, this law will begin to be processed because many people are in a hurry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u23	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a historic legislature, historic on various issues, many of them negative - which I am not going to enter today - but also positive. We have the opportunity to close once and for all the social gap that has torn this country, which is a land of cultivation where populist, demagogic and radical messages of different kinds are developed and which directly attack our social and democratic rule of law. It is our duty as representatives of all Spaniards to correct all the shortcomings that have occurred in the previous legislature. Today, the Confederal Group of United Podemos-In Communal Podemos-En Marea - and forgive if I forget any - brings us a proposal for consideration for the revaluation of the interprofessional minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that there is anyone in this House who is against this rise, as this is a social and distribution policy. I am telling you that my group will not be voting against today so that we can have a serious and profound reflection, according to the need that we all clearly have for this society. That, like all public policies, has to be taken into account in the context, and the context in which we find ourselves is our labour market, a labour market that I will not discover anything if I tell you that it has a high rate of temporality and a high rate of precariousness; a labour market where we have garbage contracts - people who enter and exit without tone and are - and with a low level of wages. Today we find about 6 million workers who do not arrive at the end of the month, poor workers who paradoxically, and despite being in an active position, cannot pay neither electricity nor gas nor, in many cases, commodities. It is in this context that we have to apply the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage that Mrs Vidal brings us for her consideration. It must be borne in mind that in a labour market where 25% of workers are constantly entering and leaving the labour market, this inter-professional minimum wage can clearly be inefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, this leads me to a simple question: is there any public policy that can improve, that can complete the situation of those 6 million workers who are the most remunerated in our country? Of course there is. We included it in the government agreement with the Socialist Party in December and we included it in the 150 demands signed with the People's Party in the investiture agreement: wage supplement. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you about the advantages of this highly criticized wage supplement. The first is that it takes into account the family and particular situation of workers. It is not the same for a worker who has no dependants as for those who have children, husbands or wives and even ascendants. The second is that it computes income on an annual basis, one of the inefficiencies that the minimum wage may have in relation to our current labour system, since the wage supplement is computes with the income of the whole year. The third is an important policy, and it must be borne in mind that our younger workers are included, so it can also be a policy to encourage their independence and that they can start this vital and fundamental project, especially when we have a country with one of the lowest birth rates in Europe. It is clear that if our young people can have decent incomes and can be independent, they can create their vital projects, they can have children and we can also end up with a problem that is still pending and that is that of pensions. Fourthly, the wage supplement does not discourage work, not like other solutions offered from the populist sphere, such as universal incomes, which can make some workers think it is not optimal to go to work. Moreover, it is a mechanism for combating fraud. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, please be assured that in this parliamentary term we will all require complete solutions to complex problems and that Citizens will be constantly working to improve, as it cannot otherwise be, the ratios of social equality, in our view one of the fundamental pillars of a social and democratic State like ours. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u25	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the consideration of this proposal for a law which proposes raising the minimum wage in our country. And we will do so because raising and dignified wages has been and is a constant in our government action when we govern and in our opposition work when that is our responsibility. In fact, one of the first initiatives we have seen in this legislature also seeks to raise the minimum wage, reach 60% of the average wage in the minimum wage and thus facilitate economic recovery for all and not just a few. During the course of this proposal we will adjust figures and adjust deadlines, because there is some other deficiency in the proposal group's approach. Point 7 of the preamble sets out, for example, the objective of achieving 60% of the average wage as of 1 January 2019, but Article 1 of the Act specifies figures for 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2020, but nothing by 1 January 2019. The figure in 2020 is also lower than the 60 % calculation of the average wage that should have been achieved the previous year, according to the preamble. Finally, some of the others are lacking, some of the other shortcomings that we will have to resolve in the course of the amendments. The important thing, however, is that it is a matter of priority to raise the inter-professional minimum wage significantly in this country in order to comply with article 35 of the Constitution - it has been said here - which obliges us to guarantee sufficient remuneration for workers, but above all to recover the significant decrease in the amount of wages that has occurred during the last years thanks to the labour reform of the People's Party and its strategy to gain competitiveness in the worst possible way, through the devaluation of wages and workers' rights. Because, ladies and gentlemen, a country that is committed to economic growth through low wages is a socially unjust, economically weak and, I would add, more democratically ill country. On the contrary, raising the interprofessional minimum wage and with it wages in general will help us to shape a more just society, a stronger economy and healthier institutions. This is the fundamental reason for our bet and our positive vote today. The establishment of the minimum wage is a key instrument, fundamental to social cohesion policies, to ensure purchasing and purchasing power for workers, to prevent and combat poverty and social exclusion. See if it is important that the Tax Agency assures us today that more than a third of workers earn wages below the interprofessional minimum wage due to the precariousness of our labour market. The evolution of the minimum wage over the last few years in this country is very significant. Since the democratic transition, there had never been such an impoverishing sequence in the evolution of the minimum wage as that suffered during the last government of the People's Party: minimum wage frozen in 2012 and 2014, and in 2013, 2015 and 2016 there was no compensation in any way for the loss of purchasing power for the workers. Between 2004 and 2011, with a socialist government, the minimum wage rose from EUR 460 to EUR 641 per month, a 40% increase. However, between 2011 and 2016, with a People's Party government, the minimum wage barely rose by 13 euros in absolute terms. To ensure, therefore, that labour policies, social policies of the People's Party and the Socialist Party are similar is not sustained in any way and responds rather to ignorance or bad faith. It is also important to remember that the minimum wage in Spain is almost half the minimum wage of our European neighbours. As has already been said, we are in the middle of the United Kingdom, in the middle of Germany, in the middle of France, in less than half of Belgium. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of the minimum wage is an important instrument to influence the overall evolution of wages in a country, in an economy, in a context that has suffered a very significant impoverishment in this respect. There's the data. The most recent ones, those of the labour price index, reflect that between 2008 and 2014 the purchasing capacity of wages has been reduced by 9%; the Economic and Social Council tells us that wages have fallen in the last four years by 1.5%; the national income accounts reflect that the share of labour income in gross national income has fallen from 51.6 to 47.7; the study of the evolution of deciles in wages by the ESC tells us that wages below 655 euros have fallen by 15%, while wages above 3,353 euros per month rose by 10.4%. Transfer from income from labour to income from capital: inequality, inequality, inequality. Inequality is also related to the quality and duration of employment contracts. Here are the data on the salary structure in 2014. The wages of temporary contracts are 31% below the average wage, the wages for part-time contracts are almost 12% below the average wage. Therefore, low wages, precarious work and poverty are phenomena that are hand in hand today in Spain. Please, when considering this proposal, let us think of the millions of households that have to survive with this minimum wage, let us think of that 12.3% of poor workers according to Oxfam Intermón, that 28.6% of poor Spaniards according to many non-governmental organizations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you do not want to raise the minimum wage for social justice or for humanity, do so for economic rationality. We know that this People's Party government shares the false liberal doctrine that relies on labour market flexibility and wage devaluation to increase competitiveness and strengthen the economy, but the formula does not work. In addition to unfair, in addition to causing inequality, impoverishment and loss of majority rights, it does not work. These economic models are discouraging the adoption of other decisions that do generate competitiveness and strengthen the economy, such as innovation, research, training or internationalization. Economic models that rely competitiveness on low wages will always find an economy that lowers wages even further. It's unfair, it's unfair, it's inhuman and it's also ineffective. Even the International Monetary Fund already warns of the risks of economies betting on competitiveness based on low wages, falling incentives for education and training, falling consumption and falling credibility and trust in institutions. The most competitive and robust economies are the fairest and most equitable economies at the same time, those that aim to compete through training, education, the quality of institutions, job stability and the best wages. Join us in the bid to raise the minimum wage, do it for social justice and, if you do not want to, do it for economic rationality or democratic health, because inequality is the main enemy of democracy. There is no greater solvent in the credibility and stability of democracy than the increase in inequalities and the hopelessness of the majority in their own future and in the future of their children. Inequality, populism and the risk to democracy are facets of the same currency. When the desperate citizen goes to the doctor and the doctor does not listen to him or does not resolve him, the citizen goes to the healer, the witch, the shaman or the taumaturge. It won't solve anything, it will make your problems worse, but it will provide you with a way to channel frustration and anger. Let's keep this in mind. Populism, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens who have just mentioned it as a risk, actually rides on the backs of injustice and does not fight by denying problems or by festering immobilism in the face of liquidationism or rejecting positive proposals like this. The questioning of the system is fought by undermining its sources and causes, recognizing the problems and changing the reality in the sense of equity and justice, for example by raising the inter-professional minimum wage to 60% of the average wage, as proposed by this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, let us do it for social justice, let us do it for economic rationality, let us do it for democratic health. Between so much dehumanity we take a step, even a small step, to humanize this house, to humanize its decisions and its reflection in the lives of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u27	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Simancas, there is no greater inequality than three and a half million people who have lost their jobs. That is the greatest inequality left to this country by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's Government. [[Applauds]] In the People's Party we believe that it is necessary to increase the interprofessional minimum wage, but also all the wages, low and average, of our country. That is why we have made a tax reform to reduce the tax burden on those who have less; we have made a law for vocational training for employment, because we think that training and qualification are the best weapons to combat low wages, and above all we have made the fight against unemployment our ultimate goal, because when jobs are destroyed, wages cannot be raised. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that all of us who make up this House agree that we are here to respond to the needs of the Spanish people, and that we agree that in the area of work we are being asked for appropriate policies - and I say appropriate ones - that allow us to continue on the path of job creation, and that they allow us to improve the quality of that job, both in terms of reducing time and increasing real wages; and, ladies and gentlemen, I say appropriate ones because job creation and improving its quality is a complex process that is not solved by basic measures and less by isolated measures such as the one we are debating today. And what in a superficial analysis may seem to be an improvement for workers, especially those with lower wages, when it deepens the consequences it is observed that they can lead to unemployment and loss of purchasing power, since the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, as is done in this proposal, cannot be isolated from the evolution of our economy and productivity. The proposed law submitted to the House raises the minimum interprofessional wage to 800 euros per month in 2018 and to 950 euros by 2020, which would have led to a 45% increase at the end of the period. In the face of this proposal, we must ask ourselves: can these changes affect employment and real wages? And the answer is yes. With increases in the interprofessional minimum wage, the probability of losing employment would be significantly increased for the small number of workers for whom this wage is binding, i.e. reduced, less than 1%, because in our country - and you should know it, ladies and gentlemen - there are minimum wage agreements laid down in collective bargaining that are above the interprofessional minimum wage, both current and the maximum that is incorporated in this proposed law. If you don't believe me, ask a kitchen assistant or a bartender's assistant from the Canary Islands with 1,111 euros per month; from Melilla with 930; from Asturias with 1,025 or a pawn from the Madrid construction that has an annual gross salary of 17,771 euros, much higher than the 13,300 that bring us today. That is why we must not forget that, traditionally in Spain, increases in the minimum wage are moved in parallel to minimum wage agreements. The negative effect of the rise in the minimum wage will also affect all workers who indirectly, through collective bargaining, see their wage increased according to the variation in the inter-professional minimum wage. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not a theory, it is something that has already happened in this country. According to the study carried out by the General Directorate of the Study Service of the Banco de España in December 2012, this was one of the effects of the implementation of Royal Decree-Law 3/2004 of 25 June, which meant that the probability of losing the employment caused by this decree reached 23.7% for workers linked to the inter-professional minimum wage, but also meant that the probability of losing employment almost doubled, reaching 15.1% for workers whose minimum wages defined by the agreement were indirectly affected by the minimum wage. And this translation of wage increases to unemployment happened and will happen again as long as the companies concerned do not produce the necessary productivity gains that support the wage increases, direct and indirect, caused by an increase in the minimum wage, because their evolution must be in line with the current evolution of the economy. We must improve the share of wages within national income, but without harming the competitiveness of our businesses, especially SMEs and self-employed people with employees. In addition, this proposal implicitly incorporates future losses of purchasing power, since, together with the one itself linked to the nominal increase in the wage mass in the proposal, an indexation clause is introduced that, in addition to not complying with Law 2/2015 of 30 March of Desindexation of the Spanish Economy, has negative economic effects, as it would contribute to the consolidation of inflationary spirals of wage-prices, introduce rigidities, produce imbalances, and above all reduce the purchasing level of all Spanish families. Nor should we forget that any proposed law should be accompanied by an economic memory, and, ladies and gentlemen, the effect of this law on budgets would be important, as it would mean in the case of the Public Employment Service an increase in expenditure of 310 million euros for 2018 and 633 million euros for 2020. In the case of the Fogasa the impact would be 17 and 36 million euros respectively. But the above figures should incorporate the additional effect that would result from the increase in the number of potential beneficiaries of non-contributory unemployment benefits. Approximating this impact from the 2015 survey of living conditions this law would entail increases in expenditure of 1,050 million for 2018 and 2,150 million for 2020, that is, without incorporating the effect of increased expenditure that would also have on the social security budget, this proposal would lead to an increase in expenditure of 1,377 million euros for 2018 and 2,819 million euros for 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you suggest to cover that expenditure? What other items of expenditure would be reduced or would be taxed with the consequent damage to families and competitiveness in our businesses? Ladies and gentlemen, I said this at the beginning of my speech: complex problems often do not have simple solutions and this proposal will mean the destruction of employment and the loss of purchasing power. We are in favour of continuing to work on those rules that mean an improvement in wages, including the inter-professional minimum wage, but we believe that the rise must be accompanied by reforms that eliminate the negative effects of this rise. From the point of view of form, my group does not understand why the change in the system of determining the inter-professional minimum wage for the years 2018 and 2020 does not take into account the positive aspects of the current regulation. We do not understand why the normative instrument is changed; the actual decree is characterized by being more flexible, by not being subject to compliance with certain percentages for approval, revision or derogation. We also do not understand why, if the current regulation ensures that the social partners are heard in setting the minimum wage, Article 1 does not. The Group of the European People's Party believes that social consultation should be incorporated into the legislation; a bad precedent is set in this proposal, especially if it is taken into account that the legal minimum wage is not the most widely applied, but is generally improved through collective bargaining. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you that last April - and this has already been commented on from the rostrum - a non-law proposal was unanimously adopted urging the new Government to increase the inter-professional minimum wage. We all agree to set with the most representative trade unions and business associations a timetable for increasing the minimum professional wage, and the People's Parliamentary Group will not give up on this. We are not going to exclude them from wage setting. We agree that this timetable should be accompanied by the evolution of our economy and productivity, and we will not give up on that. We agree that the objective was to achieve the objectives set out in the European Social Charter as soon as possible, 60% of the average net wage, but this 60% is not achieved in the timetable. We agree to reform article 27 of the Workers' Statute in order to establish new bases for the annual determination of the minimum wage, and to prevent future losses of purchasing power from occurring, nor do we renounce that. In April we were able to agree, and yet today we are looking for disagreement, bringing to debate an approach that contradicts what was adopted last April. We are consistent and maintain and maintain what is approved. Yes to the rise of the minimum wage, but not to an approach like today that is presented that will generate destruction of employment and reduction of real wages. You will be responsible, one by action and one by omission. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON REPUBLICAL DISCUSSION, ORGANISATION AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 5/1985 OF 19 JUNE, OF THE GENERAL ELECTORAL REGIME, TO ENHANC THE RIGHT OF ACTIVE Suffrage TO THE MOST 16 YEARS. [[File number 122/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u29	We continue with the second item on the agenda: Take into consideration the proposed organic law of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime to extend the right of active suffrage to those over sixteen years of age. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 19 April we presented this very proposal for an organic law to extend the right of active suffrage to those over the age of sixteen, a proposal for the expansion of democracy, a proposal that should transcend any ideology, a proposal that should directly challenge the democratic sense of each of us, beyond our acronyms, and on that occasion went forward with 174 votes against 144. He did so thanks to the support of the good people of Podemos, from the Mixed Group and the PSOE. It was a great afternoon in which great things were reflected, among them that there was a majority of change, an alternative majority to what there was, and, gentlemen of the PSOE, it was you that that afternoon decanted the balance, in a courageous decision, remembering the best of your history. As it is logical here today we do not expect anything from the right or blue or orange, we do not expect anything from those who pursue Santi Vidal or Francesc Homs and reward De Alfonso or Fernández Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u31	Your Honor, I'm calling you to the point. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u32	Thank you. We hope for something from you, we hope for the best. A lot of things have always happened to them, as we know they've been through these months, and we know it, but we are sure that today they will honor their principles. We are sure that today as representatives of the PSOE they will act as PSOE. We are convinced that today they will dignify the memory that precedes them. The thesis is simple and the next. If in this House millions of people are insecure and excluded from labour reform or hardening of the Penal Code, and I do not say so, the International Labour Organization and the United Nations itself, if in this House some of the BOE's neo-liberals have a negative impact on the lives of millions of people, including those who are now sixteen and seventeen years old and can therefore work, if here so many boys and girls can be denied and mortgaged with impunity for the future, and if here hundreds of thousands of young workers can be made with an estimated 66 per cent unemployment, they understand that some of us advocate that those hundreds of thousands of boys and girls who have so far been excluded from general suffrage will stand up to all this. We understand that in democracy one defends oneself in two ways: in the streets, squares and centers, something that they already do, and in front of an urn, something that they veto for today. And that is precisely what we come to defend here today with this proposal of law: that who can be precarized, imprisoned and excluded by the State can defend himself in front of an urn. That is why we in this House call upon all the political forces of good, each and every one of you to extend the right of active suffrage to those over the age of sixteen, to finally extend the democracy of this country. It is part of the idea and desires of the right most reactionary to infantilize society, to believe and to make believe that there are those who do not deserve to know or can and should participate in politics. It's about: do as I do and stay out of politics. It's usually people who are more offended by a rake than an envelope with black money in their pocket, it's usually people who say it's neither left nor right, and it turns out it's not right, it's usually people who are more afraid of a public urn than a hidden microphone, it's usually people who think calling a gangster a gangster is disrespectful, and instead telling six million people who are standing in this Chamber 'fuck you' is a little slip. They're usually people who have been earning too much time and who might want to lose. Lucky there's always someone who plants face, there's always been. In this country everything that has been achieved, everything that has been won, achieved and won on the street. What we have, we have for ourselves, and among those who have fought, among those who have filled the streets of this country, like the one that more, are hundreds of thousands of boys and girls of sixteen and seventeen years old; boys who have filtered out the pain of the past eight years, the immense pain they have seen in their homes, in their schools and in their families, and have turned it into political awareness and an enormous mechanism of social transformation. They have filtered their pain and their critical sense and put it at the service of demonstrations, protests, tides, self-managed centers, and above all they have put it in determination to win, in willingness to win. We want to put an urn in front of them and give them a chance to do it. We are faced with one of the most challenging generations in our history, although some would like those boys on the street to know more about the Bisbal to Chenoa cobra than about the cobra you sometimes do here to democracy. In many cases it has not been so, they have deprived them of so much that they already want it and can everything. Those boys and girls who are leaving behind, those boys and girls who are doing politics at the best place in the world to do it, on the street, deserve the most to participate and vote, especially when, according to the Secretary of State for Social Services and Equality, 63% of all of them demand it. If, at the age of sixteen, the State can demand criminal, labor, medical and tax responsibilities from you, if, at the age of sixteen, the State allows you to marry, this State must allow you to vote, and not to do so is from an enormous hypocrisy derived from the fear of the disputing capacity of an entire generation, from the fear that the one you have never considered will take away a chair that you think is yours when it really is theirs. If this proposal is not approved today, it is out of simple and miserable fear, and above all because it does not want to carry out youth policies, because it does not want to achieve a healthy democratic and electoral balance between the younger and older. Last November 9th and next autumn Catalonia has shown and will prove that it can be done, that there is an entire generation willing to be questioned. Catalonia has aligned with countries such as Scotland and Austria and with institutions such as the Council of Europe and the European Youth Forum. We want a country of all, for all and for everything. I'm sure, we're sure that most of you also want it for yours. Today you have a huge opportunity to prove it, a huge opportunity. I'm sure, gentlemen of the PSOE, that once again you won't miss it. We're waiting for you. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u33	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor in the first place, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. For the third time in the course of the year, an initiative is proposed to the Congress of Deputies in order to reduce the age of exercise of the right to vote to sixteen years. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya already formulated it in the past XI Legislature, and in the current one it had already been proposed by way of amendment in the process of the reform of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, the Loreg, a month ago in this same Plenary. This unprecedented suffragan fervorin has no precedents. The issue of the minimum age for voting has never been on the political agenda since the adoption of our Constitution, article 12 of which unequivocally states that Spaniards are over 18 years of age. The ERC's initiative can only be interpreted as a game to fish for votes, to trap the ascua to its particular sardine and to decompose, quickly, quickly, the transcendental rules of the electoral game in order to try to accommodate them to the liking of the proposer. It is brought to Congress as a consequence of the independence offensive initiated in Catalonia, where the party of the deputy Mr Rufián Romero is an accredited ariete, and in fact Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya does not hide to link this initiative to the process - illegal, by the way - perpetrated the 9-N or to the Law of Non-Referendary People's Consultations, conceived in Parliament two years ago, within the separatist spiral opened by some political organizations. It is surprising that parties that have had and have governmental responsibilities are now joining the cast that promotes the vote at the age of sixteen, and take into account what would be a significant change in the current electoral system, which would subtract arithmetical permutations from the various national, autonomous and local calls. So far, no Spanish legislature has raised this issue in any of them. In fact, European democracies or the rest of the world in which the voting exercise is not linked to the age of majority and eighteen years are also very exceptional and very numerous. In short, the Forum vote will be to reject this consideration, in accordance with our Constitution, with the customs and customs of the vast majority of democratic countries, and with respect for electoral rules drawn up with broad consensus and which are not to be subject to separatist strategies or bartering at the convenience of the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u36	Thank you, Madam President. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to adapt today a speech that was made in this very Parliament in 1931. Let me make a minimal adjustment to the bill we are debating today. Let me replace the word woman with a young person and update the demands we have on the political agenda today. At the moment we are going to give or deny the vote to 900,000 of the individuals of the State and we need to get up here to say: it is necessary to postpone the vote of people over sixteen years of age. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to postpone the vote from sixteen to eighteen, because I would need to see, in order to vary the criteria, young people on the street asking for the invalids to be eliminated; I would need to have seen young people on the street asking for the Mordaza Law to be repealed; I would need to see young people all united asking the institutions to represent them. I guess they recognized him. These are Victoria Kent's arguments against women's suffrage, arguments that we will certainly hear today in this House to justify once again the exclusion of a part of society from the democratic system, arguments that almost a hundred years later will be repeated to try to leave people between sixteen and eighteen years of age out of the democratic system. These are the arguments of people who are afraid of change, the arguments of those who have their greatest volume of vote in people over sixty-five years old, arguments of those who travel to seniors' homes on election day to ensure their good results, but there is still a part of the population that can marry, work and even have criminal responsibility. There is a part of society that we are burdening with duties, leaving them out of rights, the right to choose who will govern them and what policies will define their lives. They are the young people we can decide today to vote for so that they can have full citizenship. Fortunately, Victoria Kent's arguments were rejected that day and Parliament chose democracy over fear. That is why I want to adapt the words of Clara Campoamor, to which many people today remember: I, ladies and gentlemen, feel like a citizen before I am young, and I think it would be a profound political mistake to leave young people outside of that right, the young person who expects and trusts you, to whom, as happened with other new forces in the French Revolution or in the democratic transition, will undoubtedly be a new force that is incorporated into the law, and there is nothing but pushing her to follow her path. So, ladies and gentlemen, today we decide whether we want to be remembered as Victoria Kent or as Clara Campoamor. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u37	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Xuclà i Costa.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two comments on behalf of the Democratic Party on this proposal by the Republican Left Group. Firstly, each parliamentary group in the exercise of its rights has the opportunity to put on the agenda, by quota, a number of initiatives. Today we find one to allow, amending article 2.1 of the Electoral Law of the Loreg, the possibility of the right to vote from the age of sixteen. We are going to vote in favour, in line with what we did in the previous parliamentary term, in line with several positions of international bodies that have expressed themselves in this regard, such as Resolution 1826 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of the year 2011, which I voted precisely in favour, so it seems logical that it also expresses it today, and following the line already expressed by other fellow Members of Parliament. From the age of sixteen there is the possibility of access to the labour market, the consequent possibility of paying taxes, the possibility of marriage, and we must consider the possibility of voting from the age of sixteen without fear. A few years ago one could vote from twenty-one years and in some European countries, such as Italy and France, one can present one senator from thirty-five years. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be afraid to face the possibility of extending citizenship rights, the basic right to vote from the age of sixteen. Mr Rufián said that the best place to do politics is the street, but I partially disagree. I think it is the street, but also and especially Parliament within the framework of a representative or complementary democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a procedural consideration of how to deal with the reform of the Electoral Law. The last major reform of the Loreg took place in the years 2010-2011 through a subcommission of reform study in which each parliamentary group set out its objectives and we reached a consensus. It's been done differently today. It would have been better for a sub-committee to reform the Electoral Law in which we all raised the various aspects at the same time, but when a specific point of debate is on the agenda, parliamentary groups must take sides by voting in favour or against. If this reform of the Electoral Law is to be dealt with, we will focus exclusively on the subject and do not consider it to be the best instrument to put forward amendments of any kind. Madam President, this concludes. Consensus, as has always been done in this Parliament, should be required for the reform of an organic law as important as the General Electoral Regime Act. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. The consideration of the proposal that we are dealing with today was already addressed by this same plenary in the previous parliamentary term, so I will not be very original and will circulate by the arguments that we have already put forward in the previous debate. We said that it was a matter of great importance, because it could influence the agenda of the political agenda and perhaps contribute to the growth of democracy in general and to a greater balance in the generational distribution of political power. Finally, there were a number of issues that I am not going to reformulate because they were already reformulated in this House a few months ago. But from a general and retrospective point of view I also want to say that, although there is a tendency to lower the limits of majority to the 18-year standard, this has sometimes been made more flexible in relation to the exercise of certain rights and freedoms. In this regard, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 141 in 2000 has already stated that this can be done on the basis of maturity to acquire the age of majority and the different states in which the legislation increases the capacity to act. These reflections lead us to the issue we are dealing with, the nuclear element, which is the convenience and opportunity of the reform proposed from various perspectives; perhaps one of the most relevant is the constitutional one, and in particular whether or not constitutional reform is required. We have already commented in the previous speech that the combination of articles 68.5, 23 and 12 can be combined with the fact that there is an armoury for the exercise of political rights at the age of eighteen in the Constitution or, at least, it is a question that is not irrelevant and that is regulated in a seemingly forceful manner. That is why it had already stated a time ago that a calm and doctrinally sustained study would be required to make the age at which political citizenship is acquired more flexible. On the other hand, we also say that a decision of this nature would drag much of the legal system into the downsizing of the age of sixteen, from the Civil Code to the rest of the legal system, and almost certainly open an intense debate. In addition, it would entail decisions of significance in relation to the Transparency Act to the extent that it would be necessary to create spaces for learning and citizen participation appropriate to this new age and to establish the right to meaningful information in own languages and specific spaces for expression, as well as active listening and opportunities to enter into collective activities. The issue has already been sufficiently addressed in international law. Perhaps it should be said - in order not to abound in what has already been said - that both the 1959 United Nations Convention, which has already been cited, and the 1992 European Charter of Fundamental Rights or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in its resolution of 2011, are recommendations, in no case is an imperative; that is, the deepening of the rights of the child in terms of protection, provision and participation, but without making express mention of the vote, in particular in the 1959 Convention. With regard to the Parliamentary Assembly, as has already been said, these are two recommendations which suggested that the possibility of reducing not only the active vote but also the passive vote to sixteen years should be investigated. I am not going to go too far in the reasons that have been expressed in favour and against, I am simply going to summarize them in that the measure is supported by its promoters in two basic arguments: the strengthening of democracy and its legitimation. On the contrary, there are two large blocks of arguments: one would be of an endogenous nature of the citizens themselves who are wanted to be allowed access to the vote, those under the age of eighteen and over sixteen, that is, the debate on their immaturity and their possible manipulation linked to that so-called immaturity, and in turn a comparative cause of law, the few systems that have taken that step. However, these objections obviously have their detractors and defenders. It is true that in debates of this nature, as has already been shown by colleagues who have come to the rostrum and preceded me in the use of the floor, there could be a certain parallel to the debate that arose a hundred years ago regarding the exclusion of women from patriarchal prejudices. In short, where do all these questions lead us? They lead us to face a very relevant issue for democratic life, which has a remarkable impact on the legal system, both in the Constitution, as in the electoral policy, as in the civil sector and, ultimately, in almost all regulated sectors, and which would affect the public and the private, which - and I conclude - would require reflection in order to make this decision. In addition, it would require it in all orders, in terms of youth psychology, sociology, law, public services, the media, etc. I would also like to reflect, as we pointed out months ago, on the gradual implementation of the measure in its case, both by age and by electoral processes. We are faced with an important debate that, if we do not want him to be accused of opportunistic, we do not think he can be approached from the roof. It must be the object of a great social and political pact, it must be the result of a process of debate that generates a change of culture in generational relations, which excludes the young generation from the debate of political power. This was done in Austria and should be our procedural model. That is why we do not think it appropriate for us to start here with a proposal for a law, since we do not think that the procedure for amendments is competent to deal with the issues raised in this intervention. The Loreg reform is a structural reform in the system, as it is a basic norm of democracy, as are all electoral laws. Electoral law may play a similar role with regard to political ideologies that make up or confront in an electoral process where procedural action is taken with regard to the claims of the parties to a judicial process. That is why action is said to be the right to war, and that is why we believe that we can say, as was also said in this House, that electoral law is never innocent, since it articulates the competence of the ideologies that compete in an electoral process with the aim of ordering future governability in relation to political participation through representative democracy. For this reason, the Loreg reform needs a broad and cross-cutting majority that can only be achieved after a calm debate. It is a debate that we must hold in depth, with all the voices involved, seeking a broad political and social consensus, as we are talking about the rules of play, the political socialization of the individual and the feeling of responsibility for the public. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u41	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as other speakers have already said, this is the second time in a short time that the parties have called on each other in this Parliament to vote on an amendment to the Loreg Election Act. Unfortunately, on the two previous occasions the proposals were neither timely nor necessary, nor was the method by which reform of such an important rule can be carried out. A few weeks ago it was a question of reforming the electoral norm to avoid political nonsense, voting at Christmas if the political blockade that was prolonged at that time continued irresponsibly, and today it is a question of committing another irresponsibility, attributing all sorts of goods and benefits to the reduction of the electoral age to sixteen years. There have been examples of comparative law, it has been said that there are recommendations from international institutions - it is true - only by way of recommendation, that of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but the only country in Europe - Mr Rufián, I am sure you know - which has established the age of majority to vote at the age of sixteen is Austria. Beyond the academic discussion of the effects that this reduction of the electoral age can produce, we have here a question that is not questionable: the effects. I think you will be aware of the current European political situation and you will know that in Austria, with the next repetition of the presidential elections, a party called the Freedom Party of Austria, the FPÖ, an ultra-right and nationalist court party, is very close to the presidency of such an important country of the European Union; in that country it is where they have that wonder of electoral age at the age of sixteen and where young people can vote. Therefore, be careful to attribute that kind of benefit and balm of Fierabras, to solve all the problems of a society, to the reduction of the electoral age, which already sees the practical effects that it has produced. I am not saying that that is the cause, but it is the only country in Europe that has that electoral age right now. There are other countries in Europe where experiments have been carried out on this issue, in some German Länder or also in Norway in local elections. Also in Argentina. He said in a previous intervention, because this is already a repeated intervention, that until 2012 Iran had the great honor of being the country with the lowest age to be able to vote, the fifteen years, until the law of youth voting in Argentina was passed in 2012, for which the fifteen years are now also the age of majority to be able to vote. That's right, from the age of eighteen it's mandatory to vote. I don't know if you would want to transfer that to our country, too. In comparative law, as we talked about the other time, there are Cuba, Nicaragua, Ecuador or Indonesia, which I do not know if they are the best examples for this democratic improvement that we are all looking for. I tell you that in Europe, except in Austria and Cyprus, there is no such majority at the age of sixteen. The previous spokesman, Comrade Legarda, has put the issue on its fair terms. What we should really discuss here is whether we want to disassociate the majority from the electoral age. If we want to do so, I have no doubt that for consistency with our legal system, it would have another set of consequences. You were talking about tightening the penalties of the Penal Code for young people. You know that article 19 excludes persons under the age of eighteen from the Criminal Code. I do not know if what you are also trying to do is to include them in that case. That is why this is a substantive debate, it is a profound debate, and the consequences that could result from breaking that coherence that exists in our legal system, I think it is for us to think about it and a lot. It is true that all minors hold fundamental rights, and this has been pointed out repeatedly by the Constitutional Court, but then there is a graduation in their exercise. The ownership of rights is not the same as the exercise of rights. There's a graduation. If we want to alter that graduation, which in some way gives coherence to our entire legal system, let us do so, but let us think about the consequences that this may produce. Nor in other countries - in the case of Austria, it is very clear and there are some studies in this regard - is it shown that this reduction in age is conducive to greater participation of young people in politics, or even that the policies designed by governments are particularly attentive to youth problems. I do not think that is the instrument, although I say that it should be a substantive debate, a legal debate, much more in depth than what is intended to be brought here with this initiative. What we do believe is that we should leave these debates rather interested or opportunistic and go to the bottom of the issue. The crux of the matter - and all the speakers who have come up here today - is that virtually all of us are prepared and agree to open the debate on the reform of the Loreg, a structural norm of our democratic system. Virtually everyone said it here in the previous debate, and some have repeated it again; we believe that the method of talking about the reform of the Loreg is not this, it is not an opportunist law proposal like the one we discussed a few days ago, but a debate in a subcommittee created to the effect that within the Constitutional Commission we can all make the proposals we consider appropriate, and listening also to the voices of society and experts we can finally reach an agreement on such an important reform as this. We have already said this, we are supporters, it is a flag of our party the reform of the Loreg and, moreover, we have made clear what are the principles on which we believe that this reform has to be structured. I have no objection to repeating them again here today because it seems very important to me. These principles are, first, to rescue the principle of equality in voting, the principle by which the value of the votes of all citizens weigh and count the same, live in Soria, Madrid, Barcelona, Guadalajara or Gijón. That principle is not being respected with Loreg right now. The other day, in the previous debate, we were referring to what it costs each of the political forces represented here to get a seat, and you know that there is a huge distance. The second principle is that it is true that a sema is being opened between the citizens and their representatives, who are us, and that sema can be avoided if we get the citizens to really feel that their vote serves to elect the specific people who want them to represent them. That is why we believe that, at the very least, the electoral lists should be unblocked and representatives should be held truly accountable to those represented. We therefore put forward that unblocking of the electoral lists. We also raise another issue that we believe is fundamental, and that is that the parties must undertake a reform of our structures, processes of democratization, and therefore we must go to selection processes in which the vote and opinion of the affiliates, the sympathizers, the people who feel bound by a political force and not exclusively leave it in the hands of the political elites of the political leaders. We also want to remove all impediments that make people with some degree of physical disability or impediments able to exercise that right as fundamental as the right to vote. And, of course, we want to suppress the requested vote; that requested vote that robs a fundamental right to Spaniards who do not live in our country and that the Constitution itself obliges them to be guaranteed their right to vote. We also want to improve our democracy with the compulsory debate, because, as we said on the previous occasion, the right to be informed, the right to obtain information on electoral programmes and what each party is proposing is not a graceful concession of political parties, but a fundamental right of citizenship. The same applies to other issues, such as early voting or improving participation mechanisms. All this has to be part of the work of that subcommittee if we really want to commit ourselves to such an important reform as the reform of the Loreg. For that, Mr Rufián, for the improvement of democracy, you will find our party, but where you will never find us you will never find us in proposals of an opportunistic nature like this, which in no case try to improve democracy but to meet their own interests, those interests that have led them, for example, to Catalonia being the only autonomous community that does not have an electoral norm of its own. In that you and your partners in the Government of Catalonia have a great deal of responsibility. I am sure that what you have not been able to do in Catalonia we will be able to do here, in the Spanish Parliament, if we are able to carry it through the democratic channels proper to modern parliamentaryism, which are the work in that committee and the search for agreement among all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u43	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-In Communal Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Bescansa Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u44	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Something is wrong in this institution if to start discussing something you have to bring it to this House three times. Something goes wrong if for a project to come forward it is necessary to repeat and repeat procedures because they are sterile and exhaust themselves. The Spanish electoral system is one of the central pillars on which the 1978 regime was built and is no less responsible for what in political science they call the poor quality of Spanish democracy. The Spanish electoral system has deteriorated democracy because, instead of loyally serving the expression of the popular will in our institutions, it has served to manipulate that will. Since 1977 the electoral system has systematically altered the will of the people by benefiting the People's Party and the Socialist Party and basically harming the rest of the parties. It has produced absolute majorities in Congress and in the Senate when they have never existed. Of the thirteen elections that have been held in our country to Congress and the Senate, in none of them, in none, the ballot boxes gave absolute majority to any of the parties, yet almost half of those elections, six, resulted in absolute majority in this House. Not to mention the case of the Senate, where the alteration of popular will is so manifest that systems of disproportion are built so scandalous that virtually no other party other than the People's Party rules in that House. The Spanish electoral system worsens the quality of democracy for three fundamental reasons. The first is that it is perhaps one of the least proportional electoral systems in Europe. [[Rumors]] Through a perverse combination of electoral constituency and automatic allocation through construction... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u45	One second, Mrs. Bescansa. Please silence your ladies and gentlemen to listen to the speaker. Go on, Mrs. Bescansa.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u46	Thank you. Through the automatic and constitutional allocation of deputies by constituency, together with the combination of the electoral formula and other secondary elements, an enormously disproportionate electoral system is created, an electoral system in which systematically the first and the second parties obtain more seats than they do, a system that makes the first party, the party that wins the elections, always have between 4% and 8% more seats than they do. Our electoral system worsens the quality of our democracy, because many of the elements of the electoral system, the most pernicious, the most perverse, are constitutionalized, and that is not the normal thing in the countries of our environment. Electoral laws in general are important laws, laws protected by parliament, but they are not normally constitutionalized. Not here, right? Here, those who designed this system, basically to benefit from it, took care of putting the lock on it of the Constitution, so that it would be practically impossible to modify it. And finally, this electoral system is very unfair because it excludes from the right to vote, from the exercise of the right to vote, to persons who have tax obligations, to persons who have the right to work; it excludes from the right to vote young people of sixteen and seventeen years of age. I will not make any discoveries if I say that our electoral system needs a profound, very profound transformation. But historically the debate on electoral systems, on their proportionality, was either a matter of political parties or of the establishment or of the academy. But our country, in the last five years, has changed and has changed profoundly. On May 15, 2011, first hundreds, then thousands and then hundreds of thousands of people went out to the streets and squares of our country to say that this democracy works badly, which is of poor quality, and sat down for days, weeks and months to discuss and identify what worked badly. Long debates were opened, and one of them - no less important - was the debate on the Spanish electoral system. Five years later, people in this country know the electoral system. You do not believe, gentlemen of the PP, that people do not know that of all those seats they have there, if the system were proportional, there would be 21 who would have to give it to another political force, because 21 of the people who are sitting there are not because the votes have put them there, they are because a perverse electoral system, which was bent on its arm, made the system give in seats what did not give the ballot boxes. And the people in this country also know, gentlemen of the PSOE, that 8 of the Members sitting there do not belong to them either, they are not their own, they belong to other parliamentary forces. [[A Member of Parliament: That's what you say!]] No, I'm saying, no, no, what's going on, no. It's very simple, it's as simple as seeing what proportion of votes you have and what proportion of seats you have. And if you had 33% of the seats, you would have 116 Members and not 137, as you have now. So there are 21 Members who do not belong to them. [[Applauds]] But those accounts - which were previously accounts that we had in the faculties and in the books about electoral systems - now people know them and that's what you haven't heard, that these accounts now do on the street. People know that this electoral system was designed by you and you to benefit you and you by trapping everyone else. [[Point to both sides of the House]] People know they designed this system to win. Even last week, thanks to this country's investigative journalism, we have come across the solid proof that the architects of the electoral system also took care to make it always work in their favor, and when they knew it wasn't going to work in their favor, they simply didn't make it work. Right? We knew that in central elements, such as the definition of the Head of State, when they knew that the system was not going to work in their favor, people were simply not asked. And this we know as evidence of those who did it. The worst thing that can happen to an electoral system is that it responds only to the logic of preserving the power of those who designed it and put it on the ground; it is exactly the evil that our electoral system suffers. In our group we will always defend progress in improving the quality of our democracy, and that necessarily goes by defending two principles, which are very old and very simple but not less valid. The first principle - and it is an elementary principle of democracy - is that the vote of all people has to be worth the same; I insist, the vote of all people has to be worth the same, and a democratic electoral system is built precisely to ensure that the vote of all people is worth the same and that all people, all those who have obligations and rights in the field of work and taxation, also have the right to participate, the right to vote. We will therefore vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration and we will work without making excuses, excuses that have to do with basically irrelevant procedures; we will work to advance that this electoral system, the electoral system of our country, ensures that the vote of all people is worth the same. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Villar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that during the debate on the proposed reform of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime in the case of Article 99.5 of the Constitution, populism once again took over in this Chamber. Taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, some political groups intended to introduce a flood of important reforms of our electoral system to approve them in twenty-four hours and tore their clothes because our group demanded seriousness, tranquility and rigour to focus then on the concrete and narrow object of that proposal, leaving for when there was greater political stability the realization of other reforms certainly precise with the necessary consensus. In my speech, I will reiterate on behalf of my group this idea and this commitment. However, representatives of these groups unleashed invective opportunists against the socialists, pretending to present us as those we wanted to prevent, among other reforms, the vote of young people over sixteen years old in Spain. It did not matter to them that this same initiative, as has been recalled, would already have had in April of this year the full support of the PSOE deputies in the face of the vote against the People's Party, of Citizens and the abstention of the PNV: 174 votes in favour against 144 endorsed the consideration of that initiative that is now being reiterated, and it is reiterated because it fell by the automatic dissolution of the Chambers because there has been no investiture. Remember it well, without misrepresentation, Mr Rufián; remember it especially you, Mr Iglesias; remember it all, those who, exhibiting a purported fetan left march, objectively converged with the PP and denied their vote of investiture for a progressive government. Remember how many measures of change, regeneration and social and democratic progress have remained for this reason in limbo. Remember that with their attitude what they have achieved is to strengthen this right that misrules Spain since 2011. Remember it from the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party has long been committed to the debate to extend the right of active suffrage to those over the age of sixteen and to the need to build as much consensus as possible. This is what we have been looking at in our electoral programmes. We would have thought it more appropriate to deal with this issue in the light of a subcommittee of study, together with the other electoral reforms, and we hope that this will be done loyally in the future. In this we fully agree, we agree with what Mr Xuclà has said. But once the proposal for a law for its consideration has been put forward, we have to make a coherent statement on its content. We are a progressive party that has always been at the forefront of the development of rights and freedoms, serving as a reference even for many other countries, not only in Europe. That is why we are announcing our vote in favour, because we are convinced of the relevance, justice and democratic coherence of this measure, as advocated by the Council of Europe. But not for your melifluous and treacherous considerations today, Mr Rufián, at all. The arguments that support it, in our view, clearly prevail - this is what matters - over those who plead against it, which come to be summed up, as has been seen here, in a set of concatenated assertions about the supposedly characteristic lack of maturity of young people of these ages. Rather than arguing, these are prejudices, unfounded stereotypes with which we want to deny these young people a fundamental political right - remember, ladies and gentlemen - linked to participation, which has the same imprint, as Professor Presno Linera points out, of the fundamental rights of demonstration, assembly, association and freedom of expression that are already exercised at the age of sixteen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the age of sixteen young people have or may have adult rights and responsibilities - it has been recalled here - and this makes no sense that they cannot participate democratically in the election of those who are going to represent them and make the decisions that will affect their present and their vital future. It is enough to point out that they have criminal responsibility, that they can work, that they can be unionized, that they can access the exercise of public office, associate, emancipate, marry, pay taxes or decide on medical treatments. Thus, it is indisputable that they have their own perspective on public affairs and that they have specific interests and demands that must be taken into account by parties and rulers. Along with this, as Professor Jorge de Esteban has pointed out, they have ample access to information and to the new technologies of communication and knowledge, so today a young man of this age - I quote literally - is likely to know more about the world and its circumstances than a 20-year-old four decades ago. At this age, adequate training for political participation is already available. José Antonio Marina y María de la Válgoma, in an opinion for the City of Seville, argue that the right to vote could be used as a rite of passage from adolescence to maturity that would coincide with the completion of compulsory studies, which are actually a certificate of citizenship. It is very consistent with this idea that the current Organic Law on Education, ladies and gentlemen, establish the sixteen years as the end of compulsory secondary education and that, among its objectives, in article 23, 'take responsibility for their duties, know and exercise their rights and prepare for the exercise of democratic citizenship' in a plural society. [[...]] For this reason, we can represent the great potential of this measure if it is accompanied by the establishment in the educational system of a progressive education for citizens worthy of such a name. From 1812 to 1978 we have evolved from the twenty-five years to the eighteen, passing through the twenty-three and twenty-one. A similar evolution can be seen in comparative law. In some countries the voting age has already been lowered, as has been said here, to sixteen years, such as Brazil, Nicaragua, Ecuador, Argentina, Austria, Malta, several German States and Swiss cantons, Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina - in the latter cases if they work -. There are also many other countries where proposals have been made in the same direction or are being studied very seriously and the measure is being discussed. Mr. Prendes, for me, they don't count the countries that aren't democrats. Special consideration deserves resolution 1826/2011 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Let us not downgrade it, because it is indeed not compulsive in law, but it has great political value and great evolutionary value in terms of democratic progress and respect for and development of fundamental rights and freedoms. It argues that there is a growing marginalization of young people in the political process as they dominate the issues and interests of older people. That resolution says so. It is also appreciated that the more you have to wait to participate in political life the less socially and politically committed you are when you reach adulthood. It also stresses the need for young people to be able to vote at the age of sixteen and to be well prepared for this participation, it is true, since they have very serious responsibilities towards society. In this regard, it reiterates the importance of improving education for citizens. Let us also learn from this wise counsel, ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, in the face of the abuse of negative stereotypes about adolescence, the most recent studies of evolutionary psychology come to the conclusion that the 16-year-old already has sufficient capacity to exercise his or her vote reasonably, emphasizing that his or her cognitive abilities and abilities for abstract reasoning and logical thinking are already developed sufficiently from the age of fifteen, being the young man of this age able to understand, reason, anticipate consequences and act freely. Ladies and gentlemen, if these are the most important reasons for supporting the consideration of this bill, we believe that other considerations should not be circumvented. Those political forces that are weighing their position for purely electoral interests should abandon excessive fears or unfounded hopes in this regard, since it has been shown that the 780,000 new potential voters between the ages of sixteen and seventeen would not change the state of affairs too much because young people of this age are also different ideologically, would be very few to change the correlation of forces and would also often abstain much. The important thing is that this measure, from the democratic point of view of political participation, is coherent and from the legal and constitutional point of view, just and possible, and if, in the end, we want to look at it from a utilitarian point of view, it would benefit young people and the entire democratic system. I'm done, Madam President. Soon. I wonder: Would this reform, as some argue, require the previous reform of article 12 of the Constitution? I understand you don't. What this article regulates is the institution of the majority at the age of eighteen years referring to the ability to work from a general point of view and of gradual completion, but always allowing specific regulations and not being a border for the ownership and exercise of fundamental rights, rights that are already held in the minority in a partial or total way, depending on the case. I'm done for good. Article 48 of our Constitution establishes a guiding principle for public authorities to promote the conditions for the free and effective participation of young people in political, social, economic and cultural development. And it is clear that with the adoption of this measure this principle would be developed in a relevant way, today of as little legal commitment to reality as my longed-for teacher Juan José Ruiz-Rico has described it. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Escudero Berzal has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u50	President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address Mr Rufián first before entering the substance of the bill. Your Honor, the provocation replaces in the debate the lack of argument and you intervene only to offend; your entire argument has not responded to the formation of a judgment of value on the matter we are talking about but only to the offense. I leave you with Leonardo Da Vinci's reflection: I have offended humanity because my work did not have the quality it should have had. Every speech you make in this House, Mr Rufián, is an offence - not to all humanity, of course, but to all Spaniards. And as far as we, the People's Parliamentary Group, are concerned, I am left with what Machiavello said: Men offend those who love rather than those who fear. Stop loving us so much, Mr. Rufián. Mrs Podemos' deputy, your accounts are milk. Could you tell us how many seats the opposition has in Cuba? And in Greece? Who owes Syriza the fifty seats the system gives the winner? Ladies and gentlemen, although the rapporteurs have changed, we are reproducing the same speeches, the same arguments as seven months ago, exactly on 19 April and, on the other hand, it is logical. The position of the People's Parliamentary Group is exactly the same today as that which my colleague Pilar Cortés so brilliantly defended and exposed. The Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra proposes the modification of part of the articulation of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime in order to extend the right of active suffrage to Spaniards over sixteen years of age, introducing in addition other modifications relating to the composition of the polling stations to allow the designation of those over sixteen years of age and to establish an annual and non-monthly update of the electoral census. The arguments put forward by the political formations that support the initiative and so on in the explanatory statement of the bill itself in order to allow those over the age of sixteen to vote are, in short, according to Esquerra to transform the pain of young people because of the economic crisis into an instrument of political transformation; Compromís spoke of nostalgia and coherence in the rights of civilians and acquired; Democracy and Freedom to give a lesson of democracy to young people; to improve the formation of young people, to end the topic that young people are children, the parties will be forced to promote improvements in the relationship with young people and because it is a measure of rejuvenation, necessary for democratic regeneration, according to Podemos, and because this is progressive, ladies and gentlemen, and the PSOE is progressive, and because it is consistent with other regulations of age. I would like to congratulate Mr Legarda and Mr Prendes on the thorough reflection and intensive study of this initiative with which we are in much agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, lowering the age of active suffrage is not a baladian debate. Such an important change in the main requirement for the exercise of a fundamental right, the right of all citizens to participate in public affairs directly or through representatives freely elected in periodic elections by universal suffrage as proclaimed by our article 23 of the Constitution, cannot have reasons of such weight as nostalgia, pain, rejuvenation of democracy, problems of youth, the recommendation - which is not binding - contained in a resolution of the Council of Europe of 2012 or in the Law of the Parliament of Catalonia of 2014, of non-referendiary popular consultations, nor in reports of the Council of Youth of Spain, the European Youth Forum or the National Youth Council of Catalonia, with all due respect. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of whether or not 16-year-olds are prepared to vote, although some seem to want to reduce the debate to that point. The People's Parliamentary Group is not going to get into that. Each person holds the rights that we have recognized by our system and exercises them in accordance with it. Ladies and gentlemen, the age of the person is a state or a quality that is of extraordinary importance in determining the ability of people to act, this is the attitude or the possibility that human beings have to exercise or implement the rights and obligations of those they hold. A person's age generally determines his or her ability to work. The legal systems usually set an age limit, called the age limit, which determines the transition to the capacity to act fully, i.e. the possibility of exercising by itself the rights and obligations of the individual and his or her property. Our Civil Code recognized the age of majority at eighteen years since November 1978 - before it was twenty-one as it has been said - and our Constitution also declares it in its article 12, being from that age when it is obtained full capacity to perform valid legal acts and be responsible for them, that is, it can be voted and voted, sign any contract, buy or sell things, exercise legal actions, be a business owner. In short, be personally responsible for the consequences of all their actions. Advancing the voting age to sixteen in Spain would not be consistent with our legal framework, although there are arguments in favour. It is true, as you have said, that at that age a young person has the right to legally enter the labour market, to give his full consent to medical treatment or to have sexual relations with an adult and that he has criminal responsibilities but forgets - all of you forget and do so with intent - that those criminal responsibilities are those which contemplate, ladies and gentlemen, the Law of the Child and not the Penal Code. Because a minor under the age of eighteen cannot enter prison or serve the same sentences as an adult. They also forget about the work environment that minors who want to work need their parents'permission. Lowering the age to vote to sixteen would also mean lowering the age of imprisonment and working age, because if this is not done, we would be faced with a huge demagogy, consisting of winning the favour of minors by granting them the right to vote, but at the same time declaring them immature and irresponsible to work or to be accountable to the courts. Declaring them responsible for the vote but not for the work or for the prison would be to turn the new voters into privileged ones, ladies and gentlemen, with the same rights as the rest of the citizens but not with the same obligations. This, ladies and gentlemen, also goes against our Spanish Constitution because it goes against the equality of all Spaniards. From the above it follows that advancing the vote to sixteen years would mean not only reforming the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime but also amending article 12 of our Constitution. On the other hand, I think it is appropriate to know that the age limit set in our system is equivalent to that of our political and cultural environment - France, Germany, Italy - and the vast majority of countries, since, as has already been said, only in eight countries of the world can we vote sixteen years; in others like Japan at twenty, in Kuwait at twenty-one and in Iran at fifteen. I have been very drawn to the attention that only one parliamentary group, Democracy and Freedom, pointed out that the possibility that they could be elected at that age should be explored. Really, if you intend to lower the age for active suffrage, why not for the liability? It would be fair and logical for anyone who can vote to be voted on as well. Can you imagine a president of the government in Spain at the age of sixteen? Why not? Right? If that can be progressive! There is another argument used in defense of this downsizing to vote that worries me, that different parliamentary groups claim this reform as a measure to take account of youth and so the political parties worry about young people, ladies and gentlemen, has surprised us. I don't know about their political formations, but mine has been worrying and working for youth for many years. There is no electoral programme in any area or government action in any Administration that is not aimed at improving the quality of life of our young people and improving the conditions for them to have the future they deserve. We do not need in the People's Party to lower the voting age so that young people, their present and their future, are a priority in our actions. Finally, to argue the need to lower the voting age in order to achieve maturity among minors, excuse me for questioning it. We believe that it is exactly the opposite, that the age of the vote is set according to the maturity of the voters, but in the face of this argument of you whether to lower the voting age generates maturity as by the art of magic, why not lower it even further and have mature people with fifteen, thirteen and even nine years? He also argues that democratic quality would be improved and it is hard to understand that the fact that sixteen-year-olds are voting will make our country more democratic. It serves him the same argument as the previous one, which then votes for the nine-year-olds because we would thus have more democratic quality. Ladies and gentlemen, the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime has been amended on several occasions and these amendments have led to the presentation of numerous initiatives. Even in the IX Legislature a subcommission was created on the possible modifications to the General Electoral Regime without any of these initiatives or proposals for extending the vote to those over the age of sixteen have been presented in the subcommission's report. There are only two written questions put by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this legislature and the proposed law of the Left Parliamentary Group six months ago. The European resolution is five years ago, in 2011, and the Catalan law two years ago, in 2014. Has anyone been interested in this subject? And now you do? I think my colleague Pilar Cortés made it very clear: The electoral laws, ladies and gentlemen, are never innocent. Neither the People's Parliamentary Group nor the People's Party Government, ladies and gentlemen, are afraid. We are not afraid to face this reform, we are not afraid of change and we do not have it because if someone has changed Spain, if someone has turned this country around with great and profound reforms and has changed the lives of the Spanish by generating future, generating trust and generating illusion for young people too, it has been the government of the People's Party. Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have so far just screamed, but to do what is said to be done, nothing at all. They have been ruling in many municipalities for over two years and the Spaniards have already seen what their change means. I am not saying this, ladies and gentlemen, but the Spanish have said it twice: on 20 December and 26 June. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, I conclude, Madam President, and ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, perhaps you are proposing this reform on the basis of the premise that the under-18s are more left-wing, but do not be deceived, ladies and gentlemen, because lowering the voting age does not make anyone win the elections. Recent studies indicate that the age group with the most abstention is between eighteen and twenty-four years because younger people prefer other forms of political participation. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. Let us all work to improve this law, but not with patches or deception, but from responsibility and loyalty to all those whom we represent who are, nothing more and nothing less, than to all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u52	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group for a major national pact to strengthen and guarantee our public pension system within the framework of the Toledo Pact. Mrs Reina has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u53	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. From the People's Group we have put forward a non-legislative proposal to promote in the Toledo Pact and in the social dialogue a new agreement containing new recommendations and guidelines to further guarantee the future of the public pension system. Amendments have been tabled by a number of groups and we have finally reached a compromise amendment which will be accepted and signed by most of the parliamentary groups - Citizens, Socialist Party, logically the People's Group, Joint Group and PNV - and some groups such as Podemos and Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia have been disconnected from us. We are making an effort and I hope that at the end of the day we will also be able to join in this spirit of dialogue, collaboration and consensus which this afternoon has permeated this agreement, which I wish to maintain throughout the negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, Social Security has been a priority for the People's Party throughout the legislature because we are aware that pensions are the backbone of the welfare state and have been the support of many families during the crisis. We have an eminently contributory public distribution system and we want it to remain so, public and public. In this system we allocate 12.5% of GDP to pension payments, which is the ninth highest percentage in the world, exactly 4.6 points higher than the OECD average, devoting 38.5% of our budgets to pension payments. Ladies and gentlemen, more pensions are paid today in Spain than ever to more pensioners than ever before and with pensions higher than ever, and that is why I think we need to be proud of what we have built among all of us. It is a system that has been demonstrating strength since the beginning of the crisis in 2008, although it is true that demography is putting our pension system increasingly under pressure. As you know, we have 9.4 million pensions and we are going to exceed 16 million in 2050. The expenditure on pensions has more than doubled since 2000 -53 billion euros - currently amounting to 118 billion euros. We have one million more pensioners in the last decade and in addition to the demographic challenge we have the employment challenge. From the People's Party we have always argued that the best measure to guarantee pensions is job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already recovered half of the jobs lost during the crisis; 1,600,000 jobs recovered from the 3,300,000 lost in the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, today the growth of employment in Spain is three times higher than the growth of pensions, which is fundamental to the sustainability of the system. Many quiet reforms have been made to mitigate demographic effects. There is Law 27/2011 itself, which introduced a socialist government, which raised the retirement age. Here are the reforms of the People's Party government, such as the restriction of early retirement - it is not possible that more than 50% would retire before retirement age -, promoting compatibility between work and pension - sustainability factor that will start to produce its effects as of January 2019 - or the pension revaluation index, which is one of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. Ladies and gentlemen, pensioners have had gains in purchasing power in recent years and the average retirement pension has risen from EUR 915 in 2011 to EUR 1,049, said the minister today. Therefore, it has increased by about 14 %. Many of these reforms have not completed their implementation, i.e. they have to continue to cause their effects, but they have been appropriate reforms. The consequence of all this is that there are no recommendations from the European Union on pensions in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. It must be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, that we have one of the highest replacement rates in Europe, namely the second after Holland. That is, we are talking about the relationship between the last salary and the first pension. The replacement rate in Spain is more than 80% when the OECD average is slightly higher than 50%. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that our system in order to be viable in the medium and long term needs mechanisms to sustain it and we must continue to insist on the path of the reforms initiated in order to ensure that the system is solid and guaranteed for generations to come. For this reason, we wanted to reach with all groups a national pact that endorses the future of pensions so that the Toledo Pact can analyse the economic, financial and demographic circumstances that can guarantee the sustainability of our public pension system. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that we make it possible for pensioners in this country to be proud of their politicians. It is a first step that we have taken today, it is an important agreement and we have to show that we are capable of achieving a great national agreement on pensions. The members of the Toledo Pact Commission we have to be a team, the pension team, and together, united in defending the best social protection system we have in Spain, we have to achieve among all that great pension pact. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us be responsible and put aside party interests. It is an honour for me to be part of the Toledo Pact Commission, the great social pact for democracy and, as I told you this morning in the Commission, our hands are open and open to dialogue, agreement, negotiation and consensus, as we have tried to achieve this afternoon. Let us send a message of tranquillity to our pensioners telling them that we are able to reach a great deal. It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, and it is our responsibility. We owe it to our elders and we owe it to our young people too, because they also deserve it. I am grateful to all parties for the spirit of dialogue and consensus that has taken place this afternoon and keep in mind that the People's Party will always find us in dialogue, negotiation, agreement and consensus for the benefit of our public pension system and our pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u54	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Candela Serna, first of all, is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in order to reach a consensus in the Toledo Pact, we have to start with a finding that the policies on employment and pensions of the People's Party have been a failure. The labour reform of the People's Party has lowered wages by an average of 10%, which has led to lower contributions being made in the same jobs. These are the main problems of the pension system and we have to act on this. Since I only have one minute, I'll tell you one thing. We are open to consensus, but we start from a reality. We cannot repeat a consensus on the same proposals, on the same policies that have led to the current situation in the pension system. Consent yes, but away from the policies of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u56	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor. [[Rumors]] I pray silently before Mr. Campuzano begins. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Spain, we are for the pact, we are for the Toledo Pact, we feel responsible for the Toledo Pact, we were the driving force behind it in the 1990s and we are also involved in strengthening the public pension system. We will therefore vote yes to the text that is being offered to us. I just want to remind you that that attitude that you have shown in this House today in this initiative I wish you would have had in 2011 and 2013. Then the People's Party, when it was in opposition or when it had absolute majority, did not practice this policy in this matter. Welcome, therefore, back to the Toledo Pact, let us get to work and make it clear that the challenge is sustainability, but also the adequacy of pensions. There cannot be a system that is sustainable without the amount of pensions being sufficient to guarantee the dignity of pensioners. This will also be a challenge of the current renewal of the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u58	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I want to say two things. First of all, a real anguish is being created in many older people in this country because the discourse that is taking place that the Social Security Fund has been eroded - that is not because that fund existed precisely for moments like this - and that pensions are at risk causes anxiety and anguish in this country and all political forces have the responsibility not to use pensions as an electoral weapon, a political weapon against the opponent, but to reassure people. Secondly, we are going to support this proposal, but we would like, as in all the state pacts, not only the parliamentary groups, but all the political forces. That is why I say again that if it is a state pact we request all parties and the mixed being. Finally, I am glad that the People's Party has also put the analysis of non-contributory pensions; those non-contributory pensions that are so important in my land, of people who have not worked, but have worked like a fool all their life but who have not been able to contribute because they emigrated or because at that time they were not listed in certain areas. That is why I think this issue is important: pensions and non-contributory pensions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u60	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Navarro People's Union is in favour of reaching new agreements within the framework of the Toledo Pact to guarantee pensions. I'd miss more! And we are also in favour of all political forces, not political groups, but all political forces being represented in that state pact. I said it in the investiture debate and I repeat it again. We are currently at a time when in Spain sadly fewer children are born, where fortunately we live more years and therefore there is no generational relief. Faced with this situation, sociologists are already anticipating a demographic suicide, a population debacle. Let us stop looking at the feet, let us stop looking at the next four years in electoral terms and let us really look at the future of this country to guarantee pensions and, of course, the social and health system and the future of intergenerational convenience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Yllanes Suárez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that when I first read the title of the non-legislative proposal presented by the People's Group, my surprise was great at the ambitious wording: the great national pact, the Toledo Pact, the strengthening of the public pension system. Surprised not by the terms used, with which we absolutely agree, but by the fact that the parliamentary group that proposes them is the same that has ruled by absolute majority in the last four years and that in 2013 it carried out a reform of the pensions, deepening in which it had occurred in the year 2011, which will have as a necessary consequence the loss of purchasing power of the pensions in the coming years, Government that has also emptied the hedge of the pensions until leaving it in figures that guarantee that it will be left without funds to fulfill its function in the year 2017, in addition to having left the accounts of Social Security with the largest hole we have known in the history of our young democracy; nothing more and nothing less than 18 billion euros. Moreover, the latest reform that the PP government made in 2013 introduced in our regulation the sustainability factor, which will lose up to 15% of the purchasing power of pensions over the next few years, which still contradicts its stated desire to strengthen the public pension system. This morning, in the Committee on the Toledo Pact, we had the opportunity which we had been denied until today to listen to the Minister for Employment in attendance. I am not going to develop what you said in that appearance, but I can make a few mentions, for example, that you consider Social Security to be an irreplaceable pillar of our model of society, which is still a complete toast to the sun; you say that pensions are guaranteed in the medium and long term, but without giving any reason for science on that claim; you are pleased that the European Union has not made any recommendations to us since 2013 and that in some way strengthens the solidity of the system; or you are also pleased that China has chosen the Spanish pension system to be inspired when it comes to creating its own public pension system. I will not bore you with the specific figures that have been given, but it is enough to give you two details. First, we are told that the average pension has risen to EUR 1,050, avoiding any mention that 49% of the pensions in this country are below the poverty line, and also that the highest percentage of female pensioners are women, which makes Spain the country with the highest gender gap in pensions according to the European Union itself. Secondly, that pensioners and pensioners have been gaining purchasing power since 2013 thanks to the revaluation rate, although this morning it was published on the cover of a national circulation newspaper - I quote textually - that pensioners will lose purchasing power because of the increase in energy, adding that the CPI will increase by 0.9 % while pensions will increase by 0.25 %. For these reasons which I have just set out and for which I will then develop, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea will abstain in the vote on this non-law proposal. In this great pact that they propose to us, we will have to talk about many things that need to be changed to ensure the sustainability of the public pension system. The first and most urgent of all is labour market reform. Despite Mr Rajoy's sustained auto-bomb on employment creation policies in how many speeches he has had before this House, the fact is that employment in Spain is of low quality, precarious and temporary, with very low wages and social contributions at minimum. Only in this way can it be explained that the number of members of the social security system is the same today as in 2011 and yet you have decreased your income by contributions, showing that a significant part of the problem that we are dealing with today has been created by you, the People's Party Government, with your employment policies. Despite the recovery of jobs, the fall in wages, the lower protection of the unemployed as a result of their labour reform and the policies of flat rates and bonuses have not allowed the recovery of the level of contributions that had previously been made. It will not be enough to recover the pre-crisis employment levels, but to raise wages, especially the inter-professional minimum wage, because it is impossible to modernise our productive system with wages that run the poverty line, and to recover collective bargaining of wages so that they can recover what they lost. The fall in wages only allows us to compete from below and leads us to the abyss. Competition from above not only allows us to modernize the production system, but also improves social security accounts. We will have to talk about the fact that it is not demography that puts pensions at risk, although it has been constantly mentioned in the explanatory statement of the non-law proposal, and that social security is economically sustainable. The problem we have is to maintain a system exclusively financed by social contributions, and we will therefore propose the necessary measures to ensure sufficient income, both by eliminating the current ceiling on contributions and by means of a more progressive tax system through the State's General Budgets. Pensions must be relinked to inflation in order to prevent tax collectors from continuing to lose purchasing capacity year after year, preventing public pensions from becoming quality pensions in the future. I'm done, Madam President. Only by reversing the labour reforms that have eroded wages or the creation of quality jobs as the main objective and by expanding the sources of social security income, considering the possibility of financing the system through other tax revenues, by eliminating the current ceilings on contributions, bonuses and flat rates and by combating fraud more effectively can the words great national pact, Toledo Pact or strengthening the public pension system be given substance. If on the contrary, as we fear, its main purpose is to introduce variables that make it necessary to privatise in part the public pension system or to cut its amount, we assure you that they will face us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u65	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party should not be discussed in the Parliament of this XII Legislature. Firstly, because this is a cynical proposal and, secondly, because it is a trapping proposal, especially in its explanatory statement - as other previous speakers have said - as a result of all this demographics. It is cynical because the People's Party, throughout the X and XI Legislature - that is, five years - has been no match day, day also to this Parliament, and cheating because it wants to settle - from the reading of the explanatory statement to which I referred - a state of opinion of a reality that is not. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as much as they repeat that the crisis of the system is because of the increase in ageing, they are not going to make it true. That false litany says very little about you, when what you are putting forward at this time in this House and this morning by the Minister is consensus. Mrs. Spain, we deny you the greatest. All the groups in this House have recalled this morning the none of the People's Party to the Toledo Pact over these five years, and not only to the Toledo Pact, but also to the consensus with the social actors, to unilateral reforms, and they have suffered no harm in what we have manifested and recriminated to them. They've never performed spectacularly, as I told them this morning. Even in the period of government of the People's Party from 1996 to 2004, when the president was Aznar, he had been respecting the content of the Toledo Pact, which has been in force at every moment, and always without breaking the social and political concertation. This morning we were listening to the minister, Fatima Báñez, and frankly we were hallucinating - I can say for sure - because she was talking about a reality that she has in her mind together with her heads of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security. Gentlemen of the PP, I remind you of this because you seem to have selective amnesia; you have not contributed anything to the consensus in this House for just five years, and even less so to the consensus in this sensitive area, such as the sustainability of pensions. I must honestly tell you that you should have withdrawn this GNP, but as I believe that you are taking things to the end I do not want to stop saying that the Socialist Group is going to be here until the last moment to reach a consensus, but a consensus aimed at recovering what you have dismantled. [[Applauds]] This is so, they have been able to dismantle and break down the pension system by the back door, weakening income with a labor reform that they will have to rectify. As much as the President of the Government - who is certainly not - says that he does not intend to rectify anything, they will have to rectify that labour reform, as they will have to rectify that factor of sustainability and the rate of pension revaluation that has been so regressive for the purchasing power of pensioners. Forgive me for saying so, Mrs Spain, I am surprised that you say that we have a system that seems exemplary to the European Union. Of course, he seems exemplary because he's gone down. You tell me that we are part of the ninth place in the GDP of expenditure. We are behind Greece and Portugal. You don't think so? And on top they want to cut more. The minister said that this morning. He said: we are very happy because the European Union recognizes the reforms we have made and we will further reduce public spending. We will not be there with you, and less to the detriment of the retirement pension of the citizens of our country, who are more than 9 and a half million at this time. The fact that pensioners are growing is not thanks to you or your group; pensioners are growing because it was already planned, for example, in the 2011 reform agreed by the Socialist Party government with the social partners. By the way, a consensus which you renounced at the last moment on an electoral issue; elections were coming and you did not want to acknowledge that you had extended the retirement age to sixty-seven years. [[Applauds]] We have reached this agreement, this compromise, because we want the pact to be achieved. We are very clear that we are going to bring these GNPs and these PLs to an end - proposals which, by the way, the Minister has devoted herself to disaggregating throughout her speech; that is, we have already contributed, we have already done work in this Parliament. To begin with, the proposal for a law on the revaluation of pensions, so that in 2017 it is the CPI that revaluation of retirement pensions is carried out. I'm finishing up. When I was studying law, a few years ago, there was an article in the Civil Code that spoke of good faith, an article in the Civil Code that came to collect the abuse of law. Not because one enforces the law there is no abuse of law. You, over five years, have been abusing your absolute majority to act against the pension system, and the proof we have now; against the labour system, which we have now as we have it. We do not recognize you as the greatest, Mrs Spain, nor do we approve of the prepotent attitude - I am sorry to say so - not of you, but that of the People's Party over these five years, and this morning we have also seen something in the Minister's appearance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u66	Thank you. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor in the position-setting round for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that a certain tone has been heard in the speeches made so far concerning the non-legislative proposal put forward by the People's Group to achieve a great national pact in order to strengthen and guarantee the public pension system within the Toledo Pact. Last week, the spokespersons had an interview with the minister, where there were already certain exhibitions, and today in the morning, at the minister's appearance, there has been enough and ample information, with which one can disagree or not but which has been faithfully granted by the minister, but there has also been an absence of self-criticism and even the need for this concrete non-law proposal has been justified. One of the aspects highlighted by the Minister, both last week and today, was that the Toledo Pact should be guided by a need for agreement between the parties and a certain degree of complicity or confidentiality between all the participants, something we have readily agreed to, regardless of the differences we may have had. We have all agreed not only on the importance of the pension system and the characteristics that we all recognise of the pension system as such, but also on the need to take certain measures. We will see which ones, because the broad spectrum of Congress allows us to guess that there are going to be many and very different ones that are going to be proposed. However, by trying to be as brief as possible, since the issue is not going to give much more, at least there has been some agreement to give it momentum and not to create conflict with the pension system and the Toledo Pact. There has been some agreement not to fail something that everyone has described, and it is true, as an essential element of cohesion in any society, and also in Spanish society. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, knowing also that there is a compromise proposal that has already been accepted by most of the groups, we welcome and participate in that spirit; not in each of the measures - we have our clarifications, which we have made clear in the morning at the hearing of the Toledo Pact, and so we have made it known to the Minister and the People's Party - but that we can reflect our clarifications in the work of that Commission, and not precisely in this area, where a non-law proposal is being dealt with precisely in order to pretend to unite the will of all the political groups. I repeat that we are going to participate in that consensus that has been achieved with a compromise amendment to this non-legislative proposal. We welcome and hope that spirit will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u68	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u69	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The People's Party brings us a non-law proposal in which it invites us to reach a national pact to guarantee the public pension system within the framework of the Toledo Pact. For starters, the national pacts we make in the Parliament of Catalonia. But, on the subject, we find it curious that the people come up with a dialogue and a pact when they have ruled for five years with a coup d'état, a coup d'état and no social dialogue. Why do they propose a pact now? Because they don't have an absolute majority. That's why they want a pact, because pacts are made when you have a culture of the pact or when you don't have enough strength. With pensions, it may be your case. That is why we are now being given a state pact to strengthen the public pension system; a pension system which, in the same explanatory statement, you recognise is in crisis. However, after a fairly triumphal exhibition, such as the Minister's appearance this morning, they blame the problem for virtually demographic causes or for increasing life expectancy, especially when it is not true. The most important thing is the economy and the quality of employment. If they were just demographics, we would have practically solved the issue of immigration if there was work. But that's not the case. The causes, mainly, are economic and not as if it were a natural disaster in a crisis, as if it were a tsunami or an earthquake. No, that's not true. The causes are human and very well located in the neoliberal economic policies of the troika; policies that have received the complicity of the last governments - both the People's Party and the Socialist Party - for example, by changing article 135 of the Constitution or by submitting to the wrong political guidelines, as cynically recognized by the International Monetary Fund itself. The economic crisis is a disaster caused by certain economic policies. The Spanish pension system is a good system, provided that there is an economy that works and that there is sufficient quality of employment to have decent wages to live and to contribute to the public pension system. This is not the case and this is what has failed. The Government continues to defend a layer and sword as good labour reforms, when they are leading us to higher rates of poverty and a deep crisis in the pension system. After all its reforms, unemployment continues to be unacceptable to any society, with the consequent impact on the lack of income from contributions and the increase in reserve expenditure. Wages have fallen and, as a result of the fall, the amount contributed in the form of contributions is entirely insufficient. The bonuses to social security for entrepreneurs have been more than doubtful and it would be necessary to study well what return they have had. The same can be said - to say something - of the quality of the job created, which is clearly precarious, temporary, poorly paid and which does not serve to maintain the current pension system. In short, during his term of office, labour income has fallen in relation to gross domestic product - these are also unquestionable data - compared to capital income. That is the reality of their reforms and, in a way, already gives us a first clue of the work on which to focus in order to compensate for the deferred salary lost in the form of pensions. Finally, we are open to the pact, but we are skeptical, because our parliamentary group starts from the basis that it is the large-scale economic policies - the ones that have implemented in the last fifteen years - that are the causes of the current pension crisis. And we think it won't change, because we haven't seen a drop of self-criticism either in this morning's speech or in Rajoy's speech or in the statement of reasons for this non-law proposition. We are open to the covenant, it is true, but not to any covenant. A pact, for what? We're open to pacts, but we're not going to write a blank check on this. We appreciate the attitude of Congresswoman Carolina España, who has presented a good attitude towards dialogue, but the attitude is not won in one afternoon, and for five years this attitude has failed. We value it and hope that there will be time to discuss and discuss it. If we come to an agreement, fantastic, and if not, the votes will decide whether there is a pact or no pact. Anyway, we appreciate your attitude, but, I repeat - I want to make it clear - the credibility lost in five years does not recover in one afternoon, although it is better to start now than ever. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u70	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from my parliamentary group we welcome the fact that it is precisely the People's Group that is bringing to the House today an initiative to achieve a great national pact, within the Toledo Pact Commission, to strengthen and guarantee our public pension system. And I say precisely because it is you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and your Government, who, for four years of absolute majority, have taken the decisions, not only in the area of pensions but also in other important social security matters, totally behind the back of the Toledo Pact Commission, or what is the same, from the back of the other parliamentary groups and from the back of the social partners; four years of absolute majority where the problems that we must now face among all of us in the short term have worsened. We are talking about pension financing problems, bearing in mind that, as you all know, we currently have a deficit of around EUR 17 billion and that all the forecasts tell us that the Social Security Reserve Fund will be exhausted by the end of 2017. But neither have they had the courage to undertake the structural reforms that the system needs and have devoted themselves to putting patches on the problem and, more importantly, always on the back of the Toledo Pact Commission, something we think is a custom in this Parliament because we also saw it done to the Socialist Party when it came to freezing pensions, which did not have the pact either. You speak in this initiative that the main problem or challenge facing the system emanates from demographic issues, and in part you are right. Therefore, Citizens in the agreement of 150 measures for the investiture we demand measures that encourage birth, such as the increase of maternity or paternity leave up to twenty-six weeks, or the recovery of bonuses in the matter of self-employed women who return to work within two years of childbirth. But from our point of view the real problem is our growth model, especially our labour market. As you all know, we have structural unemployment around 18% and a dual and precarious labour market, as my colleague Saul said earlier, where around 7 million workers earn annual income that does not exceed the minimum wage. We must therefore bring about changes to our model of employment relations, but not only that - and we said it this morning - it is not only necessary or sufficient to generate employment, but it must generate quality employment because, ladies and gentlemen, without decent jobs we will hardly be able to get decent pensions. In addition, we are faced with a new challenge following the judgments that everyone knows from September 2016, which in essence come to give reason to our thesis that we must move towards a recruitment model that tends to bring in rights temporary workers and indefinite workers. To this end, we welcome the appearance of the Minister of Employment and Social Security, Mrs Fatima Báñez, this morning, in which she has ensured that the Government's intentions are to advance the implementation of the agreements with Citizens both in terms of the reorganization of sources of funding, in terms of the voluntary prolongation of working life, as well as in terms of unemployment and the fight against job insecurity, moving towards a labour market that reduces the duality and precariousness of our labour relations. However, on the subject that we are dealing with in this initiative and on which we discussed this morning, I would like to say to the Minister - we do not have her here, but to Mrs Spain - that we are sincerely disappointed, because the reality is that this morning when we joined the Commission we hoped to get out of it knowing at least what the road map of this government would be to solve the problem of short-term financing of pensions with the high deficit we have and the exhaustion of the Reserve Fund. In the end, we welcome, as it cannot be otherwise, that the Government wants to regain the Toledo Pact by seeking consensus, but we believe that it is up to you and your Government to take the initiative. You have taken the initiative in leaving the Reserve Fund as you have left it and bringing us to this deficit and we understand that you too now have to take the initiative in proposing solutions. We will vote in favour of this initiative to reopen the Toledo Pact, as it cannot be otherwise, because it is also one of the demands that Citizens had in the agreement with the People's Party, but it must be you - and I repeat, it must be you - who put the solutions on the table to end this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u72	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Reina whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u73	We have signed a compromise that we have already raised to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u74	Thank you very much. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SOCIAL, POLITICAL AND INSTITUTIONAL COVENANT FOR THE IMPROVEMENT, MODERNIZATION, AGILIZATION AND INDEPENDENCE OF JUSTICE. [[File number 162/000091]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u75	We move on to agenda item 4. No bill by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the creation of a social, political and institutional pact for the improvement, modernization, acceleration and independence of justice. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mr Gómez Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Montesquieu is dead. I'm sure you know that phrase. Don Alfonso Guerra, Vice-President of the Government, was appointed when the legislative reform that gave this Parliament the power to elect all members of the General Council of the Judiciary was passed. The phrase has transcended its author, in fact he himself in his memoirs denies that he said it. It has become one of those topics that we all understand exemplifies in this case the interference of politics in the judiciary and the loss of confidence of citizens in the administration of justice. However, we do not hesitate to acknowledge that the vast majority of judges, judges and prosecutors carry out their daily work impartially and without prejudice. The problem is in the system. But whether or not to say the phrase Don Alfonso Guerra, it seems that all governments have had a special interest in killing Montesquieu, in appointing the judges who then have to judge them. In fact, Mr Rajoy himself, who promised to save him in his 2011 election program, also succumbed to the temptation accompanied by the majority then present in this House. But Mr Rajoy now has an investment agreement with Citizens and he has to comply with it, an agreement that establishes in his paragraph 131 to implement a national strategy of justice from the dialogue with political forces, the various operators of justice and citizens in order to promote justice in accordance with the reality of the 21st century, ensuring the independence of its functioning and strengthening the configuration as a public service of quality. This text and other points of the investment agreement are those we have incorporated into our original initiative by means of a self-amendment. Indeed, it should also be remembered that in the agreement for a reformist and progressive government, signed with the Socialist Party, we talked about ensuring merit and capacity in judicial appointments. Ladies and gentlemen, political appointments are not the place where merit and capacity prevail. Consider it. We cannot imagine that the Socialist Party does not want to join today in achieving more independent justice. We do not imagine that any party present in this House wants to continue to set sail in the administration of justice. It should also be recalled that this same initiative has already been adopted in the Committee on Justice. So you will wonder why we are bringing you to plenary today. Ladies and gentlemen, some things have happened since then. First, with that agreed and approved text, our commitment to the independence of the judiciary, our model for the election of members of the General Council, which has not changed a bit, was questioned or questioned. We continue to maintain that out of the 20 votes, the 12 from judicial sources are directly elected by the judges and magistrates. Ladies and gentlemen, we say who has to choose them - the judges and the magistrates - but we do not say how, the formula is open. We will have to agree with it by the political parties on the proposals that the associations bring to us, of course also combining it with the necessary representation of non-associated judges or independent judges. Secondly, it has also happened that the Government has vetoed our bill, that of my parliamentary group Citizens, to reform the judicial fees and to abolish those imposed on SMEs and NGOs, so, gentlemen of the People's Party, today is a good day to explain to us how they intend to adapt the Tax Act to the Constitutional Court's ruling and especially if they are willing to eliminate, to abolish in whole or in part the judicial fees to SMEs and NGOs. We don't care if it isn't through our initiative, we don't care if we end up calling the Catalá law of suppression of court fees; what we want is for it to be done, so do it now, please. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, we want to ensure that when our fellow citizens cross the door of a courtroom they do not have to pay a toll for claiming these credits, that small credit from a family enterprise, for example, and that they also have the guarantee that they will meet an independent and impartial judge, as they are already - because they are already -; ladies and gentlemen, what we do not want is for them to have the slightest shadow of political power, of a political power capable of influence or decision over their fates, their promotions, their permits or their disciplinary regime. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we present to you a text amended more ambitious than the original one, in which, in addition to involving all political parties in the so-called national justice strategy, we propose to provide them with a sufficient budget for justice, because we do not want justice to remain the poor sister of the budgets; to implement a specific plan of modernization of the administration of justice, endowed with 500 million euros in the investiture agreement signed with the People's Party; to reform the Law on Judicial Fees, adapting it to the ruling of the Constitutional Court and providing for exemptions for SMEs and NGOs; to implement the judicial and fiscal offices, seeking to make them more efficient and, of course, to ensure the independence of our judges and magistrates, not only with regard to the appointment of their governing bodies but also by reviewing their regime of incompatibilities, rotating doors and strengthening their career, giving priority to merit and capacity and not only to seniority in processes that are more transparent. Please think, ladies and gentlemen, that this non-legislative proposal does not seek to close any doors; what it seeks to do is to open the doors of dialogue between political parties and also with so-called legal operators. We will have to listen to them and we will have to take them into account if we want to reach a good port. What we do not want in any way, ladies and gentlemen, is more headlines like this one, headlines with a reprobation from the Council of Europe and saying: The institution believes that there has been no progress in guaranteeing the independence of judges. [[Shows the headline of a newspaper]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The reform and improvement of the administration of justice is a priority for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group because we are convinced that this will improve the fight against corruption, improve the perception that citizens have of the institutions as a whole and also positively enhance our ability to overcome the profound economic crisis suffered in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u77	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have tabled an amendment to the initiative on justice which Mr Gómez Balsera has defended in order to extend with two other points the content of the original proposal. On the one hand, at the Forum, we consider it essential to reform the Law on Demarcation and Judicial Plant to adapt the judicial plant to new social needs and to transform the demarcation so that the existence of judicial parties is based on a minimum population criterion of 50,000 inhabitants of the law, always taking into account the ease of communication. Over time, it has been shown that the judicial plant has become obsolete, and the judicial network needs to be modernized according to objective criteria of population, communications and services. In this sense we are committed to a new territorial demarcation by concentrating the judicial parties in places that allow all citizens to extend the services that can currently be provided only in the capitals, as well as dividing or separating the jurisdictions, establishing general common services of registration and distribution, notifications and embargoes, archiving, execution, etc. In short, offering quality service to citizens. Furthermore, at the Forum, we also consider it necessary to revise the concept of the new judicial office with the aim of promoting the modernization and speeding up of justice, redefining and precisely determining the distribution of powers between judges and judicial secretaries, as well as to promote the implementation of the digital file, which, together with other measures, will enable us to deal with the increase in litigation and to speed up the settlement of disputes. Finally, with regard to the content of the proposal, we agree with this great pact for justice, which, among other things, restores independence to the governing body of the judiciary and fosters the institutional regeneration that was crushed in the General Courts with the distribution of council members on the basis of party quotas. As stated in the Journal of Sessions, I am honoured to have been the only senator who then, exactly three years ago, rejected him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u79	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are debating the non-law proposal presented to us today Citizens, Dr Jekyll of the Spanish justice policy in this case, because at the moment you are standing up to the adalides of how to achieve judicial independence, of how to walk towards their impartiality, adorned with grandiose prescriptions, all aimed at achieving Shangri-La in the field of justice, and within a short time you will take the pacima 'I am willing to have no credibility for Spain' and you will become Mr Hyde to vote yes to the anthological shame of allowing a political process with the authorization of this House. Is this how you intend to give lessons on how to achieve independent justice? On these foundations are they going to build a justice... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u81	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Please, keep quiet. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u82	Thank you, President. On these foundations - I said - are you going to build your judicial independence? Well, don't count on us for it. Who are you, gentlemen of Citizens? Dr Jekyll, in favour of judicial independence through written statements, or Mr Hyde, voting yes to a political trial in this case against Congressman Francesc Homs for defending political ideas? What are you talking about? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Today it is going to happen that two hundred and fifty-four deputies will alter the vote of three and a half million people, allowing Francesc Homs to be judged in a political process that will have consequences, that the judiciary...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u83	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u84	I'm done. ...that the judiciary...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u85	One second. Just ask the question, Your Honor. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u86	Thank you. The judiciary will alter the composition of this House, which amounts to saying that it is not the people who elect their representatives as sovereigns. Ladies and gentlemen, with these members we will not be able to communicate with you with your judicial independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u87	For the same Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am firmly committed to modernising justice, understanding that justice worthy of that name must be swift, forthcoming and economically accessible. In order to be agile, superfluous intra-trial resources must be abolished, and courts and prosecutors must be provided with the necessary support from specialized expertise professionals. Notification services need to be improved in order to avoid suspensions of procedures and views. We must encourage the use of videoconferencing. We must ensure that judges stay in village courts so that they are not places of passage and thus avoid instructions that they always recommend, such as that famous of Mr Carlos Fabra who lasted up to eight years. We also want proximity justice and this requires the maintenance of a plant based on the judicial party, which must be matched with the natural and administrative regions. It is also necessary to ensure that judges, prosecutors and officials have sufficient knowledge and use the language of the place where they operate and their culture, in order to ensure the comfort of users and also to ensure that the application of laws is in accordance with social reality, which is a criterion referred to in article 3.1 of the Civil Code. It must also be ensured that successive judicial bodies are exhausted within the respective higher courts of justice, thus discharging work to the Supreme Court and following the provisions of article 152 of the Constitution. In order to be economically accessible, it is necessary to broaden the basis for the beneficiaries of free justice and to ensure that professionals who serve on their own initiative finally cover well and on time. In all these points and in others, Compromís is committed to the modernization of justice. With regard to this non-legislative proposal, we see that there are some issues that we cannot share as, for example, the return to corporatism in the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. But we are also concerned about a problem of method and it is that this GNP is misdirected. It is intended to tell the Government to make a national justice strategy, to this Government, which is a sad epilogue of the Government of the X Legislature, which is the Government that gave us a law of citizen security that turned many misdemeanours into administrative misdemeanours, thus reducing access to judicial guardianship. A government that has set us a court fee from which, gradually, by vote, we are trying to get rid and we have not yet achieved it. A government that appointed as president of the Constitutional Court a gentleman who entered that body with a party card in his pocket; Popular, of course. It is not that Government that should be the recipient of our efforts. Bring concrete proposals here so that in the new plurality in this House we discuss them in detail and do not trust a body that we know will do little for the development of justice, as we have seen so far. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u89	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u90	Mila esker, lehendakari andrea. Thank you very much, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. I am speaking on behalf of my group basically to reiterate something we have already said. It must be said that this GNP is the result of a previous GNP already presented to the Committee on Justice and has been discussed on 4 October. The rapporteur, the representative of the Citizens' Group, was endeavouring to justify his re-submission because things had happened. In fact, the only thing that has happened since October 4th is time, nothing more; and that time has not been used or we have not used it to do something that we have already established at that time. You have spoken successively in your writings of this non-law proposal for a national pact for justice, a national strategy, a social and political pact for justice; you have changed the name and the objective as you were presenting it to the Commission, now in plenary, to the extent that you were making amendments to them, etc. They were one way or another agreeing with the People's Party on the final drafting of this proposal that they are making to us now. At that time we told them: regardless of the name you are giving to this covenant or strategy or whatever you want to call it, what is it? For it is a list of tasks, it is a diagnosis of how justice is and it is a list of tasks that we should do or agree to do. Then we said to them: do not mix the tasks with the recipes or the solutions you give, there will be time to discuss it. If you want to get to work, talk and do it. At that time we abstained and what we told them was: Let's talk, let's do this list of tasks together and from here we will discuss the solutions, each from our point of view. I must admit, on behalf of my group, that we have some disappointment, because at that time since 4 October there has been no rapprochement or dialogue to agree on what we open as a show of will, if you will, negotiator. Today they bring us here this non-law proposal with which they re-indicate, from our point of view, justice simply as a power of the State. In this correction and modification that you have presented today there was a certain light of hope because you were speaking - so you had put it - even with your small mouth, of public service of justice. We said: good, they listened to us in the Commission. They did not just say it was a power, but also a public service. Come on, let's walk. But listening to him now in this rostrum, I'm sorry to say that they re-emphasize the same thing. You have a conception of justice as the power of the State and it is very well, it is also a power of the State, but we also understand that it must be addressed as a mechanism of democratic correction, of balance of powers, etc. Is that what's worrying citizens every day? If you put yourself in the shoes of judges, lawyers, prosecutors and citizens who are in court every day, you will see that they are not so concerned about the legal architecture of the State. However, when you read the explanatory statement for this non-legislative proposal that you raise, there are two issues that come to light. You talk about the politicization of justice, the lack of impartiality and also - here is the surprise - a problem of competitiveness generated by justice. In our view, this stems from the fact that you are not really interested in making a list of tasks to deal with justice as a public service, because then we would have to talk about equipping judges and courts with sufficient support mechanisms, we would have to talk about free justice, we would have to talk about what happened to those fees that were going to go to free justice, we would have to talk about the competitive sharing, absolutely crazy sometimes and that generates a demonic isocele triangle between the autonomous communities and the General Council of the Judiciary. In short, we would have to talk about many things that, of course, are not here. I do want to talk about impartiality for a second. The problem is not how judges are elected, whether we are in favour of parliamentarianism; whether or not it is done in a Parliament is not important. The problem that has occurred in recent times is not the parliamentary election - and I say this knowing that we have another way of choosing, directly by the citizenry - the problem that has occurred, proposers, is the partyocracy, it is the fact that in the end the judges are elected for partisan, not even political reasons. Someone will have to say that in this country of countries judges have ideology, like all people, and that, therefore, they act according to ideology, but that the mechanism of choice does not necessarily have to be partisan because then we add a client regime, and in addition to that client regime you, with the introduction of the associations of judges, what they claim is also to make a corporate regime.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u91	Mr. Santos, you have to finish. Your time's run out.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u92	We therefore do not understand or share this solution. In short, they lack public service measures, mix problems with recipes and do not dialogue since the last. We shall see in those budgets, which you seem to be negotiating, how this bet of the pact or the strategy is being put into practice. Thank you. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u93	Thank you very much. In the course of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. With regard to the pact for justice proposed to us Citizens, I will begin by making some preliminary reflections. [[The Lord]] The first is a terminological reflection: pact for justice, national agreement for justice, national strategy for justice. We would talk about the administration of justice rather than justice. Justice is an idea, an abstraction and a value; the administration of justice is something more human, it is what we do, like Plato's cave, without pretending to name it now. In addition, we manifest ourselves through laws in plural societies with conflicting interests, hence some doctrine has pointed out that the law is simply a diagonal between conflicting interests. The second reflection I want to make is a political reflection on how the pacts of coexistence in the twenty-first century should be in a pluralistic society in which different projects coexist. They must be minimum agreements. Basic and stable consensus is sought. They must be liquid pacts in which different options flow; pacts of unclosed principle and which, to the extent that they order coexistence in an essential way, must be accepted by the vast majority. Minorities should not be excluded. They must be rules of the basic coexistence game that are not subject to political vavenes. The third is a methodological reflection. We believe that the basic document for an agreement by the Administration of Justice should not be drawn from the executive branch, but from the cooperation of the judiciary, its governing body, with the legislative branch. The General Council of the Judiciary, the governing body of the Judiciary, is, in our opinion, the one who must make a diagnosis, explain the alternatives he considers and present them to this House for consideration, debate and decide on their suitability or other alternatives, with the participation of the Executive, the Government, and all this without prejudice to the initiatives that the Executive Power decides to propose at any time under its powers and to which, of course, we will also attend. Following these preliminary considerations, a brief review can be made of how we have operated in the past on this issue. In 1997, it started with a white book of the justice council, from which a series of cascade pacts emerged. In 2014 it was intended, through a bill passed in this House, to commission a new white paper to the council that was not finally drawn up. Tomorrow, in this House, we will be discussing another motion for a resolution by this parliamentary group - although I believe that the sitting has been postponed - urging the Council to present a new white paper on the problems and alternatives of justice. Finally, I would like to stress that there is a general consensus on the strategic role of the Administration of Justice for society from all possible points of view and that a reflection-diagnosis on its state, on its present and future challenges, should be made of this diagnosis and these basic and transversal prescriptions involve social and professional, political, institutional and, of course, judicial actors in order to reach basic consensus, as I said, stable and transversal. Already entering the Citizens' proposal, it seems to us methodologically appropriate, because it diagnoses and prescribes, because it entrusts to the Executive the elaboration of what it calls a pact for justice and because it is a closed, non-open proposal. For example, in this parliamentary group we do not share many of the reflections on the lack of independence of the judiciary, nor do many other statements that are given as an unquestioned budget to solutions that are pointed out. Nor do we share proposals whose implicit motivation is given as indisputable by obvious, because perhaps to us they are not so obvious or so indisputable. What do I mean by all this? That for a pact by the Administration of Justice to be cross-cutting and stable and to order coexistence in an essential way must not be based on previous aspects that are not contrasted and validated. There are many examples in the document of issues that are cited and discussed in a questionable manner and of others that are not mentioned or that are mentioned in an oblique way, for example, the adequacy of the structure of the Administration of Justice to the autonomous State. In short - and I am finalizing - we will not support the proposal that we are now debating either by the methodology suggested or by the diagnoses and principles contained in the proposal or by the attitude of its proposer, namely in parliamentary terms. We believe that this document is more discord than concord. We believe that a healthy and constructive start to a so-called pact for justice cannot start by bringing to the plenary of this House its model and vision of the issue. Nor is it worth if he brings us his investiture pact. For an agreement to be a basic framework in the sector, it must include the opposition and its minorities from the outset, giving nothing of course and without a previous debate. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u95	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u96	Thank you, President. It is clear that no one can a priori be against what the title of the GNP announces. Another thing is whether or not the content has a bearing on it and to what extent there is a real will to address the problems facing the administration of justice. That's why I want to remember those meetings of jurists progress of the seventies and eighties - to me my mentors explained it -. By the way, one of those jurists who met to discuss justice ended up being Minister of Justice and one of them is currently mayor of Madrid. These jurists raised the eternal question: Does justice have a solution? Surely, yes, but from the point of view of Republican Left obviously does not go through... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u97	Wait a minute, Mrs. Capella. Please, I would beg your silence so that we could listen to the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u98	As I was telling you, the solution certainly does not pass through the non-law proposal that citizens put us here today. In Esquerra's view, it is a proposal which is a good one with a certain pretension and with little content; moreover, I would say that it is the same one that the Group of the European People's Party presented in the Commission. I will therefore continue to formulate and reformulate the questions that have been asked to us by the jurists over the years. Why is justice not effective or efficient? What is the annual budget devoted to justice? What is the annual allocation of the Government to the Administration of Justice? What increases have you had over the past forty years? Why does citizenship have no confidence in justice? What leads to thinking of a citizen who doesn't work justice? There was already a State Pact for Justice. Do you remember? It was in 2001. There are some salvable things in that pact, for example, the Civil Prosecution Act, the introduction of orality in civil proceedings and the recording of trials; the recording of criminal trials cost us a little more. Europe day after day draws from the ears to Spain in the field of justice and year after year Spain is at the tail of the European countries in the field of justice. Does the judicial plant and demarcation respond to the real needs of justice in the twenty-first century? Is there justice in the neighbourhood? Does access to legal professions respond to and guarantee the quality of the service provided? Honest answers to these questions and to a few more surely would give us solutions. What does Citizens say in their non-law proposal? He tells us about the lack of effective independence of the judiciary. Totally agree, but where do the evils of this council come from? Well, the famous State Pact for Justice. I also said in the Commission that the successive reforms of the system of election of the General Council of the Judiciary have ended in a totally presidential system - and I leave it here - certainly not attributable to the current Minister of Justice, but to the evil Minister of Justice who preceded him. The record of the current presidency of the General Council of the Judiciary is worth studying and the Supreme Court often revokes its appointments. By the way, is there anything to say about judges and judges giving lectures and courses charging certain entities and companies whose disputes with third parties are to be settled later? Is this also independence? Lack of material and human means? Without resources, we lack material and human means. Therefore, we will not solve the poor ratios of judges per 10,000 inhabitants. Citizens are seen as the plumber, because in certain issues it never alludes to those autonomous communities that do their job well, for example in the field of justice, Catalonia, Euskadi or Navarra, pioneers in the implementation of new technologies in the Administration of Justice, in contrast to LexNET. Of course, this would mean recognizing the merit of independenceists when they rule. After this little review, which was neither exhaustive nor intended to be, do you not think that before talking about the new pact, it would be more appropriate - for some of us to feel questioned, regardless of whether we are already far away from this state - to speak more often of the repeal of those laws that have led us to this lack of judicial independence or to a judicial malfunction? For example, the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, the last reform, which confers the capacity to execute judgements and to disqualify public office, or the Anti-Terrorism Law, which contains in an article a reform that is evidently designed for the independenceists, among other reforms. And like these, other issues. Ladies and gentlemen, your non-law proposal is full of good intentions. We share his spirit, but - as I have already said - he is more committed to his desire to appear as primus inter pairs, than to serve effectively the noble objective of the reform of the Administration of Justice. It's over, President. The Republican Left is hard to believe; we have reason to believe it. As you well know, trust is woven slowly and loyally; it is sewed with silk thread, fragile in appearance, but resistant. What you claim today is not a framework of trust and loyalty, because you do not mention, as I said, what you should mention, because you do not address the need to repeal those laws that violate the foundations of a rule of law. That is why we are going to vote against your non-law proposal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like this silence that has now been made to continue when the next speaker is speaking and not to interrupt him in order to beg his silence. Since I have not been successful with my first request, I hope to be more successful this time. Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group proposes to us the adoption of a non-legislative initiative with which to unite wills on the creation of a social, political and institutional pact for justice, but it also leads us to defined postulates according to their exclusive belief. Just read your proposal to see that you already have a role model for many things, for example the election by judges of the members of the judiciary. By the way, in its amendment, and certainly seeking the agreement of the other groups, it goes even further into its proposal. We believe that this is not the right path and therefore our refusal to such a proposal. I am not going to bore you by talking to you about the situation of justice or what it is necessary to dialogue, discuss whether it is necessary and compromise to reach agreements. I stand by what the Minister of Justice said a few days ago: It is time for fruit and not flowers. So why does the Citizens Group now present us with this floral game? We should be concerned about looking for a methodology, prioritizing issues, and getting into them until we find a solution. We do not want the Socialist Group to fall again, as at a time not far away, into that dynamic of empty words and immutable realities, sheltered by an alleged pact. We want realities like those that took place under the last socialist government. Those were fruits and good ones. Among all - all, ladies and gentlemen - we determine what to do, when and how to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking for an accession contract under the formula of apparent consensus and it is not a good working method. To justify it, they will allow me to read you some lines of a very brief quote, which refer precisely to the consensus or the misunderstanding of it. Beginning of the quote: We are faced with a kind of talisman, because sometimes with his only invocation we want to be presented as a whole program of public action, but the truth is that they don't tell us anymore. They do not explain what their criteria are, how they focus on the problem. I read more about the quote: Dialogue and consensus cannot become the cover of those who have no tail, because to proceed in this way is to confuse the procedure with the substance, the path with the past and the smoke with the fire. End of the date. I believe that many of you will have already found out the author of the quote I have just mentioned; indeed, Dr. Sosa Wagner, so invoked until very recently by those who embraced the new policy. And yes, it says it in the book The Trap of Consensus, book by Thomas Darnstädt, where he analyzes the German model. But let us not be discouraged and mark a method of work; let us set priorities, and let us all resolve what has been resolved. And, gentlemen of the government, set up budgets to carry out what we are capable of consensus. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the government, open yourselves up to collective action and set aside your exclusive individualism, that of which they showed during the X Legislature, which will pass into history as the legislature of the roller. Today's a date thing, excuse me. Now it's Kapuscinski's turn. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that man's greatest discovery was not the wheel, but the encounter with the other, with the like. You, unfortunately, forgot this discovery and only cared to make others responsible for all the problems. Nefarious legislation in the field of justice, although I have to tell you that I am very happy with the withdrawal in your writing of Amendment 8863. The Citizens Group calls for consensus on the lack of judicial independence, the lack of means and the obsolete organization. Excuse me, but they do not distinguish between what should be justice reforms and justice reforms. Moreover, even in their confusion, those points seem to be taken peacefully. Take, for example, the lack of judicial independence. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect I say to you that talking about judicial independence and the General Council of the Judiciary is wrong. In the judiciary every judge has to be independent and is independent to the extent that he judges and executes the executed. That is not preached in the political body of the General Council of the Judiciary. I refer precisely to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court in this matter. The Chief Justice himself said a few days ago that our judges are rabidly independent when they resolve their affairs. The advice and the way to choose the vowels is something else. The Constitution and the Constitutional Court, as I say, already refer to this. What a pity not to have time to explain to them once again that the current system is improveable! But don't forget one thing: the Chambers don't choose the members of the judicial career they want; they choose them from those that the judges have previously selected. I'm done. Justice has lived and lives today under the focus of provisionality, which has determined the petrification of a model. We can't improve justice, we have to build it. Let us look for a new model of justice that looks at the citizen and does not put him or her in any way, such as judicial fees. Let us look for an ambitious process involving regulatory, organisational and technological changes. In addition, this modernization process will become an indispensable condition not only for economic recovery, but also for the re-foundation of a more inclusive and ethical economic model. Under these premises you will always find the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Campo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Molinero Hoyos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, as it could not otherwise be, will vote in favour of the non-law proposal submitted by Citizens. We will do so out of coherence and respect for the agreements of this House. We cannot forget that this non-legislative proposal is a reproduction of the agreement adopted in the Committee on Justice on 4th of this month and has the same objective and purpose, which is to try to modernise justice. That is why we are going to support this non-legislative proposal presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. For this reason, because of the agreement with the favourable pronouncement of the majority of the groups in the Commission, we want to continue to improve the modernisation of justice. We want the maximum participation of all groups and the right way is to create a subcommittee that we have already requested and that is being dealt with through the appropriate regulatory channels. Ladies and gentlemen, as you very well know - although I would like to remind you anyway - the text we are debating today is nothing more than a non-law proposal. It is neither a final document nor an accession contract nor a closed list of measures, nor is it a list of tasks with their corresponding prescriptions, as some of the previous speakers have described it. It is no more or less to urge the Government to start carrying out a series of work. This document is a starting point, the beginning of a road map, for the Government to promote dialogue with political forces, legal operators, experts and citizens to achieve a national justice strategy in line with the twenty-first century. It is not a question of imposing or accepting from this moment on the recommendations contained in the non-legislative proposal; nor does it mean that the topics for discussion cannot be extended or that we intend to control the bilateral agreements reached; it is a question of setting out only a few minimum lines for discussion at the moment. That was the task that the Spaniards gave us in the last general elections when they sent us to speak, dialogue, consensus and reach agreements, and that is what the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress is doing, trying to dialogue to build modern justice in accordance with the twenty-first century. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that it is necessary to modernise justice to make it a more agile and efficient service that responds to the needs of citizens and improves the quality of the rule of law and thereby democracy, as we also agree in the diagnosis of the evils that afflict justice. We have a system of high professional and technical quality, but not very agile in the response to disputes. Well, now is the time to urge the Government to start work on improving the quality of justice. We start with a very remarkable advantage, and that is that the Government is in tune to formalize a strategic agreement for the improvement of that justice from dialogue and from consensus. That is why we have called for the creation of a subcommission, to discuss justice reform within it and not elsewhere; I would point out that within that subcommission. Neither this is the time nor this is the right place to discuss strategic points of justice; the place will be precisely the subcommission where it will be discussed. That's why, Mr. Gómez Balsera, don't worry, we'll talk about court fees. The People's Party has no problem talking about judicial fees, but we will do so in its time and place, which is nothing other than the subcommittee that will be set up for this purpose and in which all parliamentary groups will be able to present their initiatives, ideas and programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take advantage of the current composition of Parliament to build, from different perspectives and political and social sensitivities, a quality justice. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be calm about the amendment that has been tabled, to be generous in assessing the amendment and to ask you for flexibility so that we can jointly vote on this text, because, ultimately, the important thing in the amendment is to urge the Government to start work. We cannot leave this plenary without an agreement on a matter that society is calling for, we cannot get involved in sterile debates when the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards are at stake. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u103	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Gómez Balsera whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u104	We accept, Madam President, as it could not otherwise be, the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting continues in a secret manner. [[Rumors]] Please, keep quiet. As you know, since this is a supplication, first of all I move that the services of the House should invite the gentlemen who are in the gallery to leave them. The meeting was suspended in a public capacity. The session shall begin in a secret manner. The meeting was resumed in a public capacity.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. The vote will begin. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on fixing the amount of the interprofessional minimum wage. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 1 telematic vote, 341; 173 plus 1 telematic vote, 174; 137; abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u108	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON REPUBLICAL DISCUSSION, ORGANISATION AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 5/1985 OF 19 JUNE, OF THE GENERAL ELECTORAL REGIME, TO ENHANC THE RIGHT OF ACTIVE Suffrage TO THE MOST 16 YEARS. [[File number 122/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u109	We proceed to the consideration of the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, Organic, amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, in order to extend the right of active suffrage to those over sixteen years of age. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 340 plus 1 telematic vote, 341; in favour, 167 plus 1 telematic vote, 168; against, 173.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u110	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u111	We continue to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for a major national pact to strengthen and guarantee our public pension system within the framework of the Toledo Pact. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Socialist, Citizens, Basque and Mixed. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 267 abstentions, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u112	It's approved. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SOCIAL, POLITICAL AND INSTITUTIONAL COVENANT FOR THE IMPROVEMENT, MODERNIZATION, AGILIZATION AND INDEPENDENCE OF JUSTICE. [[File number 162/000091]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u113	We then move on to the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the creation of a social, political and institutional pact for the improvement, modernization, acceleration and independence of justice. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 165 against, 169 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u114	It's rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is continuing on a secret basis at this time. Please close the doors. There is no guest member in the stands. The meeting was suspended in a public capacity. The meeting was resumed on a secret basis. The meeting was resumed in a public capacity.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-22-CD161122.u116	The meeting continued in a public capacity and the meeting was suspended. It was nine and thirty minutes of the night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 15, corresponding to the Plenary held on Tuesday 15 November 2016, on page 20, first line, where it says: '...the application of these lies...', it must say: '...the application of these measures...'.
