ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u1	The meeting was called to order. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of dona Eloisa María Cabrera Carmona, I ask dona María del Carmen Navarro Cruz if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u3	In place of Don Tomás Burgos Gallego, I ask Dona Raquel Alonso Hernández if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u4	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u5	In place of Don José Antonio Nieto Ballesteros, I ask Isabel Cabezas Regaño if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u6	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u7	And in place of don Juan María Vázquez Rojas, I ask don Javier Ruano García if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u8	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u9	Doña María del Carmen Navarro Cruz, doña Raquel Alonso Hernández, doña Isabel Cabezas Regaño and don Javier Ruano García have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u10	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of No. 33, corresponding to the proposal of the Committee on Culture for the creation of a subcommission for the elaboration of an artist's statute. [[Rumors]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u11	We begin with the consideration of the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, of urgent reforms of self-employment. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg you all, ladies and gentlemen, silence. The one who doesn't want to be silent who leaves the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u12	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, guests who accompany us to the rostrum, citizens who are following us in this session and especially the self-employed, thank you for following us today and for being here. Today we begin to put threads on the needle in the face of the first problem that Spain has, which is employment; rather, unemployment. Because Spain is still the most unemployed country in Europe and remains the country that has the most difficulty in generating quality jobs; and that does not change with slogans; it is real data, ladies and gentlemen; so in this legislature we have a very difficult challenge, which is to modernise employment in Spain, and it is necessary to do so in both self- and self-employment. The other day I proposed to the President a great deal of agreement from this House to modernise the Spanish labour system and I sincerely hope that we will be able to give solutions to the Spaniards in a framework as important as employment. There are 7 million workers who, despite working every day, are poor, do not arrive at the end of the month; this is what is called labour poverty and, therefore, we must address this challenge in this legislature urgently. This is the first problem for the Spaniards and it would have to be the first problem for this House as well. We will certainly talk about this during this parliamentary term, and I hope that we will do so with consensus. In this new legislature, we must talk and dialogue so that we can all reform and modernise this failure of our labour system. But there's another fundamental leg. I was talking to them about self-employment, but self-employment is fundamental; it is for any economy, but especially for an economy like the Spanish one. Today we are going to address here the first law of Citizens in Congress, the first law of Citizens in this legislature and the first law that is processed with a large majority - I hope unanimously - of this House to help with measures to the self-employed. Because self-employed people have the worst of being workers - they have less rights than other workers - and the worst of being entrepreneurs, because many of them put their assets, their housing, in short, their savings to set up a business, to start a dream. Today what we want to do here is not to give privileges to the self-employed, today we do not want to give any gift, today we do not want to distribute subsidies; today we just want to do justice, today we just want the self-employed to have the same opportunities to start a dream, a company or to hire people to grow their business. One of these legs, as I said to you, will be the single contract, the stable contract in the modernization and definitive simplification of our work model, but the other leg will certainly be this law and also the reform of the autonomous regime. What we bring you today, ladies and gentlemen, is a double proposal. One, which will be dealt with today: the law on urgent reforms for the self-employed, and the other, the creation of the subcommission or parliamentary commission which will have to completely reform the economic regime of self-employed workers. They are two sides of the same coin: today we will deal with the proposal of law of the Citizens Group, which hopes to have the support of this House, but we will also deal in the coming days with the creation of that subcommission that we have promoted from Citizens - certainly, subcommission and law that we also ask as a demand of the Government to support the investiture - and for that it was also useful to support the investiture, so that laws like this could arrive at the Congress of Deputies. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today I am going to focus on talking about this law of urgent reforms for the self-employed, but that is not only what we need to talk about: we need to talk about employment for others and we also need to talk about reform of the self-employed regime. I will briefly give you two strokes of what the self-employed represent in Spain: today they represent 18.3% of social security workers; that is, almost 20% are self-employed. In addition, they represent - this is a figure for the first quarter of 2016 - 27.6% of employment in Spain; they account for 18% but generate almost a third of employment in Spain. Then today we are not going to talk only about self-employed workers, but about all the jobs that self-employed workers can generate in this country. One third of Spain's economy is at stake, for example, with the processing of a law such as this or the subcommission of the economic regime. That is why, as is important, Citizens wanted it to be the first law, among many others, that we present in this House. The autonomous have given during this crisis and are giving society much more than what society has given them back; and this is a fact, it is empirical, it is not an opinion. The self-employed, even though some want to turn them into the scapegoat and want to blame them for the problems in the Social Security box, are just the opposite: they are the ones who contribute to the Social Security box, they are the ones who generate employment to create economic activity and, ultimately, tax collection; they are the ones who play it, they are the ones who mortgage their home, they ask for a loan or they ask for a line of credit and they mortgage their assets to generate employment in this country. So today we come to talk about that third practically of Spain's economy, not only in terms of employment, but also of our economic model. I also tell you that the autonomous represent that pillar of the middle class of this country and I want to talk about that middle class, because there is no consolidated democracy in the world that does not have a strong middle class; think, there is no strong democracy, there is no consolidated strong middle class without a strong and prosperous middle class. So one of the obligations of a democracy is also to give recognition to that middle class that holds it, because the middle class always pays, because the middle class always pays, because the middle class always seeks employment, loses it and returns to look for it, because the middle class usually has no subsidies or privileges, only has obligations. I believe that this House, after almost ten years of crisis that we have already had in this country and throughout Europe, must also return the effort to this middle class, which has made great efforts during this crisis, at the family level, at the personal level, at the business level, and I believe that in this legislature we have a moral obligation to return to them what is, in short, this country, which is Spain. [[Applauds]] On the subject of this law, which has different developments that I will explain to you below, I will say that it also has some basic challenges in addressing this reform, and we should take these challenges into account in making future decisions in this House. The self-employed have basically six challenges in my opinion - in addition to others -: first, the lack of flexibility of the self-employed model. We are proposing in this law that an autonomous can be discharged one, two, three, five or eight days, why?, because in the economy of the twenty-first century there are people who work a day of one month, eight days, four or twenty-four and do not have to pay for all the days they do not work and have to pay for the days they work; for example, they have a lot of uncertainty, they know what they pay each month but they do not know what they enter, and that is very different from what happens in the general labour system. We are asking them for fixed obligations when they have no fixed income, and that has caused a lot of people to fall into this crisis and cannot be lifted up again. We want to make the lives of the self-employed more flexible to help them, so that when they have a bad time they can pay a little less, so that when they get better they can pay because, in short, everyone likes to be able to pay taxes. The second problem is poverty. Yes, yes, there are poor self-employed people in this country - sure some are watching or listening to us -; there are people who pay the quota of self-employed people and do not arrive at the end of the month and make a tremendous effort to pay those 294 or 295 euros each month religiously. And within that reform we want, for example, self-employed people who do not reach the end of the month, who do not reach the interprofessional minimum wage, not to have to pay that quota until they are well off. It seems common sense that those who do not have to eat, pay bills or pay rent for their company do not have to pay the same as those who do very well. This flexible regime must therefore also work against poverty, because poverty, unfortunately, has also reached the autonomous in Spain. Third challenge facing the self-employed: excessive burdens. We ask in this law that the self-employed, on equal terms with the public administration, even if they delay in payment, but depending on the delay; it is not the same to delay three days in payment for an self-employed person than to delay three months. Well, this makes it easier to delay payment, for example, of an autonomous fee, because it is not the same thing to spend three days as three villages or thirty days? In this case, we want to make it more flexible: less excessive burdens for the self-employed on equal terms with the administration. Financing. See, companies, public limited companies, limited companies have limited assets, have greater access to bank finance although they have had difficulties, but the self-employed have more difficulties on average than small and medium-sized enterprises in particular in reaching financing. I give you an example that probably many people have in their heads: an autonomous asks for a line of credit, mortgages their home, mortgages their home and goes wrong with business and loses their home. That certainly does not happen to an anonymous society, since it has limited its responsibility; it does not happen to the administrator of that society, it happens to the self-employed, who has to see how he loses his home or his property. Therefore, we want to attack and tackle the problem of funding and the second chance, gentlemen. We can't be filled with talking about entrepreneurs when we are a country where we start and fail. We want to have a country where the loser will rise again. [[Applauds]] So in that subcommission of the economic regime we also want to address the Second Chance Act because it is insufficient that we have, because it does not address the removal, for example, in debts to Social Security or to Finance. If you owe 3,000 euros to the Treasury or 6,000 euros after a business goes wrong, how are we going to crush it so that you can't get back up and start another business? We'll have to negotiate a take-off so that, in the end, he can get back up and take off that slab. It seems reasonable that if a company has limited its assets, at least one self-employed person has the opportunity to negotiate an extrajudicial removal with the Administration. On the other hand, they have another tremendous challenge: lateness. Do you know that the main losers of lateness in public administration are the self-employed? A law was passed here - which is not, by the way - but the main suppliers that do not charge from the public administration are self-governing. We want to include a clause in public contracts in order to be aware of the payment to the self-employed, not only to the Social Security of the companies that contract with the Administration. The conditions of self-employed persons must be equalled when hiring public services. And the sixth challenge they have: families and pensions. Obviously, they have to organize their lives and also have the right to a decent pension, because the self-employed, as you know, on top of them often have less pension than someone who has worked in the general labour system. These six challenges are those we want to address in this law that we bring here today and in the subcommission, which I hope is ambitious, that we do not drag our legs, that we do not drag our feet and that we are up to the circumstances to make a real revolution, a real evolution of the autonomous system in Spain. And as for the subcommittee, briefly because it is not the subject of the debate today, I ask you, especially the Government but also the other groups, to be ambitious. Let us not go to a subcommission that what it does is just the opposite of what we need. We need those who do not arrive at the end of the month not to pay, and not to pay until things go well. We need to make self-payments more flexible, we also need to make pensions compatible with those who work on their own; there are many self-employed who come to the end of their career and want to make the recovery of part of the pension compatible with that self-employment. That must be addressed in the RETA subcommission. We also believe that equalizing benefits is essential. If they are self-employed, it seems natural that they have workers' rights, but in fact they have more burdens than those who are not self-employed. Why should self-employed workers have less rights than workers in this case on behalf of others? I think they have to have the same ones, and that must be addressed with ambition in that subcommittee. And I also tell you that it has to work hard because there are hopes put into politics right now. There are many autonomous people who are seeing us today who think that we may be able to improve their lives a little bit, that we may make it a little less difficult for them; that perhaps your ladies and gentlemen and this House, which perhaps the institutions serve for many important things. [[Applauds]] I also understand and understand, as a child and family of self-employed, their skepticism; it is natural. The autonomous are skeptical because they always play it all to themselves and because no one helps them. I would ask you to open a bit of a path to hope with regard to this scepticism, that this House should provide solutions to your daily problems. But I agree that the ball is on our roof, it is on the roof of politics and on the roof of this House to solve the problems so that the autonomous and their families will again trust the institutions. Finally, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for a change, a turn of one hundred and eighty degrees. There has been a government with an absolute majority in this House that could have done everything and that is all, all that we bring in this law, all that we did not want to include in this law and all that we have to talk about in the subcommission. I only hope that, since we do not have an absolute majority, this House will do everything, and that in this House we will be responsible enough for the left, the centre and the right, to agree on the important issues of the country; and this is one of those important issues of this country, do not have the slightest doubt. So I hope and trust that this subcommission is up to it, that this law will be processed and improved. We too want to improve it and, in fact, we were even more ambitious in the initial approach with the agreement we had and with the agreement we have, and we want to take it further and we want to seek broad majority in this House to improve it. I am already moving forward, surely, to some argument from some later spokesman: do not tell me that it is not enough because what is not enough is what we have today. Don't tell me it's not enough. [[Applauds]] What we have today is not enough and what comes is much better than what we had and, if anyone wants to improve it, we are delighted because for us the self-employed are a priority like many others in this country, but especially employment. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you that we autonomous people have to return what they have given in this crisis, simply, and what they are giving today still to rise and rise again. I would tell you not to think of the autonomous - or want to hear it from them - when talking about subsidies. They don't want gifts as I told them, they don't want privileges; they just want dignity, they just want us to lift up the obstacles to carrying out their dreams and to achieving what they have proposed. For me the state does not have to give subsidies to the self-employed, but the state has to make things easier for the self-employed so that they can generate work and wealth, that they can pay taxes and that they can put their dreams into action. That is our philosophy as a party that believes in entrepreneurs, believes in freedom and believes in the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs and businesses as well. I agree with many autonomous people if we think they do not come to ask, but to let them work and let them do things better. [[Applauds]] I'd like to end with a phrase from some entrepreneur known as Henry Ford, who knew something about undertaking and launching new dreams and new projects. He said failure is simply an opportunity to start over. This time with a lot more intelligence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u13	In the course of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say to Mr Rivera that it is clear that we are going to support this bill, but that you do not believe or convey that self-government policies come to national politics and to this Congress because citizens have come. Anyone who hears you would say that this bill contains all that you have said in the speech, and does not contain it. [[Applauds]] I would like to tell you that there are many parties and many Members here who have been working for the self-employed for a long time. Of course we're going to make consensus! Of course we'll support everything! But I'm going to give you a council as a Member of Parliament from many old people here: the state pacts and agreements are talked about before, things are not presented and then support is called for. That probably doesn't matter today, but it's good at the rest. Having said that, I want to say that I started my professional career in a mutual guarantee society, and I was for ten years and lived it intensely. Moreover, if there is an autonomous community where there are no large companies, but small ones, it is Canary Islands. We have more than 100,000 autonomous women and 47,000 are women. - It's perhaps the highest percentage of women in Spain. The life of the self-employed is difficult, because you have to be a tax advisor, accountant, distributor and, if you're a woman, you get more complicated and it's impossible. Above all, we are in a global world, in which we have decided to liberalize the timetables and we must work on Saturdays and Sundays if possible, competing with large areas, with laws that generalize this deployment of large areas without timetables and with garbage contracts. Besides, you have a worker who's been with you for 20 years in your shop or in your business and it turns out that the one next door hires someone for 400 euros and is competing with you. That's the reality. Today, it is not just about this GNP, but about getting back to work - right, Lorenzo? - in all those things that ultimately determine the mass destruction machine that this country has, and above all my land, to create employment. [[looking at the rostrum]] It's simple stuff. Here - there are few - we have photographers. Well, I have a photographer friend who has to pay and doesn't know if that month is going to be able to sell enough photos to pay for what belongs to him as autonomous, but also rent, light and water, and don't cut them off. How many autonomous people have fallen down because the state, the autonomous communities and the municipalities did not pay them VAT or IGIC and had to advance it? I've experienced dramatic cases. With regard to the issue of women raised by the proposal for a citizens' law, I think it is magnificent. Conciliation and motherhood are issues of society and principles. Women in this country who have entrepreneurship have the right to be mothers and to make them compatible with their working life. We will support this initiative, gentlemen of Citizens, but it is not only you who have worked for the self-employed. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u15	Thank you very much. Next, for the Joint Group, I have the floor, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Compromís announces the vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration. Any progress will always be much in the matter of the self-employed. The proposal has positive aspects and considerable improvement and progress can be made in the process. Taking action in relation to a collective that feels and has felt with great virulence the start of the crisis is of justice. In fact, a lot of fired workers have no choice but to become self-employed. They are self-employed because they do not find any way out of the tunnel to be out of work, and the collective is very important: more than 3 million people throughout the State, representing 18% of the total number of social security members, but, although they have grown and continue to grow, they are also very concerned about the number of self-employed people who have fallen during all these years. Self-employed people have problems, when they are ill, in being able to pay their contributions because they have no income; in fact, they have not had them all this time of the crisis and have had to continue paying their contributions. And then they have problems, which must be tackled once and for all, of equal rights with other wage earners. Therefore, apart from the measures already mentioned, a measure to improve the system of contributions must necessarily be addressed, making progress on the possibility that they may be able to contribute on the basis of the net income they are receiving each month and providing for the establishment of a minimum base, similar to that of the inter-branch minimum wage, below which they were obliged to tax but could be exempt from contribution. Another measure would be to tax for the days he is discharged; it is not logical that he should pay all the month if one has been discharged on the 20th. The second opportunity should also be encouraged, so that the people who have fallen can rise again, either with flat fare and/or incentives. In short, the rights of any worker, whether salaried or self-employed, must be approximated and unified. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u17	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, welcome to self-defense. As Mrs Oramas recalled - and she is very right and said by a Member who represents the best tradition of Convergence - to the friends of ATA and UPTA who accompany us in the Chamber as witnesses - you certainly cannot find any of the reforms that have taken place in this area in the last twenty years without finding our stamp in the form of initiative, in the form of an amendment, in the form of a proposal or in the form of an idea. That is why, Mr Rivera, we share the content of the initiative we are debating today, although it is not strictly what your honor has defended from the rostrum. The content that the House is going to vote on is interesting and positive in each of its measures, but it is a modest content. I hope by resolving the issues that you put us on the table we will solve the problem of the self-employed. We also share with you that feeling of dissatisfaction that exists among self-employed workers. Therefore, the main virtue of the proposed law that we are now faced with, beyond its specific content, is the opportunity for all groups in the parliamentary process to be able to improve it substantially. I also expect a positive attitude from Citizens, beyond their ideological prejudices, to abound in the measures needed in this area. You said that on Thursday in the Committee on Employment a proposal from Citizens for the creation of a subcommittee will be discussed; another proposal from the Catalan Democratic Party will also be discussed. There we will have to agree you, we and the rest of the groups to create that subcommission, which is essential if we really want to tackle the reform of the RETA, in particular, and of the whole economic regime affecting self-employed workers in order to overcome that feeling of dissatisfaction to which we referred. Moreover, we must do so at a time when not only self-employment is becoming one of the most significant realities in our economy and in the advanced economies of our environment - in all advanced economies self-employment is growing - but also the kind of self-employment that is emerging calls into question the social protection systems that have so far protected workers on their own, but have not sufficiently protected workers on their own, because the regulation of such social protection made it more difficult to do so. Mr. Rivera, ladies and gentlemen, there we have a huge challenge. Our Social Security is designed with the mentality of the industrial economy of the twentieth century and we need a Social Security designed for the twenty-first century, with an economy different from that of the origins of that social protection system; hence the effort to be made by that parliamentary subcommittee is enormous. Finally, Mr Rivera, it is no coincidence that almost always the initiatives of self-employed people in this House have Catalan accent, because if there is a country or a nation in the Spanish state where the entrepreneurial attitude of self-employed people, the existence of an economic fabric of small, medium and micro-enterprises explains the economic and social progress is Catalonia. That is why nationalism, sovereignty in this House has always defended the autonomous. Now, as long as we are in these seats, we will continue to do so; it is our commitment to defending the interests of Catalan society. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u20	Good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an initiative which, said with all due respect and apart from the coincidence with many of your proposals, seems to us to be inappropriate, uncontextualized, partly electoralist and outside your natural debate framework. It is up to me to remember that this has already been discussed in the previous parliamentary term, in the XI. As Mr Rivera and Mr Campuzano have just recalled, next Thursday, in the Committee on Employment, we will be discussing the creation of a subcommittee to address, supposedly in its entirety, the problems, the legal situation and the possible solutions to be given to the question of self-employed workers, self-employed workers. For its part, and as will be discussed later, these reforms - those proposed in this bill - coincide for the most part with some of the measures already under discussion and appearing in the Toledo Pact. At this very moment, appearances are being held within the Toledo Pact Commission to examine how much action is desirable for the viability of the social security system, including those relating to the self-employed or self-employed system, whose convergence with the general system is one of the objectives. For these reasons, we find it inappropriate to raise this debate outside that context. It should be remembered that this affects both the contributory model of pensions and the financial situation of the system. In addition, these issues referred to in the proposed law are not the only problems facing self-employed or self-employed workers. Apart from those of the poor protection of the RETA, this group also faces others, either of a financial nature, such as the difficulties of access to finance, either relating to its liquidity, to the lateness, as has been mentioned, or to VAT, with which they also have problems. They also face difficulties in hiring or accessing technology and training and, without doubt, have problems relating to the situation of unprotectiveness in which they are in a regime which, of course, should be pointed out that it is particularly inadequate. However, we repeat, all this should be dealt with within the framework of the Toledo Pact. With regard to the proposed law as such, following an acceptable statement of reasons, it is fundamentally related to the amendment of some of the provisions of Law 8/2015, the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, and also to Law 20/2007 of the Statute of Self-Employment. It focuses in particular on measures relating to subsidies, reductions in social security costs and, finally, on other measures relating to the modification or calculation of expenditure which may be deductible under the scheme of IRPF and companies. Article 1 adds a third paragraph to Article 30 of the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015 to establish a specific charging scheme for self-employed workers and seafarers differentiated from the one set out in its first and second paragraphs. For its part, Article 2 of that proposed law amends the same legal text to add new paragraphs 2 and 3 to Article 307, moving the current 2 to paragraph 4 to modify the time of discharge, as well as to allow for the exchange of quotation bases up to four times in one year. And Articles 3, 4 and 5 respectively amend, Article 31 of Law 20/2007, of the Statute of Self-Employment, inciting, first, to extend the period of bonus of quotas to Social Security already existing in the case of discharge, which would increase from six to twelve months; Article 38.1, improving the bonus of quotas in the case of maternity, adoption, care, risk of pregnancy, etc., which would take place from this moment on whether the worker is replaced or not, and to allow it to take place on the last base of contribution and not by the minimum, as to date, which is somewhat dangerous, to say the least; and add a new Article 38a, which will allow a further twelve-month bonus and on its minimum basis for cases of reinstatement in the following two years in the case of maternity. Well, ladies and gentlemen, all these measures - many of which, we repeat, we can accept from our political proposal - must be dealt with within the framework of the Toledo Pact. Moreover, in our specific case, it is up to us to remember that these and other actions are instrumental of the managing bodies and that, with regard to them, the Basque Group has recalled that all the instrumental actions of the pension system must be transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in the terms already referred to in a 1989 judgment of the Constitutional Court, which, despite the fact that it constitutes a strange legal concept of a single box - I say strange because it did not belong in principle to the legal system - does not prevent them from being executed by the autonomous communities with competence in the management of the legal system of social security, as is the case in the Basque Country under the fifth transitional provision, Articles 10.2, 10.23 and 18 of its Statute of Autonomy. There is another final issue to which reference is also made to the proposed law, which is reflected in its additional provision, concerning the presence of self-employed persons in the Economic and Social Council, thereby amending Law 21/1991. We have already announced that this will be welcomed and will support it. Finally, we must warn of another issue that has seemed to us to be important, as another matter is being addressed in it. This is the case of the deductible expenses on the bases of IRPF and societies, which, apart from their consideration in this law, should be included in a possible debate on these taxes that could occur in the framework of the economic concert with the Basque Country and with Navarra and therefore within the framework of the first additional provision of the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country and the improvement of the furo in Navarre. For all that I have said and in the light of the assessment I have just made, we reiterate that, while we can agree with many of the proposals it contains, we believe that it is an insufficient and decontextualized proposal, perhaps even inappropriate. Even if we are allowed to say so, it has a certain electoral hue, which is possibly the product, as has been announced, of that agreement with the People's Party, which leads us, on the one hand, to denounce its inadequacy and, on the other hand, to understand that this debate needs to be addressed, only in another place and in another context. We therefore point out that while we will not support the initiative, we will not oppose it either. Our vote will be abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u21	Thank you very much. For the Republican Left Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u22	Can I step in from the seat?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u23	It can, indeed.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u24	The arguments that our dear friend, Mr Barandiaran, has made are exactly the same as we were going to make. That is why, although the issue deserves it, for reasons of brevity, we can liquidate it from here. The proposal deserves less. It is true, Mr Rivera, that the autonomous have been - I say we have, because I was until 31 December - the light cavalry of resistance to the crisis and that it is time for part of our effort to be returned. We were the ones who resist the most and we are the ones who resist the most. We are the light cavalry because when we fall we go back to riding and continue riding, despite some trampolines that the People's Party offered but that became, rather than trampolines, traps. Mr Rivera, the self-employed deserve more than their decaffeinated project, notably cut from the expectations you had generated in the campaign. Mr Rivera, you little by little know your project, above all and among many other things because you forget the main problem: the quotas of the RETA are far, far away from the Europeans; they are far above and that is the first thing to attack. And, or tempora, or mores, forgets his lordship the subject of false autonomouss. Today the press says they had one at home, it's bad luck. Anecdotes aside, because the issue deserves it, you have our abstention and our amending effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u26	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There are 3,200,000 people in our country who are waiting for us to do something. They're people who get up very early in the morning, who leave home but don't know what time he's coming back. It is people who have to do an infinity of paperwork and bureaucratic procedures by investing a time that much less is left; people who religiously pay a fee of approximately 300 euros, plus IRPF, plus the IGIC - in the case of canary - or the VAT of the invoices issued, whether or not they have collected them. Needless to say, that fee and those taxes are immobile; it doesn't matter if that month you paid five thousand euros or just ten euros, you pay it the same. It's people who, if they break a leg or sick with the flu, have to go to work forcefully, and no, I'm not talking, even if I seem to, about the Mercadona workers, although I might as well be. Of course they are people who don't dream of that paid vacation and much less of a benefit at the end of the activity, even though they have paid the dues on time from day one. From the pension contribution base we don't talk about and motherhood... motherhood is directly impossible mission. That is machismo and not what some media have accused us of this morning tortically. That's real machismo. [[Applauds]] Of course, I am talking about the people who are members of the Special Self-Employers' Regime, the self-employed and the self-employed as we normally know them. In spite of the terrible X-ray I have just described right now, which is certainly not exaggerated at all, it should be remembered that self-employed and self-employed together with SMEs generate 63% of employment in our country, that is nothing. This above-mentioned X-ray does not occur by a natural phenomenon or by the designs of the holy spirit, of which nothing, occurs by the legislation of our country, which does not correspond to reality, which is unjust, which is discriminatory and, moreover, and above all, is profoundly ineffective for the economy. That is why we welcome today's debate for admission to a law on urgent reforms of self-employment. We really celebrate it. From our point of view, and also for the associations representing the sector, there are positive concrete measures, but the general content is clearly insufficient to reverse the situation of defencelessness and precariousness suffered by most self-employed people. Still, there are positive measures. In view of the content of the PL we propose the following. One, proportional payment according to performance. This is easy: income below the minimum wage, zero fee; income above the minimum wage - i.e. around 760 euros - a proportional and progressive fee. Two, equalization of benefits with the general scheme. Assimilate the RETA, the Special System of Self-Employed Workers, to the General System of Social Security, so that they can enjoy the same rights as the rest of the working population. We're talking about layoffs, maternity, vacations, pensions. Three, facilitate credit to small and medium-sized enterprises through the ICO and the rescued financial institutions. I think that with the millions we pay citizens with the money in our pockets we could do something else; it should do something. Here's the example of Bankia. Four, a real second chance law that includes debts to Social Security and Finance. Sometimes things don't come out as one plans and after you've touched the bottom you have to have a chance to lift your head, and for that it is essential that we make debt and interest cancellation more flexible with a simplified process. It is necessary to facilitate legal aid - this is not nonsense - and to study the creation of the figure of the autonomous with limited responsibility, so that it does not respond with its own heritage, which is what happens now. Five, real and effective sanctions for those who fail to comply with the Morosity Act. This is amazing. To amend article 135 of the Constitution they were quick, they did not ask anyone; to pay the German banks before paying our education or our public health they were quick; but to pay the suppliers, no: the public administration takes a half seventy-five days, when the law says they are thirty; therefore, they are failing to do so. It's not just a shame, it's illegal. Six, introduce the cash criterion in the VAT/IGIC as universal and compulsory in order to avoid the problem of having to pay the invoices despite not having collected them. Seven, including social clauses in public tenders, extending them to subcontracting clauses. Difficulties in access to public procurement in the sector are widely known, and we must therefore prioritize social economy enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people who are committed to quality employment and have a positive impact on communities. Eight, a fundamental question which seems to be Perogrillo but which has not been made: enlargement of the actors participating in the social dialogue tables. It is already good that, with the contribution made by the self-employed and self-employed to employment, as several of your ladies and gentlemen have already commented, they have been excluded from the tables of social dialogue in this country for so many years. We must end the fact that these groups are ignored. Nine - this has fabric - increase investment and toughen sanctions for the use of self-sufficient fakes. Possibly this is one of the most serious problems in our labour market and which is rarely discussed. There are people working in the same position as their employees, on the same schedule, with the same functions and in the same company, but, of course, without the right to paid leave, without the right to sick leave or compensation for dismissal or unemployment benefit. This is a barbarity that throws down the working conditions of absolutely all the working people of this country, because they already know the famous phrase: If you do not like the conditions, there is the door, because in unemployment there are a lot of people waiting. These measures, together with the repeal of labour reforms and the rise in the minimum wage - by the way, there were people who did not support it last week just because they presented it as Unidos-Posos - it is not that they are only possible and fair, but that they are urgent and necessary to give millions of people in this country and the economy in general an oxygen balloon. As I said before, we believe that this bill is clearly insufficient, but it is a good opportunity to open up a debate necessary to improve the lives of many people. And we and we, as we are clear that that is why we are here, are going to vote in favour of the initiative, as it could not be otherwise. But let's not be fooled, the most important thing for the self-employed is to have work, to be able to pay the bills and then those bills are collected. If economic activity flows, the productive system will reach the SMEs and the self-employed, but for that to stop the cuts. The government - the one that you supported - will take out the scissors, economic activity will fall and thousands of small businesses will lock up, and then it will have served little to reform the law of self-government. That's why it's not just about being consistent one day, it's always about being coherent. I've finished my exhibition, but there's a little thing I didn't want to go without saying. Henry Ford was a declared anti-Semitic, hated the Jews, disgusted him, and undertaken so much, so much, is such a good example of entrepreneur, that he was the responsible and responsible person, through his company, to manufacture the trucks with which in the Third Reich the Nazis carried the Jews to the gas chambers. An entrepreneur like the crown of a pine tree. Yes, sir! Perfect example. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u27	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will accept this proposal for a law because it considers any progress, any improvement, however modest, in the working conditions of self-employed workers to be of interest. We also subscribe to all the praises, all the tributes that the proposing group pays to the suffering self-employed. The explanatory statement of the text that we value today even speaks, in literal terms, of autonomous heroes. Mr. Rivera has spoken of dignity, justice, dreams. It is good to highlight the effort to overcome the daily difficulties shown by self-employed workers, but, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that most of these workers will be with me if I assure them that the self-employed in our country need less soap and more solution to their many problems. We must also tell you that the high expectations placed on this law in successive press conferences, in speeches and even in the superlative rhetoric of its introduction do not correspond well with the literality of the text that we are voting on today. The Law on Self-Government, with capital letters, has been discussed and written on the resolution of the fundamental problems, the necessary structural reforms, far-reaching and profound reforms, but it turns out that the Law on Self-Government already exists, dating back to 2007 and promoted it by a socialist government. It is a law with thirty-nine articles and thirty provisions, compared to the only six articles in the text proposed today. And the text that is submitted to the House today does not, as stated in its explanatory statement, deal with necessary structural reforms, no; it is limited to dealing with matters that are of undoubted interest, but which do not raise the fundamental reforms that the self-employed need and demand. It is not an ambitious text, Mr Rivera. In fact, this text does not even reflect the agreements that the Citizens' Party signed at the time with the Socialist Party and the People's Party. We don't know why, maybe the People's Party won't let them, Mr. Rivera. The strategy of the proposer group may now be to pass a slight law of content, speeding up its processing with which to hang a medal; it may be to derive the really important matters, the complex matters, the matters to be paid for, to a subcommittee next Thursday. If so, Mr Rivera, it would be honest to tell the representatives of the self-employed that what is passed in a law is the Official State Gazette and becomes a norm and that which is dealt with and written in the conclusions of a subcommission may or may not be complied with. It would be reasonable to clarify this to those who have put their hopes in this debate. Do we really want a law? Let's make a law, but a law of truth; no soap for the self-employed, but with real solutions; no quick and easy medals for one or the other, but with quiet reforms that improve the conditions of activity of the Spanish self-employed. It may not be so easy or so fast, but it will certainly be more useful. The Socialist Group will be prepared to work on what is necessary in this regard, perhaps so, Mr Rivera, that the autonomous are less sceptical. The proposal for a law that is subject to debate raises in its article 1 literally: 'Modulation of surcharges for out-of-date income...'. This is the first article and we are certainly faced with a practical problem that needs to be solved, but is this modulation of charges really the first response that the autonomous of this country are waiting for from its representatives in the Congress of Deputies, for the first article of this law? Really? The modulation of out-of-time social security charges? We are not talking in this first article, Mr Rivera, about either the lateness or the Second Opportunity Act or the improvement of pensions, which are substantive matters that you have dealt with here; no, we are talking about the modulation of charges. Okay, but you understand that the expectations you have generated yourself are not met with this first article. According to the statement of reasons for the law: In 2015, 665,000 self-employed workers were discharged for 625,000 casualties; 665,000 were released and 625,000 were released for self-employment in 2015. These are the data that show the weakness, vulnerability, the real difficulties of self-employed workers in this country, but, given the magnitude of this problem, we cannot limit ourselves to passing a law with six articles of very limited scope. It's not even remotely enough. You know, like me, where the real problems of self-employed workers are. The problems lie in access to finance, which is the real wall against which hundreds of thousands of small entrepreneurs, self-employed, are repeatedly crashing. Do we dare the ICO to lend money directly to the self-employed under advantageous conditions? Do we dare to use the bank involved to finance the self-employed? The real problems lie in unbearable delay, which comes from public administrations and private companies. Do we really dare to put an end to it with an effective system of infringements and sanctions? None of this is in this law. The real problems are in the Second Opportunity Act, which does not allow the self-employed to recover from the setbacks inherent in their condition. Do we dare to eliminate the five-year legal period in which exonerated debts can be reclaimed? It's not in the law. The problems, of course, lie largely in the pending reforms of the special autonomous system, but go beyond late revenue charges and even beyond temporary flat rates. What happens when the six-month period or the twelve-month period with a reduced rate ends and the self-employed continues to receive very low income? Do we dare to allow the self-employed to contribute according to real income? It was in the Citizens' Agreement with the PSOE, it's in the Citizens' Agreement with the PP, but it's not in this bill. Why? Do we dare to allow self-employed workers to access the same social benefits as self-employed workers without resorting to voluntary contribution models that contradict the principle of universality in social security? Do we dare or remain in the modulation of the surcharges? The problems are in taxation, but they go far beyond deductible expenses in the IRPF. What about self-employed workers with disabilities? Are we going to end the unfair discrimination that distinguishes them from other workers in paying their taxes? Will we finally recognise that the cash VAT formula adopted by the PP in the 2013 Entrepreneurs Act has failed because it is not used by 1% of the self-employed? The problems lie in public administration contracts, which are too broad, too conditioned so that self-employed people can opt for their competitions. Will we dare to reduce them, to fraction them, to simplify them? The problems lie in the collaborative economy, in the special agricultural service, in the part-time self-employed, in the reduction and simplification of real administrative procedures. However, ladies and gentlemen, the six limited articles of this bill do not, by far, develop the necessary structural reforms in self-employment. There are six very limited articles, there are no agreements signed by the Socialist Party with Citizens, such as the fund for the financing of strategic business sectors, the involvement of ICO in the financing of small business projects, nor do there appear much of the Citizens' agreements with the People's Party, the zero contribution for self-employed people with incomes below the minimum wage, the reduced contribution for self-employed people on a part-time basis. These commitments that the Citizens' Group signed with the People's Party do not appear to a great extent. The Socialist Group, however, is going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, because, despite its limited content, despite the failure it reflects in the agreements signed by its own authors, it shows a clear will to improve the conditions of activity of self-employed workers in our country, and the Socialists share that will. Now, the Socialist Group will work to make this law more than just a limited and quick law for someone to wear a medal, we will work to make this law more than just a new pat on the back of the suffering self-employed: how much we love you, how much we admire you and how little we do for you. No, let's work to make this law something more, to make it much more, less soap and more solution. We will work to make this law truly contribute to solving the many problems that afflict workers on their own, seriously and without medals for anyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u29	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to put another stone on a new plant in the autonomous regulatory building in Spain, another new plant that we will have to build among all in order to continue, to persevere, to consolidate the enormous task that the Government has been addressing in this area over the past five years. Ladies and gentlemen, self-employment has an essential value in a modern society. Whether there are people who do not aspire to be waged by another entrepreneur or civil servants and bet to build a project or a business to generate their own job, investing, risking, creating wealth, even job opportunities for others, is undoubtedly a necessity for any dynamic and prosperous society. Therefore, this, which is an area of enormous interest to society, is also an area for the People's Party. Building an open society, a prosperous society, a free society, where everyone can implement his or her personal project, and which further promotes the common good, is one of the structural elements of our political principles and social values. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, even in the midst of the most profound crisis in which we had to navigate because others were not able to identify the storm or take the appropriate measures to mitigate their efforts, even in those circumstances, the reforms in the area of self-government were a conceptual priority for the People's Party, with the conviction that if we helped the Spanish entrepreneurs, we would all help each other. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, a serious and responsible Government has been put to work and in just four years has passed more laws and initiatives in this House for self-employed people than any other government throughout the democratic period: the Supplier Payment Fund, the profound changes in the regulatory framework, the express licence, the Market Unit Guarantee Act, the electronic invoice, the Youth Entrepreneurship Act, the Entrepreneur Support Act, the flat fee of EUR 50, incentives to invest profits, capitalization for unemployment, the compatibility of unemployment, the Self-Employment Promotion Act, the choice of quota in multi-activity, tax reforms related to retention, the choice of the compatibility of retirement with self-employment, bonuses in the reconciliation of personal and professional life, commercial debt, measures in support of family members of self-employed workers, flexibility in access to unemployment benefit, and many more over these years. This has been an enormous work, a precise work, a work consistent with the rest of the economic, labour and social policies of the country that has completely transformed the landscape, the scenario in which autonomous work takes place in Spain. As you all know, if by 2011 more than 570,000 autonomous people had been destroyed in Spain and the streets of our cities were filled with blinds lowered with signs of sale, rent or transfer, today, after these five years, after this profoundly reformist legislature, the picture has completely changed. Every day more citizens resume their projects, raise a blind, rent a place, ask for credit, unload their trucks and fill our streets with activity. Ladies and gentlemen, the climate, the environment, the expectations and the push are returning to our streets, our neighborhoods and our industrial estates. Not in vain, as a counterpoint, today we have more than 130,000 new affiliations of self-employed people to Social Security, a balance sheet from the previous stage that is really positive; a contribution of the economic, social and labour policies of the People's Party, which has no match, which no one else can present. That is why the People's Party remains the most supported force by the Spaniards, because its policies are useful, create well-being, enable the rehabilitation of lost life projects and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we deepen them in our electoral programme and, therefore, also when we had the opportunity to dialogue and negotiate with other political forces support to continue developing what has been part of our DNA for decades, we do not hesitate to integrate them into the agreements as new impulses in the same direction that we have been working on and in which we have always worked. We are therefore very honoured that other political forces also believe that this is the way forward and welcome you, Mr Rivera; welcome to this dynamic, welcome to this commitment, welcome to these results and to these tasks developed. And I hope that other forces that also believe, like us, that our country needs Spaniards who continue to generate opportunities for all and that our work, the work of the Executive and of this Legislature, is to give them support, to accompany them, to give them support, to give them encouragement and new tools. There, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, we have always been found by the self-employed and there we are going to be met by all the groups in this House, before, now and, of course, in the future, as we have done with our commitment to increasing flexibility in the choice of contribution bases, as we have done with the flat rate and its enlargement, as we have done with so much to continue that work. Today we will also call for consideration of this proposal for a law in the security that it is a good foundation to give, with input from all, a new impetus in some matters relevant to the sector and to remain part of our political agenda. It is true that technically and economically there are matizable, improveable issues, such as the balance between contributions and benefits in order to deepen in equitable and just elements - not in vain 86 % of the self-employed contribute by the minimum basis -, the charges not to unfairly harm those who always comply or other economic and social actors or the balance in a system that is much broader than the RETA itself, or Title I itself, which reads'reduce administrative burdens' and has little to do with the articulation. But speed, sometimes improvisation, the withdrawal and modification of some texts is logical and cannot be criticized when dealing with such an initiative for the first time and done in good faith. The fact that the text is a bit faracious, sometimes naive and even unreal is not an excuse not to applaud it. There is good will, Mr Rivera, and that is important for us, because we will have time to improve the text, to improve the content, to incorporate new positive developments, to achieve, in short, the objectives without harming, without affecting, without distorting, without distorting the system as a whole. Because we have an obligation to preserve the balance of a system that is much broader than what we are trying to reform today and has other sectors that, if we are not careful, can be affected, harmed and even discriminated against in comparative terms. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group wants to show its best readiness in this task, with open hands, with dialogue as a tool, listening actively, as so far, to self-employed associations, with experience as a support and, above all, with results as a endorsement. We want to take a keen part in the process, we want to incorporate into the work other political forces by addition and I am sure that with these limbs the result will be positive, it will be one more boost, it will be another tool and one less obstacle to enhance our autonomous work, our entrepreneurship and the new economic path to which Spain is already incorporated. We also ask and thank the positive vote of many of the groups in this House for all of us to participate in these projects that are making our nation more prosperous and dynamic every day. We ask and appreciate the vote of many groups in this House to seize the opportunity to continue to increase productivity and our capacity for growth. We ask and thank, ladies and gentlemen, for the positive vote of many of the groups in this House to continue to improve, together with the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, the climate and, above all, by making the important ecosystem of our Spanish self-employed workers even more favourable. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u31	Thank you very much. - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, REFORMING LAW 9/1968 OF 5 APRIL, ON OFFICIAL SECRETS. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 122/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u32	We then proceed to take into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, reforming Law 9/1968 of 5 April on Official Secrets. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. We bring to the debate of this House for consideration just as we did in the last legislature a proposal to reform the Official Secrets Act, and already from the beginning I give the keys to the reform: to reside in the exclusive competence of the Government the power to classify documents, and second... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u35	... that of setting maximum time limits for the maintenance of secrecy or reservation. This is the relevant thing, just these two things; everything else is accessory and negotiable. Some parliamentary group in the last parliamentary term feared the intentions of our parliamentary group using the rhetorical trick of saying that they did not think that we had partisan, localist, tactical intentions or of competing with populists. No, I can now tell you that we had no intention or intention of competing in populism, let alone under the clothes of citizenship. Another more populous parliamentary group than the previous one stood against this same initiative in the last parliamentary term by marking it as a patch, but without opposing - they said - a joint reform of the law, and pointing out some other inconsistency that, in their opinion, contained the initiative. Now I can also tell them that they confused their finger with the moon and that in the middle of the 21st century we cannot be waiting for graceful calendars for the Government to present us with an initiative to reform the Official Secrets Act. Either the opposition takes the initiative or the government in turn, whatever color it is, will do nothing. And we can add that it is not only that the Government has never taken any initiative in this matter, but that when it has been done from the opposition it has opposed it. This happened in 2007, during the processing of the Historical Memory Act, the opposition tried to declassify thousands of documents and it was not possible. And the same happened during the processing of the Transparency Act in 2013. We also need to remember that in 2010 the Council of Ministers agreed that a broad relationship of subjects could not be public insofar as they concerned diplomatic relations with third countries, but not, as one might think, with the current relations, but that the knowledge of documentation from many centuries ago, of the historical background, of its historical record from the 15th century to the present day is prevented. Nor can we forget that in 2012 the Minister of Defence refused to declassify some 10,000 documents from 1936 to 1968 that ministerial technicians were already ready for declassification. All this puts us on the track, on the key to the issue of this proposal to reform the Official Secrets Act, which is nothing other than, with the current law, the government in office can do whatever it wants with regard to the declassification of documents, and we understand that this cannot go on like this. The current law does not establish any rules for declassification and in this the Government of office is protected in order not to declassify anything and, in the end, since there is no obligation to have no criteria, it falls into desidiy, into an inertia of not declassifying anything, arriving at the pure nonsense already mentioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which does not declassify practically the whole of its historical background and also - to be said - the pure nonsense of declassifying documents relating to UFO sighting a few days ago. It might sound like a sarcasm, but it's not. Maybe because of this same pattern of behavior. In the most advanced countries of our environment, the general criterion is the temporal one, almost any other criterion leads to opacity and arbitrariness. The comparative experience corroborates this when it marks a chronological limit, a time when documents are declassified. Thus, without exhausting spirit, in the developing United States of America the criterion for declassifying information classified as secret, confidential or restricted access is that of automaticity of time limits. Only the declassification of top-secret information, the so-called top-secret information, remains at the disposal of the authority that classified it up to a maximum of twenty years, unless - and I read literally - it poses a serious imminent danger to national security or such information endangers a person's life. I am not going to repeat the cases of the United Kingdom, Germany or Switzerland because we have already seen them in the last legislature, with regard to the chronological criterion. We have been told that the introduction of a chronological criterion to declassify the constitutional regime of matters removed from the principle of publicity. We understand that nothing further from reality, what disarticulates is the opacity of the Spanish Government, whatever color it is, in no way homologable to our environment. That is why we propose the reform of the Official Secrets Act because we consider it to be a law of opacity and because that same opacity has generated great conflicts between the powers of the State, between the judiciary and the executive, and between the legislative and executive branches. The permanence of the current Official Secrets Act also undermines the international instruments signed by Spain on archival and documentation matters, both the recommendation of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe on European archival communication policy and the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Information. Thus, and with this practice, documents as relevant to citizens as those relating to the Civil War of 80 years ago are prevented from being known. Some group reminded us in the debate that we already had that, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the Stasi archives were immediately opened to any citizen who requested it, even if it did not directly affect him. Here we only aspire to the same thing, though eighty years late, and some even seem a lot to them. And it is not, as some say, a matter of patching, but of increasing transparency and increasing democratic health, of solving real problems for citizens who have the right to know after some time the activity of their State and, if it seems to them a patching, they already know what needs to be done, that the Government is submitting a bill. But we believe that we cannot wait any longer for this to happen. Experience has shown us that either we move or nothing moves or a new law with criteria and deadlines is proposed to the Government or de facto documents are declassified for a long time, even centuries, that have passed. And this for despair even of the same historians who sometimes have to resort to the archives of third countries to access documents that shed light on what was going on in Spain at that time they are investigating. We have been doing this since the Transition, since the only reform of the law was in October 1978, incorporating, among other aspects, the lifting of the veil with respect to classified documents, thus enabling their knowledge by the General Courts. Forty years have passed since that reform and fifty years since the adoption of the Official Secrets Act. It is now necessary to address as part of the natural evolutionary process of any regulation its adaptation to the existing social sensitivity regarding the value of transparency, consistent with the democratic principle that underpins and governs our society. This adaptation is based, as we have said, on two main axes: to reside exclusively in the Government, the power to classify and declassify documents and to set deadlines for the maintenance of the classification of those same documents if the Government has not done so before, in order to have a modern, acceptable, guaranteed and compatible law of secrets with the democratic principle of transparency and public access and State security. In short - I am finalizing, Madam President - with the introduction of this proposal for a law it is a question of ending an abusive and widespread practice of the Government, regardless of the turn, of adapting to the times and to our environment, of being consistent with the principle of transparency - that citizens, historians and institutions may learn about what has happened - of solving an improper situation in a state that is said to be democratic, of suppressing, as someone said in this House, the keys to the eternal secret, of preventing disdain, administrative inertia and opacity. In democracy, ladies and gentlemen, we consider that we are only talking about democracy. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u36	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. We are talking about a very unique law, that of official secrets, which, since its promulgation in 1968, nothing less, has had a slight reform in 1978. Having submitted to Congress and the Senate various proposals calling for its amendment, they have all been rejected, the last in the plenary of the Upper House in July last year and another that was accepted in Congress at the end of April, also of the Basque Parliamentary Group, fell with the failed legislature and is the one that is brought back to debate. This initiative aims to establish an automatic declassification period: twenty-five years for secret subjects and ten years for reserved subjects, and to confer exclusively on the Council of Ministers the power to classify secrets, although it should be noted that already in the X Legislature there were agreements in the General Courts in order to declassify certain documents of a historical nature that affect the Ministry of Defence, after in-depth study and review, inventory and selection. Ladies and gentlemen, the legitimacy of official secrecy is formally established in Article 105(b) of the Spanish Constitution and constitutes a governmental prerogative of democratic countries and supranational organizations. Over time, this law has been criticized. Let me recall those made by Don Fernando Álvarez de Miranda, the first president of this Congress in democracy, who died last May, that in 1995, then in his capacity as Ombudsman, assured in his annual report that this Law on Official Secrets could violate fundamental rights contained in our Constitution, since - I quote textually - it does not respect the duty of collaboration with Justice nor allows the submission of the administration's action to the control of the courts. The Ombudsman then recommended that a new drafting of the law take into account the right of citizens to use relevant evidence for their defence without leaving areas of immunity outside the judicial sphere. It seems to us that in the recommendations made by Álvarez de Miranda there are a number of issues on which we can probably foreshadow a broad coincidence and in due course we can also move in that direction. In any case, the Forum believes that this Official Secrets Act is perfect, but its reform requires much legislative commitment because it affects, among other important aspects, important issues relating to State security, including foreign security, relations with other countries and also the privacy and privacy of members of the Armed Forces. Finally, I would like to point out that all legislative reform should be based on a broad consensus. We believe that the consideration will open a delicate door to the submission of amendments to the whole article of the law and not only to the specific aspects mentioned in the text and that, as Mr Legarda Uriarte pointed out, they relate to the presentation of reasons, as well as to different articles. That is why my abstention will finally be the position I take in this consideration. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u38	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, do you remember that television program called Operation Palace? For a couple of hours a lot of people feel, in front of the screens, the impotence of the ignorance of the truth, to the point of believing the fiction elaborated brilliantly in a false documentary about the facts surrounding the 23F. Objective achieved by this programme. Operation Palace denounced the Spanish state's lack of transparency with its citizens and how this lack of knowledge could create information bubbles or conspiracy theories of all kinds. Well, an informed society is a society with memory, because how is what is ignored going to be analyzed? We must write our story with facts, not with fictitious reconstructions of facts. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-eight years after the adoption of the Official Secrets Act under a dictatorial regime, which was retouched in the pre-constitutional period, it is now obvious that a new legal text must be drafted in full conformity with the principles of the social and democratic rule of law. What is now proposed here is to put an end to an anomaly, to a perversion of the law that was done during Francoism, to equate our legislation with that of the European Union, because the countries of our environment do have time limits for State secrets: in the United Kingdom, thirty years, as in Italy, fifty years in France, etc. It is therefore a question of setting limits for the declassification of documents, the end of State secrets, and since Compromís we consider this to be a vital matter for determining the democratic health and transparency of a State. Or is it that Spanish democracy is not mature to fit certain truths of the past? What is more important, to take the secret to the grave or to guarantee the right to information and transparency? It is logical and even necessary to set limits in cases of extreme necessity, when it endangers the security or survival of the State itself, but this can never lead to a complete decline in the essential content of fundamental rights and freedoms, even more so when information no longer poses a danger to the State. Currently the official papers in Spain are secrets for life, are secrets to eternity. When they turn 50 they become historical documents, but there is nothing to tell us that, after that time, with that new label assigned to them, they can be opened to researchers, journalists or citizens in general. We need researchers and historians to have access to documents that are more than thirty-five years old and can thus rebuild important parts of the past, of history. A serious, rigorous and responsible declassification would put an end to conspiracy theories and the disease surrounding this area. We do not want obscurantism to continue in a democratic country, and for this reason, the compromise will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u40	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, allow me to welcome the presence of the Minister of Defence in this debate of consideration. Minister, I'm glad you're here. I believe you have understood that this is a parliamentary term without an absolute majority in which there will be debate and agreements in Parliament will have to be reached. She was also the only government representative present last week in a secret session to discuss the supplication of a Member of my group, Mr Francesc Homs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the proposal for a law of the Basque Nationalist Group in full consistency with the vote that we have already put forward in the previous parliamentary term, in the short term of the term of office, namely in April. A press article of the same day, echoing this proposed law of the Basque Group, says: in Spain the secret is eternal. It's not a poetic phrase, ladies and gentlemen, it's exact. The author of this article says: In Spain the secret is eternal, for the desperation of researchers, who must dive into foreign archives to document the history of Spain. It is a matter of reforming the Official Secrets Act in two dimensions: by setting a maximum time on secret subjects, that the proposed law proposes that it be twenty-five years, and a maximum time for reserved subjects, that the proposed law proposes that it be ten years, both extendable to ten more years. It also sets out who can face the declaration and lifting of the veil of secrets and reserved subjects. In a democratic society and with legislation that has to be brought into line with the current democratic moment of the past 40 years, this can only be done by the Council of Ministers, not as at present, which has the competence of the Board of Chiefs of Staff, which has been emptied of in this respect. We must also decide the limit, which is 30 years in the United Kingdom, between 25 and 50 in the United States and 50 in France. In short, we have to register with the democracies of our environment if this is really a reform-oriented legislature. Despite the amendments that we put forward by different groups and different parties, it could not be possible to reform the Historical Memory Act, which was a very poorly resolved law in many extremes, also in this one, or the Transparency Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of seeking and lifting the historical truth for historians, not for controversy; it is a question of whether 19th-century documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can be known and that some are not supported by saying that this would affect diplomatic relations. The United States, France, England and the United Kingdom have had no problems with the declassification of documents after a period of time. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard some arguments that may be reproduced by other speakers. This is a very sensitive issue to be raised by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, be it the Government or a parliamentary group - because all parliamentary groups have the capacity to take initiative - amendments could be tabled on the whole law. An agreement on the object and motivation of this law must be sought and taken into consideration. The Democratic Party will vote in favour. In April, there were 219 votes in favour and 111 against. I call for the consistency of those who voted in favour in April because, Madam President - and with this I conclude - it seems that the Government is prepared to declassify 1,900 pages of UFO sighting reports. Ladies and gentlemen, one day we will be able to reflect on whether UFOs exist or not; what has existed for over forty-sixties have been historical documents hidden in ministries and in government archives. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u42	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about transparency with a frank and clearly opaque law in our legislation, the Official Secrets Act. Exceeding the legislation of Francoism, but rather that of the 1978 regime itself, means letting go and being able to face the new realities of a society fortunately very different from the society of the seventy-eight, but also means closing the long transitional period which, for the time being, is prolonging itself as much as the Franco regime itself. But we seem unable to move forward. The Constitution, without a thorough reform in thirty-eight years, continues to articulate the same 1978 text and its interpretation often continues to smell of naphthaline. And how is this not to be done, if it was signed at gunpoint, thus guaranteeing the continuity of some precepts of the Franco regime, such as the Official Secrets Act itself! A law of 1968 emanating from the legislative corpus of the former Franco regime - I insist, we are talking about a law of 1968 - partially amended on 7 October 1978 at a pre-constitutional stage for the lifting of the veil of classified matters and to enable knowledge by the Courts. Therefore, the modification was ephemeral. It is one of so many laws that the 1978 regime adopted of Francoism and that, as has been seen in these thirty-eight years, has been unable to modify and update. And it's not that there hasn't been any opportunities. In fact, on some occasions even attempts have been made to make it more regressive. Aznar, in 1996, tried to set a maximum time for the declassification of reserved documentation of fifty years, but failed to do so. With the adoption of the 2013 Law on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance, the People's Government had the opportunity to face the review of official secrets, where no doubt some additional provision would have to have changed, but neither did it. And with the Historical Memory Act it was the government of the PSOE that was unable to face the declassification of documents, although the Minister of Defense, Carme Chacón, made a commitment at the time to do so with ten thousand. But it wasn't done either. From Esquerra Republicana we tried it during the processing of the Historical Memory Law and we didn't get it. We had called for the archival policy of the State to be approved by the rest of the States and we failed to do so. It is true that, in the end, the Historical Memory Act, a law that Republicans do not validate and do not vote in favour, intended to make available to citizens all declassified documentation, but its declassification depended on the competence of the Council of Ministers. Since 1968 we have been in this way forty-eight years with this law, with the same Francoist law that governs the official secrets of the State from the most absolute opacity, to the old custom, to the same custom that, for example, our group and Bildu have been forbidden to be part of the Commission of Official Secrets. It is a law that still retains some of the principles of the regime. For example, it has the capacity to declare between a reserved or secret matter, which depends not only on the Government, but also on the Board of Chiefs of Staff, a body that, as has been mentioned, is now non-existent. It is clear that this law is an anachronism of the past, and more so today, in the face of the demands of greater transparency made by citizens and international bodies. In this regard, the reform of this law should go hand in hand with other recent reform proposals, such as the Transparency Act, which has taken a step forward, or the recent establishment of the Commission on Democratic Quality, Anti-Corruption and Institutional and Legal Reforms. Therefore, today we have a new opportunity to change that forty - year - old anachronism. That is why we are voting in favour of the parliamentary initiative put forward by the Basque Group. In conclusion, recent references have been made to the fact that the dissemination of certain information could harm diplomatic relations and harm third parties. First of all, transparency is always ahead of us. We suppose that in Catalonia we will have to expect another long period, the time interval perhaps of a new regime, to know details of the Catalan operation, which today must generate a multitude of classified documentation in the archives of the Ministry of the Interior and the CNI. By then such documentation will only have the historical value for us, but it will allow us to explain to our Republican grandchildren what was the supposed position of the Spanish State in our independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u44	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Legarda, you bring us this bill again. We do not want to trust you; we are absolutely convinced and believe you if you tell us that this is not an opportunistic criterion, it is not a political criterion, it is not a populist criterion, of course it is. But let me not understand one thing. We do not understand how the Basque Parliamentary Group in its first proposal for a law, with the scarce quota it has - and believe me that we as a small parliamentary group who are appreciative of the few quotas we have to do this kind of thing - come to us with a proposal for a law in this sense when we are tired of discussing here non-law proposals on the Basque industry, about changes we have to make urgently to finance issues of the Bilbao ria, etc. However, all of a sudden, in the only bill that you have in this leg of Parliament, you present this to us again, because it is a repetition of what you told us in the previous Legislature. Look, Mr. Legarda, we know that the 1968 law is a pre-constitutional law. What is more, we just have to see what it says textually: an important political control game that in this matter is recognized to the General Courts and the National Council of the Movement. See if it's pre-constitutional and if we want to change it. I understand that there is no Democrat in this House who does not want to change this; I am absolutely convinced. Moreover, he speaks of the General Staff Board, which no longer exists, a more favourable criterion for changing it. However, of fourteen articles that you have this law you propose the partial modification of three and only one transitional provision. It seems to us that that is not enough, Mr. Legarda. This law of what goes on is of a basic thing that is the right to information; the right to information that all Spanish citizens have; the right to information that the Constitution recognizes. Moreover, not only the Spanish Constitution but the Universal Declaration of Human Rights also recognizes that right to information for all citizens. In our Constitution, the right to information is limited by only two articles: by article 20.4, which speaks of honour and protection for children and young people, and by 105(b), which speaks of State security and defence, precisely. Mr Legarda, almost fifty years later it seems obvious to us that we need a new project and a new legal pact in line with the principles of the social state to reform this law. Now, what we want is not a patch; because, even if you don't want it, this is a patch. What we want is a bill. And we would have liked the Government to have submitted a bill for the full reform of the law. In this regard, we have been working this week, and we regret that in the end the Socialist Party, after having closed with the Government the possibility that the Government today would commit itself to submitting within six months a comprehensive bill that would completely change this law, has decided to decline this offer from the Government, the support group and the Citizens' Group, which we have also worked hard to achieve, only in order to be able to vote in favour of amending three articles of the Official Secrets Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it is understandable to set limits because of the security and defence of the nation. Besides, at the end of the day, this is insurance for everyone. However, this cannot mean a loss of the rights and freedoms of all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one body competent at the moment to classify one subject - in the current law there are two, but as one is already extinct, there is obviously only one - and we believe that this should be the Council of Ministers. And there must also be a declassification criterion that is automatic and for the mere course of time. This also seems reasonable to us. However, we understand that your proposal for a law, Mr Legarda, gentlemen of the Basque Parliamentary Group, lacks other initiatives, such as the work of the Ombudsman, as high commissioner of the General Courts, to see how you can access classified information in charge of your representation of all Spaniards, or how experts, historians or scientists can make use of the information when the information is close to being declassified and not wait until the final declassification. These are just examples of things that a whole new bill could bring to the House and bring to everyone's benefit. That is why, Mr Legarda, we are going to abstain. We want to change this law, but we don't want to be architects of putting a patch in this law. And just as the Government has committed itself a few hours ago to us and the Socialist Party to introduce within six months a new law on official secrets, we pick up that glove and urge, demand and ask the Government to fulfil that goal, with the commitment made with us this morning to bring in within six months a new law on official secrets. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Del Olmo Ibáñez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-In Communal Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party contains interesting elements for reflection, at least on two fundamental issues in a rule of law. First, the need to articulate political and legal procedures that, while ensuring the security and defence of the State, foster the true transparency of democratic institutions. And, second, this issue demonstrates the existence of a majority feeling, a social concern shared by the recovery of our country's democratic memory. In this regard, our position is clearly in favour of the proposal to amend Law 9/1968 of 5 April on Official Secrets. In essence, we find it indisputable that we need to change for the ethical impulse that accompanies this legislative initiative, an ethical impulse that is attuned to a vision of Parliament that in Uni-Podemos we have as a fundamental axiom of parliamentary activity: to demand that this House be kept informed of the action of the government. A task of control by the Government that requires that the reserved subjects do not become an attribution of the Executive for impunity. That is, that the secret, that the classified as secret subjects, have a limited validity and, therefore, no one can feel biologically immune to the courts. It is a step forward that will allow us to place parliamentary control over the government as a broader debate on the role of this House. That time does not serve as an excuse for oblivion and secrecy is not synonymous with impunity, because secrecy, ladies and gentlemen, can pose a real threat to democracy. Civil liberties cannot be violated by the power, by the Government, without the decisive and decisive intervention of all of you, democratically elected parliamentarians, who must - which we must - guarantee the fundamental rights of all citizens. It would be a humiliation to this House and a disgrace to the democratic institutions themselves by virtue of our immobility here today that the current law itself was protecting actions that contradict our own constitutional order. It would, in fact, be very difficult to explain and impossible to understand that the current law, being the legacy of a fascist regime, continues to be backed by a democratic Parliament. Perhaps it is time to provide us with laws that do not add to the shame and destabilization of the institutions and to move from Francoism to democracy in a definitive and irreversible way. This is brilliantly expressed by Elias Canetti: Much of the prestige enjoyed by dictatorships is due to the fact that they are granted the concentrated force of secrecy, which in democracies is divided and diluted among many. And that among many includes us all, but especially you, who must begin by taking responsibility before this House for all the actions that the State is carrying out. I have started my speech by talking about the need to recover democratic memory, and I want to end it by reminding your ladies and gentlemen of the value of the symbolic for the construction of the memory of a people. Everyone is aware that Manuel Fraga, a minister during the Franco dictatorship and the founding father of the People's Party, was a strong promoter and advocate of the Official Secrets Act of 1968. But that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, should not be a conflict for you. Or is it? Access to information prior to 1931 does not pose any problems, the vast majority is open, available and accessible. From the year 1931 it is where the problems begin. Archives such as that of Simancas, or that of the Headquarters of the Defence Staff, or the General Military Archive of Madrid, continue to accumulate thousands of documents vetoed to the investigation and, more importantly, concealing information from all citizens. Because in those files - don't forget, we don't forget - lives the memory of many of our compatriots. The current Official Secrets Act is exactly the opposite, it is the best expression of a frightened regime of its own people and of what the future can hold for them if their past actions are known. Who's afraid their actions will be known? Usually those who feel guilty, who do not sleep with a calm conscience. Do all Members of this House have a clear conscience? Prove it by supporting the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the memory of our people requires respect and justice. If neither of the two parties that have ruled this country for forty years have had an interest in changing a Francoist law, it would be good if we were explained here today why. We cannot really be a democratic country and a free people until the words truth, justice and reparation of the victims of the dictatorship achieve an overwhelming legislative consensus in this House. For dignity, let us never forget those who in defense of freedom and legality left their lives on the road. Memory is always collective. The history, the truth, that which is written in capital letters, is not starred by the generals, the ministers, the deputies and the deputies of these Courts; history is done by the peoples. Our history is our memory and is the cultural heritage of the people of our country. No one has the right to take away the role of the true protagonists of history and decide what the people should or may know. Our people remember and have the right to recognize the collective memory of those who have been secret victims, silenced, ignored and forgotten by their own democratic institutions. Things are changing, slower than some of us would like and much faster than some of you can assimilate. And, with these winds of change, uncomfortable questions come up that you will now be forced to answer. What are the reasons for national security that the Government does not publish documents classified as official secrets prior to 1968? But, moreover, even today, the recovery of the democratic memory of the victims of the genocide of the Franco dictatorship finds impunity among certain democratically elected political representatives is obscene and repugnant. The memory of a people condemns them to live from their backs to the truth. As Marcos Ana taught us: I speak for speaking things that I have forgotten over the years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u48	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u49	Thank you, Madam President. I rise again to this rostrum, as on 27 April, to reiterate the favourable position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in considering this proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group. As we recalled then, the Socialist Group supported during the 10th Legislature all initiatives aimed at reforming this law and, as today, we will continue to do so in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Law on Official Secrets is not only a pre-constitutional law, as has been said, but it is also an old law, a law - it has been insisted upon - which dates back nothing more and nothing less than 1968 - almost fifty years in force; a law whose preamble - has also been pointed out, for some reason, by the democratic legislator - still evokes the Fundamental Laws and the National Council of the Movement; a law whose regulation, in the era of encryption of information, still refers to safes or cabinets archiving. In short, it is a law of another time. It is true that in 1978 minimal changes allowed their confusion with the constitutional framework currently in force, and it is also true that successive resolutions of the Presidency of this House have enabled access to and parliamentary control of classified information. But it is clear that this law is watering and - worse - it protects a government such as the People's Party from preventing access to thousands of classified documents dating back no more or less - it has already been pointed out - than to the Civil War. The People's Party opposed a similar initiative in the Senate a year and a half ago. The People's Party opposed the reform of this law six months ago - on 27 April - in this very House. We had to listen from this very rostrum to the spokesman of the People's Party to say that it did not seem that the way to deal with this debate was the patchwork - this same term has also been mentioned today - that it was logical to approach the law as a whole, that it was a reform without gates, without back doors. We say that of course a general reform of the law is needed, that of course a new law regulating official secrets is necessary, but the People's Party has prepared for the last five years to present a bill to this House and has not done so, and we fear that it will not do so, because the People's Party government lives more comfortably in opacity than in transparency. The People's Party believes that Law 19/2013 on Transparency has already covered all the advertising requirements that the current society demands of the public authorities, and that is not the case. The Transparency Act, ladies and gentlemen, is a law on minimums of transparency, minimum transparency, with an endless number of matters excluded from public access; a law on transparency that must be amended to allow effective access to information and to give the Transparency Council a true status of independence, and for that reason the Socialist Group also urges the Government to promote its reform, but if it does not do so we commit ourselves to this parliamentary seat to promote the necessary initiatives to force them to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group welcomes and will vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the Basque Group today. We share the opportunity of the debate, we share the spirit that encourages this bill, because it is a commitment reflected in our electoral programme. Moreover, this initiative was included in the agreement for a reformist and progress government that we signed in its day with Citizens; a proposal that curiously did not include Citizens in its investiture pact with the People's Party. Moreover, today Citizens amaze us by changing sides and embracing the People's Party, only six months after supporting exactly this same initiative. Real citizens amaze us with a circus pirouette worthy of better cause. This is a good example of the contagious resistance of the People's Party to increase transparency and control of public authorities. The Socialist Group agrees with the initiative of the Basque Group that it is necessary to reside exclusively in the Government to classify documents, as well as the inescapable desirability of setting appropriate time limits for the maintenance of secrecy. But the will of the Socialist Group goes further: we want a new Law on Official Secrets, a law of general scope that is not limited to the object of the current law, but covers assumptions provided for in other laws; a law that precisely defines categorizable matters. There is a need for a law on official secrets that continues to allow parliamentary access in the terms provided for in parliamentary regulations; a new law that provides for sanctions when they are breached. Ladies and gentlemen, the security and defence of the State requires an updated, rigorous and guaranteed Official Secrets Act, and the weaknesses of the current law are salutary. No one can justify the existence of classified documents almost 80 years ago which could affect the security and defence of the State today, do you not think, Minister of Defence, Mrs De Cospedal? I hope you will take note and act accordingly. We fear that keeping secrecy under this law has too much to do with the non-existence of means and declassification protocols on an ex officio basis. It is therefore essential to introduce expiry periods. The contemporary state admits a modern regulation - as we are illustrated, and it has been pointed out, the comparative law -, compatible with higher levels of transparency and public access to originally classified documentation. The demands inherent in an advanced democratic society make it necessary to reduce to the maximum the opaque spaces removed from public knowledge. Society demands transparency and openness of public authorities. State secrecy as an enabling, expansive rule inherent in the security and defence of the State belongs to other times. All acts of the public authorities, especially those linked to security, deserve justification and motivation. The right must order and regulate the relevance of public decisions, proscribing spaces of concealment immune to control. In a democratic society no public act is exempt from a reasonableness that cannot be justified and motivated. This is why a new Official Secrets Act today must provide a regulatory framework with scrupulous rules that delimit and limit the temporary secrecy of public documents. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Basque Group, we hope that this bill will be taken into consideration by the House today, despite the vote against the Group of the European People's Party or its resigned abstention in order to avoid the resulting defeat. The People's Group, if it does not rectify its position on 26 April, will again remain alone in this House, together with its Citizens, its governing partner, the paradigm of where I said, Diego. The People's Party does not understand that it no longer has an absolute majority to oppose any reasonable initiative, regardless of its motives, arguments or justifications. They no longer have in their power the roller with which to parapet before any initiative of the opposition. We are faced with an extremely reasonable legislative initiative, which without furthering the essence of a rule of law, of a democratic state: more transparency, more rights, more control. The response of the People's Party can no longer be the no for the no. Understand: you no longer have a majority in this House. Get used to the fact that most of them no longer serve them, that they have an opposition in front of them, capable of bending them and forcing them into dialogue and agreement. I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity to go even further than the Basque Group's initiative seeks. A new Official Secrets Act is needed. It is true - we will agree on this for all parliamentary groups - that the initiative of this new law should reside in the Government. I do not know whether the presence of the Minister of Defence today, following this debate, is a good omen, but in any case, if the cynicism of the People's Group leaves no room for a credible government commitment, the parliamentary majority in this House should take a step forward and take up the challenge. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Vázquez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we are discussing the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, which seeks to amend the Official Secrets Act of 1968. Well, in defending this initiative by Mr Legarda and in the speeches made by the speakers before me in the speech, we have heard the reasons that lead them to defend a partial reform of the Official Secrets Act, alluding to its pre-constitutional character or to the transparency requirements of a mature democracy. Now, Mr Rallo, let us rest assured that neither the People's Parliamentary Group is resigned nor does it raise any resistance; on the contrary, we are aware that this is a necessary debate, and we are aware that the Official Secrets Act has aspects that can be improved. Of course, we agree that transparency and citizens' access to information are the foundations of a quality democracy, and they are answers to the legitimate demands that citizens make on public authorities today, but, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Legarda, I think it is also important to point out that we are dealing with an extremely sensitive and also extremely complex matter, and that is why I think it is advisable that we approach it from calm and calm reflection. Look, in matters like this, it is more timely than ever to recall that Tocqueville statement, when it said that the State must be approached with trembling hands like a father's sores. It is clear that transparency is a constitutional value and it is clear that it is a feature of democratic maturity. Certainly this is behind the Law on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance, promoted in 2013 and approved by the General Courts. Much has been said, yes, about comparative law in this debate; you have done so in the defence of the initiative, Mr Xuclà has done so, the spokesmen have done so, and I think it must not be forgotten that also in that debate the U.S. Supreme Court pointed out that, above and beyond the most respectable individual interests, the most justified collective interests, is the superior right of a society and a nation to ensure their own existence. Precisely because one of the great balances of the rule of law appears behind the subject on which we are debating today, I believe that this debate cannot be carried out in a fragmented or hasty way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the People's Parliamentary Group welcomes the fact that a new consensus of the political forces on the regulation of official secrets in Spain can be forged in this House, but what we cannot admit is that it is done through a partial reform of the 1968 Act, limited to certain precepts and which creates serious inconsistencies with the set of legal rules governing this matter. We are committed to a comprehensive and coherent reform of the legal regime for classified information, carried out with due reflection and of course with the necessary input from the various departments and professionals who know the subject. Note, for example, the inconsistency that implies that we place temporary limits on the information classified in the 1968 Act and yet do not do so with those information, also classified, that are not regulated in the 1968 Act, such as those of internal reservation, in its dual form of confidentiality and limited dissemination. But in addition to this general consideration of the proposal for a law that we are discussing, I would like to point out some serious, silent objections to specific aspects of the reform proposed by the Basque Parliamentary Group. Obviously nothing to object to corrections of a terminology nature that appear in the statement of reasons, such as replacing Spanish Courts with General Courts or deleting the reference to the National Council of the Movement. Nor is it more difficult to amend the precept of article 4.1 on the elimination of the Board of Chiefs of Staff, since that body does not exist, as some of the spokespersons have said, since the National Defence Act 2005. However, I do have to express to you insurmountable reparations with regard to the reform proposed in Articles 4.2 and 7, in the sense that the mere course of time, of the maximum period of classification which you propose to set at twenty-five years for subjects classified as secret, with a possible extension of ten years, or ten years for subjects classified as reserved, operates declassification on its own. At this point, Mr Legarda, I believe that your proposal for a law involves a dangerous reductionism, and I believe that your proposal loses its rigour and is led to an unacceptable simplification of a reality that does not accept this treatment. The mere course of time - twenty-five, thirty-five years or whatever - cannot in any case be a reason to declassify information. And here you cannot invoke comparative law, because you know well that those systems to which you have referred always provide exceptions for certain subjects: location of military arsenals, ammunition deposits, intelligence reports. Let me give you some thought and some example that you, Mr Legarda, will understand very well. The Council of Ministers in 1986 approved an agreement, further refined in 1996, granting the classification of secrecy to the structure, organization, means and operational techniques used in the fight against terrorism by the State Security Forces and Bodies, also to their sources and to as much information or data as they might reveal. Would it seem reasonable to you that all this information on the fight against terrorism, including sources, prior to 1991 should now become public information, simply by doing and grace, of the transitional provision that you propose in your text? If our Criminal Code provides that terrorist offences when they cause the death of a person do not prescribe, if there are arrests of terrorists who allegedly committed attacks many years ago, how are we going to convert the main tool with which the State Security Forces and Bodies count into the fight against terrorism, which is information, into public simply through the course of time? I assure you, and I think you understand me well, Mr Legarda, that in this irresponsibility you will not have the People's Parliamentary Group. I could give you other examples. I could tell you, for example, that the Critical Infrastructures Act of 2011 also provides for the classification as a secret - and the Council of Ministers does so in coherence - of the whole subject related to the critical infrastructure catalogue. Well, those critical infrastructures that we define as strategic infrastructures whose operation is indispensable, and which do not allow for alternative solutions, so that their disruption or destruction would have a great impact on essential services, cannot simply be declassified over time. Obviously most of these critical infrastructures, if not all of them, are called to a long life, much more than twenty-five or thirty-five years. Would it make sense to make the catalogue of critical infrastructures public and thereby reveal possible vulnerabilities simply through the course of time? Allow me to say to you with all due respect that this proposal is not very rigorous, as well as extremely dangerous. Nor do I understand, Mr Legarda, how an amendment to Article 7 is envisaged in relation to Article 10 in order to ultimately eliminate the identification of the matter as a secret or as a reserved subject, in accordance with an absolutely widespread practice in the different systems in which it is precisely a question of protecting that information, I simply do not understand what is gained by such a reform. Another aspect in which we cannot share the proposal for a law of its parliamentary group is that relating to the reform of article 7, precisely by implicitly recognizing the Congress of Deputies and the Senate's power to declassify information that has previously been classified as a secret reserved by the Council of Ministers. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in a parliamentary system, unlike what would happen in an assembly government, balance points must be sought which are sometimes complex, which in this area are undoubtedly complex, between the government and its powers and the control function which Parliament has. In this delicate balance, it is precisely the requirement, so far provided for in the law, that access by the General Courts to classified information should always be in secret session. I believe that it is irresponsible to eliminate that requirement, which is equivalent in practice to allowing the Congress of Deputies and the Senate to declassify matters previously classified by the Council of Ministers. Access yes in any case; declassify no. That is, in the view of my group, the necessary balance. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group agrees with the desirability of achieving, of seeking a broad parliamentary consensus on the regulation of classified information, but in this matter we have the inexcusable premise that this consensus is sought with rigour and quality, thus addressing a comprehensive and coherent reform, not a partial reform, not a patchwork, as you yourself said, of the 1968 Act. In the text defended by the spokesman of the Basque Parliamentary Group we simply find good intention, but we find neither the rigour nor the quality that requires a subject like the one we are dealing with. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u53	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the commemoration of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Mr Tremiño Gómez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, people with disabilities must always be a priority of all governments, including our own, and must be a priority of each and every citizen's representative in this House today. You know that there are more than 4 million people with disabilities in Spain and that according to the World Health Organization, 15% of the world's population has some disability. That is why in 1992 the United Nations proclaimed 3 December as the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The United Nations General Assembly called upon all member States to highlight the celebration of this day, and in some way to promote greater inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group wanted to bring this GNP to the House's plenary this afternoon because this year is also the tenth anniversary of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which, as you know, was adopted in December 2006 at United Nations Headquarters in New Cork, and ratified by Spain in November 2007, and published in our Official State Gazette on 21 April 2008. From the time of publication the Convention is part of our system, as provided for in article 96 of our Constitution, which states that valid international treaties, once officially published in Spain, will form part of the domestic system. Ladies and gentlemen, the first great contribution of the Convention in my view is to have changed the way in which the concept of disability is dealt with. The Convention is based on a social model in which disability does not reside in the person, but rather in the environment that does not allow him to develop his potential. If I may give a clear example, if I could go up to this stage where you are addressing the other Members would not see my disability, it would go unnoticed. Since I can't get up and I have to talk from here, my disability is more visible and it doesn't go unnoticed. What does this mean? It means that disability is not in my person, but in the environment that is not fully accessible and makes my disability appear. [[Applauds]] The Convention is undoubtedly the great text on human rights of the twenty-first century. I really believe that the most important thing of the Convention is to have placed everything relating to disability in the field of human rights. The three powers of the State are aware of this, and that is why the judiciary itself, aware of the barriers that many people encounter for access to justice, created in December 2003 within the General Council of the Judiciary, the Justice and Disability Forum for the basic and important purpose of coordinating the legal institutions of the State in order to truly achieve greater and more effective protection of the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities. In addition, all governments, all of them, ladies and gentlemen, have provided important legislation for disability: from the Lismi of 1982 to the current General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted on 29 November, like today, three years ago, or also the Third Sector Law, which saw the light also a year ago, adopted with the consensus of all the groups in this House and which fulfilled the purposes and demands of the sector, and which you know has been the first in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, to protect and give legal certainty to our entities in the third sector of social action working daily with the most vulnerable people, including persons with disabilities. All Governments have promoted employment measures for persons with disabilities, such as extending the compatibility between non-contributory pension and work, or extending the reserve of jobs to selective processes that were not envisaged until then, such as specialized health training, the reserve in judges or prosecutors, or the actual convening of places for persons with intellectual disabilities. Also the obligation by law, ladies and gentlemen, to reserve a minimum of public contracts in favour of special employment centres, or the prohibition for the Administration to hire companies that do not meet the reserve percentage for persons with disabilities. All of these measures have made it possible for the recruitment of persons with disabilities to grow steadily, between 18% and 19% annually over the past four years; however, although it serves as an aggravation, it does not reassure us. We are still far from the full employment inclusion of persons with disabilities. 75% of people with disabilities still do not work today. In inclusive education we have also made progress year after year, and as a merit of all governments, admission procedures in university education have been changed, with 5% reserved for persons with disabilities. The regulation of academic practices has been changed, giving priority - yes, gentlemen, priority - to students with disabilities in the choice of companies to ensure full accessibility and that they can carry out their practices. Aid for mobility of students with disabilities has been increased under the Erasmus+ programme. It has been guaranteed by law that abandoned balances and deposits are intended for educational improvements for persons with disabilities. Also by law have increased the social funds of the IRPF with so-called abintestates, that is, those inheritances received by the State of the deceased without will or heirs. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to all this progress, we have managed to change the way we deal with disability among all people with disabilities, society in general and political groups, and we have evolved from a vision of paternalism towards people with disabilities, which was always necessary to protect to a greater or lesser extent, a system of empowerment of individuals. In other words, while the traditional system was a model for replacing decision-making, we are now, ladies and gentlemen, moving towards a model that is based on the intrinsic dignity of the person through support in decision-making. This means that no one decides for us, no one decides for people with disabilities; with the necessary support, but deciding ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies itself created the Commission for Comprehensive Disability Policies, but today we have the opportunity to show the support of this House for disability, for people with disabilities. I would like to express my sincere thanks for the contributions of all the groups through the various amendments, but in particular I would like to mean the interest that all those responsible for disability in all the parliamentary groups - I repeat, all the parliamentary groups - and in all the political parties in the Joint Group have put in arriving at a single document, which I am sure we will support and sign throughout this afternoon, with the confidence that we will achieve this. Don't look at me as a political adversary, ladies and gentlemen. I speak in the name of disability. It is requested by a person with disabilities who, with his mistakes and small advances, has been working for more than twenty-five years on the rights of persons with disabilities. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u55	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Alli Martínez is speaking first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to make three thoughts on disability, ladies and gentlemen. The day we understand that people with disabilities are people in the first place, and then their condition comes, we will make a great deal of progress as a Spanish society in favour of people with disabilities. Second thought. All public policies must be aimed at achieving three things for persons with disabilities. First of all, they develop as people. Secondly, that they are autonomous, that is, that they can at least make a decision at the end of the day about their own life. And thirdly, have an inclusive life. Ladies and gentlemen, everything else is pure chatter. This Congress of Deputies in this legislature has a magnificent opportunity, which is to convert the Commission for the Integral Policies of Disability not only into permanent, but also to have legislative rank. I encourage you to consider the initiative that UPN has already registered last August for all political forces to really do things for disability. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by giving a few seconds of speaking time to a member of the executive of the Navarro People's Union who died yesterday, Mr Julián Isla, President of the Community of Bardenas. He was a great fighter for the Ribera de Navarra, a great fighter for Navarra and, therefore, for Spain. From here I send all our support to the family of Don Julián Isla, because a great fighter has died. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u57	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u58	Thank you, Madam President. We are grateful for this initiative, which Mr Tremiño has defended today, not from the seat, not from the rostrum, but from the centre of the House, and we are sure that we have not yet resolved the accessibility problem of our House despite the fact that it has already passed a few legislatures that some of our colleagues are people with disabilities. We logically appreciate Mr Tremiño's positive attitude in trying to reach an agreement and the compromise announced will count on the positive vote of the MPs and MPs of the Catalan Democratic Party. When we deal with this matter - even more so when Mr Tremiño gives that symbolic burden to the debate and vote this afternoon - we inevitably have in memory Don Ramón Trias Fargas, who was the deputy of the then Catalan Minority Parliamentary Group who promoted the Law on Social Integration of the Disabled in the early 1980s, in the early years of democracy. Ramón Trias Fargas was the father of a child with disabilities and, when we reread his speeches of 1980, 1981 and 1982, we see that the fundamental ideas of the Lysmi still unfortunately remain pending in terms of employment, inclusive school and full accessibility. What was proposed by the creators of the Lysmi in 1981 has not been fully assumed. Therefore, we have great challenges. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the United Nations Convention raises new demands and paradigms that will require a change in the mentality of legislators, judges and society as a whole, from a paternalistic vision to a vision that empowers people with disabilities, that moves away from any hint of compassion or piety towards them and that is capable of empowering them. It is a huge challenge in terms of the system of incapacity, the right to vote and sterilization. Ladies and gentlemen, the House will have to do a great deal of work there in this legislature. In any case, count on us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u59	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas GonzálezMoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Today I have to confess that I am sold to a lobby: my brother Joseph, my sister-in-law and my niece Patricia, disabled, and that I will be sold to them throughout this legislature. I repeat the last thing Mr Campuzano said about empowerment, about having an inclusive society that we still don't have. Today it is a tribute, but we have the Unity Law, which is the most beautiful law along with that of homosexual unions that I have been able to enjoy at my stage as a Member of Parliament and which we have adopted among all the parties. But it doesn't come true. Contributions are not being made. One thing is rights or work, but above all today I want to pay tribute to my friend Carmen, who is seventy-nine years old and a child with cerebral palsy. She doesn't have anyone in her family and has twice delayed an operation because she doesn't want to leave the boy, but we've had to convince her that if she doesn't operate, she'll definitely leave the boy. We need to reflect on which society we are going to and, above all, whether we want a society of all, of men, women, children, disabled people, etc., and what education, what job opportunities we want. We just received all the spokespersons for a seventeen-year-old boy who has come from Catalonia - I finish, Madam President - and said: 'I am disabled. As much as he has two careers, three languages and a master's degree, who do you think he's gonna take over the company when he goes to an interview? Do I have a chance in this society? And that's what I tell my mother, who tells me to study, to prepare myself.' Do we have that society ready? Are we forcing that society to empower and give equal opportunity? Is it the Europe and Spain of the 21st century that we want? I, of course, will continue to work for that lobby. I'm absolutely sold on Saturdays, Sundays, at my mother's house and at my house with my niece Patricia. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u61	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u62	President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the non-legislative proposal presented today by the People's Group, which we hope will be negotiated by all groups, should have been an institutional declaration. In any case, it comes to put on the table how much more remains to be done in the area of disability. [[The Lord]] The United Nations Convention on the Law of Persons with Disabilities, published in the State Gazette together with an additional protocol on 21 and 22 April 2008, entered into force in May 2008. It is a legal text incorporated into the Spanish legal system, logically applicable, and forms part of the fundamental rights system of the human rights system. The most important aspect of the Convention is that it enshrines a change in the perspective of the interpretation of human rights and, consequently, of fundamental rights. These should be interpreted from the perspective of disability; article 1 of the Convention provides that the purpose of the Convention is to promote, protect, ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities and to promote respect for their inherent dignity. As the President of Cermi told us the other day, Mr Cayo, the Convention is the first fundamental rights treaty of the twenty-first century and means an in-depth review of fundamental rights. Therefore, its entry into force meant and means a change in the way disability is understood. We all know, no one escapes that serious situations of discrimination are being maintained at this time - today we saw it at the beginning of the defense of this non-law proposition -. The cuts made as a result of the crisis also abound in this discrimination, which affected fully the deployment of active disability policies. Discrimination occurs in situations that affect both physical and communicative disability. There is a lack of simple, rapid and effective mechanisms to restore rights that have been violated. There are policies, political actions, programmes and practices that still segregate, especially with regard to the right to education. We are far from full inclusion. In the workplace, the greatest discrimination occurs in access to an occupation itself and, if it is achieved, it reproduces in the workplace, in the training carried out by companies, and so on, up to a long period of time. Non-compliance with the Lismi affects all companies, both public and private. In electoral matters as well. We have long been calling for a change to enable persons with disabilities to participate in electoral processes. Women with disabilities suffer double discrimination. Important limitations remain on the decision-making capacity of persons with disabilities, thereby violating one of the most important fundamental rights, the ability to decide on everything, in all areas of life. Consequently, we are far, far from where we should be. Our amendments therefore seek to remove the obstacles to the full implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to respect Catalonia's own competences, and to abound in the need to ensure the economic contributions that the State must make in order to be able to implement disability policies. Disability is not alien to us, it is part of our lives, of all of us and of all of us. There are no disabilities, there are various capacities. For these reasons we will vote in favour of this non-law proposal, which we hope will be negotiated. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I would like to start my speech with an appointment: If you are not part of the solution, you are part of the problem. Act. I would also like to add that if you're not either of the two things, then you're part of the landscape. In view of the initiative brought to us this afternoon by the People's Group, although in line with its philosophy, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment of amendment and not only of technical improvement. We consider this GNP presented as an unambitious parliamentary initiative, with no real burden of concrete initiatives, with no practical solutions. And without solutions, remembering my initial quote, you become inexorably part of the problem, problems like in the pre-past legislature, where cuts in very important social policies occurred, among others, for example, the cut in more than 2 billion euros to aid to dependency, to name but one example. When we have spoken of a lack of ambition, concreteness or solutions to this non-legislative proposal, I set as an example the paragraph in which - I quote literally - we urge 'to promote awareness of the support that persons with disabilities need from all aspects and sectors of political, social, economic and cultural life'. Who wouldn't agree with this initiative, ladies and gentlemen? Obviously, no one. But it's not enough to promote awareness. In Citizens we want to be part of the solution and not of the problem, never part of the landscape. That is why we amend this GNP by amending the text, and we take this opportunity to remind the People's Group that, as reflected in our agreement of 150 demands to improve Spain, in paragraph 76 of the same call for the adoption of the necessary implementations to promote and develop a general law on the rights of persons with disabilities and their social inclusion, adapting and updating the necessary legal order to the principles of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations. The Group of the European People's Party is once again short and lacking in ambition with regard to the results pursued, which, after all, are the ones that count, ladies and gentlemen. When in its last paragraph it talks - I repeat quotes - of 'improving coordination between the State and the Autonomous Communities in order to reduce the exclusion factors of persons with disabilities', it is not only necessary to improve such coordination between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities, which is. It is necessary to provide them with financial resources, at least as those existing before 2012. Since that fateful year, the Government had fulmined resources devoted to the national system of dependency. Even though they are required by law to co-finance it at 50%, for example, in my community, Andalusia, over the past four years, EUR 508 million has been stopped. It is clear that such coordination must be provided with resources and investment in a sustainable manner. The excuse for the crisis is no longer valid for us. As long as you continue to bet on more cuts in social justice, without optimizing public spending, for inefficiency or duplicity of administrations, if you do not dare to puncture the political bubble, if you do not show a firm and determined attitude against tax fraud, without amnesty to the tax amnesty, if you do not advance in recovering those economic resources so necessary for social policies such as these, you will remain part of the problem and not of the solution. Not only is it obvious, but it is imperative and urgent to promote a state pact for social services, dialogue and consensus with collaboration and, apart from civil society, with associations of the world of disability, with experts from the third sector, always from the perspective of positivism, seeing it as an opportunity and not as a problem but, above all, consensus with the autonomous communities; consensus in the Territorial Council of Social Services and dependence in order to achieve agile, common and sustainable management, improving its financing in the area of a new model of autonomous financing, ensuring that these resources are sufficient, equitable and of quality. Here, ladies and gentlemen, by the way, I remind you that it appears in paragraph 57 of our agreement of 150 demands. I would also like to remind you that in point 76 of that agreement we are talking about prioritising accessibility, especially with regard to public services and facilitating the exercise of the right to vote. We in this legislature, as we do not like to be part of the landscape, have already made such an option as, for example, a joint initiative in the Madrid Assembly and here in Congress a PNL to ensure the universal accessibility of rail transport in Spain. Finally, I would like - and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity offered to me from this rostrum - to send a message of hope to the more than four million citizens who suffer permanently or temporarily, congenitally or in the event of some kind of functional diversity, reduced mobility or special cognitive abilities. I want to say to you that you are not alone, that we do not forget them, that we work for their full social inclusion in all areas of life, on equal opportunities, on equal real and effective rights. And that we not only work for and for them, but also for their close family environment, which encompasses almost 12 million people. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Clemente. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Alba Goveli has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u66	Eskerrik asko, Mr. President. I am pleased that you can count on our support for this proposal if the compromise is finally reached, but I wondered whether the Members of the People's Party know the term tokenism. The word probably doesn't ring a bell, but I think the technique that describes it does dominate it. Tokenism comes from the word token, in English, and is the practice of making a superficial gesture for the inclusion of a minority. In other words, small concessions are made to a minority group - that is, they are always public for everyone to know - which cause that group to no longer be able to accuse of lack of support for it when in reality and in practice nothing has been done. And I say that I am sure that they dominate this practice because it is precisely the risk that we run with initiatives such as the one we are debating today. I am not going to say that I am not happy that the nearly four million people with functional diversity and their rights have a space in today's plenary. Of course I'm glad, D-days are useful and necessary to highlight realities... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u67	Mrs. Goveli, please, just a moment. I would ask you, please, to remain silent so that you can listen to the speaker. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u68	He said D-days are useful and necessary to highlight realities that remain hidden in the eyes of public opinion and society, to open up debate, to work on solutions, but they also carry the risk that that day will cover the file and the remaining three hundred and sixty-four will cease to exist. I said that I was glad that we had the opportunity to address this issue at today's sitting, but I am a little saddened that now that we have it we are going to discuss a GNP that I would dare to describe as a little hollow. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot say that I do not agree and do not share the content of it, because of course I do, but I am afraid that it is a mere process, a small symbolic gesture that says: do not worry, we do not forget your demands, but that it remains there because it does not translate into concrete measures that will improve the daily lives of people with functional diversity and their families, as is the case in many cases with D-days. This is the concern we feel when we read the initiative and it is not only founded by the lack of concrete content in the proposal, which only sets out intentions, but is supported by the fact that it comes from the hand of the government party. Because you say that you are willing to bet on the full inclusion of persons with disabilities in all areas of society, but it is said by a party that in the previous legislature did not make any effort to comply, for example, with the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, which set out assumptions and deadlines for the enforceability of the basic conditions of accessibility, which have not been complied with or will be complied with because it no longer gives us time. In 2017 we will not comply with universal accessibility because of the cowardice of the People's Party and without it people with disabilities will never be citizens of full right. Furthermore, let us not forget that improving the quality of life of people with disabilities is an improvement for all citizens as a whole, especially when anyone can suffer some kind of disability throughout our lives. Without accessibility, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for social inclusion in every sense and its party, despite its declaration of good intentions, has systematically opted for policies that walk precisely in the opposite direction: an education law such as Lomce, which segregates and excludes those who are different; employment policies that, according to the latest surveys, leave out 76% of people with disabilities; policies of cuts and austerity that affect particularly the most vulnerable groups. We were talking about energy poverty the other day, and it is precisely that of people with disabilities that is one of the most affected groups. There is also an absolute lack of will to carry out policies that truly combat macho violence, which further affects women with disabilities. 16.8%, according to CIS data, have suffered physical violence from their partner, not to mention other types of violence or violence outside the partner's sphere. And I could keep setting examples all afternoon. In your initiative you also mention the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and if, as you say, you defend the implementation of the rights contained therein, then we begin to legislate for their full implementation. For that, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough with will because you well know that if good intentions are not accompanied by economic resources, they become wet paper. That is why we are proposing the creation of a State fund for universal accessibility, a fund that would feed on 1% of the State's General Budgets, allocated annually to investments in public works, infrastructure, new technologies and the information society. With this we could finance universal accessibility programmes and actions, with the objective that all people with functional diversity, in a situation of dependence or with communicative or cognitive limitations of any kind can be independent, that is, citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a group that suffers from serious situations of vulnerability and this House should not tolerate it, it is our duty to combat it. With the rights of nearly four million people we cannot play, we must shield them. Thank you for your good will, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, thank you to Mr Tremiño for wanting to incorporate as many amendments as possible, but I would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to stop tokenism and to legislate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u69	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ruiz i Carbonell has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. After reading this initiative, I wondered whether the People's Group believed that we were like Alicia in Wonderland or that some have lost their ability to blush. I recommend that you read this supposed non-law proposal, instead of people with disabilities, many of whom are watching or listening to us today or will have news of it through the media. In my case, when I found what I was trying to do, it surprised me because it does not urge the Government to do anything, it urges us, who are here, to express our willingness to support persons with disabilities, to safeguard their rights and to ensure greater coordination between administrations. I wondered what they meant by those who had written it. Do you doubt that we who are here share what they ask for? Can a Member not have the will to safeguard the rights of persons with disabilities? I don't think so. He's in charge of defending them. Socialists believe that no group in Congress is willing to allow millions of people with disabilities to live among us, without taking steps to stop having severe deficits in citizenship, inclusion, well-being and access to basic rights. So I had to ask myself another question: After five years of PP government, with numerous cuts that have affected, in some cases we could say cruelly, the weakest sectors of our society, being one of the countries in the euro area that has cut most in disability, and after almost a year with the almost hibernated Congress of Deputies do you think you can bring this initiative? It's hard for me to believe. Just reviewing the 'Diary of Sessions' at last Tuesday's meeting of the Disability Policy Committee, you will find ideas. Or is it that, in your opinion, people with disabilities cannot vote in elections not important? Or to avoid that if they live in small populations they are twice as discriminated against, one because of their disability, the other because of the lack of services and professionals? Doesn't that matter either? Or should the State Pact against Gender Violence, which we agreed here a few days ago, pay particular attention to eradicating the gender-based violence suffered by women with disabilities, nor can we ask? Or that the Government develop a timetable for progress in inclusive education? Neither is that? Or does it not seem important to reduce that 70% of the housing stock that is not yet accessible in Spain? It could also have made sense that in this mandate, its first GNP on disability would have urged the Government to take steps to increase the employment rate of persons with disabilities, which is 40 points lower than the rest of the population, an issue that I am convinced the People's Group is not indifferent to. Or urge the Government to make an effort to untie the Personal Autonomy Act. Or to consider why the number of traffic accidents has increased in recent years, which, as you know, is one of the causes of an increase in persons with disabilities. You know that it has been speculated on whether one of them is the lack of road maintenance. And who would not agree, and more so now in the middle of the winter, if they asked us for support by urging the government to take steps to avoid what a Cermi study indicates that a receipt of light from a person with disabilities can be between 25 and 40% above the average? Or we could ask the Government to study how we are in universal accessibility. By law, from 2003 to 2017 we had to make streets, squares, all kinds of pre-existing public and private facilities and services accessible. They won't tell me they've forgotten. Telling them that we're going to be aware of helping them on the occasion of the international day, doesn't it seem disrespectful to them? Should we do it by the representatives of a country that received the Roosevelt Prize? By the way, a subject that we will not discuss any more: some of us worked and others went to collect the prize; that is, to half. [[Applauds]] I also wondered whether you could be a Member or a Member and do not have the creativity, the opportunities, the wealth of all kinds that people with disabilities can generate. I don't think so. So he finally asked me another question: wouldn't I be faced with an initiative in favour of people with disabilities to take advantage of the fact that we are three days away from international day and at the same time get out of the way that it was up to them to present a GNP today, without compromising the government at all, to spend money, without disturbing it? I ruled it out, of course. How can I think that might be the reason to present an initiative aimed at those who are addressed! We would like to reach an agreement as broadly as possible, because we want to agree on everything that has to do with disability, Mr Tremiño. That is why we have tabled an amendment, in order to reach a compromise that makes it possible and to be able to vote together in favour and give some content to the initiative. First, by changing who he is addressing, to the government. Our amendment consists of two points. One - I have heard another group propose - to send people with disabilities the message that we are serious about universal accessibility, creating a fund similar to that known as 1% cultural. You are right, Mr Tremiño, it is the environment that marks disability to a large extent. My friend Carles Balaña said the other day on Facebook: What keeps me from being free are the barriers. And a second point aimed at increasing the possibility of having the best integration tool, a decent job, with a new legal framework, with measures to support special employment centres, with resources for active policies and ensuring the reservation of jobs in the public and private sectors. Your spokesman, Mr Tremiño, has shown that he has more than will, but if you are looking for more than filling out your times and headlines in the press tomorrow, accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u71	Mr. Ruiz, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u72	They demonstrate that they want to improve the quality of life and advance the rights of persons with disabilities. It's about talking to the compromise. Thank you for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u73	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u74	I will intervene from the seat as I will be quite brief. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Tremiño because I believe that his speech has been tremendously timely, not from the rostrum, from the seat or from the place he has been told, but from the heart, which is even more to be thanked. This non-law proposal reminds us that on 3 December we will celebrate International Day of Persons with Disabilities, as a result of an international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities dated 16 December 2006. It should be recalled that that convention had as its object a fundamental issue to which I do not know whether reference has been made, which is to make disability situations visible as a fundamental right, as a human right. This is a fundamental issue. The next point I would also like to point out is that, moreover, and therefore, whatever this requirement arises from its status as a fundamental right, the fact that there is an international day for persons with disabilities reminds us that at present not only do they still exist but that it is necessary to act in the face of all those physical or moral obstacles that prevent equal opportunities for persons with disabilities. It is a task that must be understood not as an option but as an obligation of the public authorities to remove all these obstacles and all those difficulties. The last issue I would like to address is that if all of these actions are necessary, as provided for in Law 51/2003 on Equal Opportunities, Non-Discrimination and Universal Accessibility of Persons with Disabilities, your explanatory statement reminds us that the need for the creation of the law is established not only because it can be seen that, despite the actions of the public authorities, there are still those obstacles that make this law necessary, but also because it reminds us that those obstacles that must be removed by the public authorities are updated, changed and all of us, as such, are obliged to adapt and adapt the rules that exist on this particular issue. In that regard, I understand very well the non-legislative proposal and of course I join the compromise that it has proposed on behalf of all groups and I thank you for your initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Tremiño, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u76	President, we are going to present a compromise accepting all the amendments from the rest of the groups, which we will all sign and which we will send to you before the votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u77	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Group of the European United States of America may, in common, on the global economic and trade agreement [[AECG-CETA]] [[File number 162/000219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u78	We turn to item 4 of the agenda, which is the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the Global Economic and Trade Agreement. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mrs Ballester Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u79	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very serious matter here today, a bad news for our democracy: Mariano Rajoy's government, not the current one but the former government in office, has failed to comply with the Constitution. Specifically, it had failed to comply with article 94, which said that the provision of the consent of the State to be bound by treaties or conventions would require the prior authorization of the General Courts. On 14 October, ladies and gentlemen, a government in office, without prior authorization or consultation with this Parliament, approved the signing of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, the one known as CETA. This is why the group I represent brings here today a non-legislative proposal to talk about this agreement, about CETA; agreement that has not only been approved through an anti-democratic procedure, but implies the definition of our business model, the definition of our international relations and the definition of the rights that we want to shield, not substrate, which is what the Government intends to do by signing this agreement. Despite the obscurantism, despite the Brussels jargon, that technical mantle surrounding the agreement, millions of European Union citizens who have known its content are fighting against this free trade treaty because of the tremendous impact it will have on all of us and ourselves. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that more than 3.5 million signatures were handed over to the European Commission last year. In our country, Les Corts Valencianes, the Parliament of Catalonia, the Parliament of Les Illes Balears, the Parliament of Extremadura and more than a thousand municipalities have already protested against CETA. Trade unions, social organizations, environmentalists, agrarians, SMEs, the association of European judges, Judges for Democracy, have all protested against this treaty, which has been concluded without any participation or consultation of citizens. Last October, 340 associations mobilized to denounce this unconditional support to the CETA of the Spanish Government, then, I recall, in office. That Government is practically the same as it is today to be held accountable for not consulting this Parliament in this very House, for not reporting on the negotiations on that treaty, which is not only a trade agreement, but also affecting constitutional issues. We are not the only ones, the German Constitutional Court has also said so. It is very serious that this economic and trade agreement, and the whole process that surrounds it, can be incompatible with European treaties and with our own Constitution. It's very serious, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are proposing in this plenary a non-legislative proposal which urges the Government to alleviate - because it is already impossible to correct - the democratic deficits of the adoption of the CETA in the spirit that it will not happen again, that international treaties as important as this be brought before the Spanish people's sovereignty with prior control by the Constitutional Court, that the Government justify the decision taken while in office and that it take into account the democratic safeguards, for which we are still in time; we are also proposing measures to safeguard the agricultural market in the event of imbalance and, above all, we call for consultation by referendum before the final ratification of the treaty. This is about the process of adopting that treaty, but we must also think and deal with the content of that treaty in this House, the impacts it can have on the Spanish and European economy and on our rule of law. CETA, as civil society denounces, modifies our Constitution from different axes; first, from the sovereignty and the failure of the principle of equality and justice. CETA provides for a dispute resolution mechanism between investors and States, called an investment cut-off system, whereby large corporations can denounce States for enacting laws that could compromise their profits, no more or no less. Claims are brought not to national courts but to courts controlled by these same corporations. We are talking about private justice for multinationals, for the benefit of multinationals. That is called privilege and is incompatible with democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] CETA also violates state sovereignty and territorial and local autonomy, generating bodies that are going to be above and with regulatory capacity over public authorities. Whenever a government wants to regulate social, labour or environmental rights, some of these bodies, without any democratic control, will be able to limit public action without transparency in deliberations and without appeal mechanisms. It is simply an attack on democracy and the Constitution, which some groups in this House claim to defend, but which are then set aside when Mariano Rajoy and his Government have not only signed this treaty, but are favouring its adoption. What an alliance you have made, ladies and gentlemen: an alliance against the people. We do not look elsewhere when it comes to people and their rights. We are concerned that when another Government wants to regulate fracking, food security, energy poverty or fiscal policy issues, no-one's elected bodies come to limit the legitimate capacity of this House to decide policies and laws. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this international agreement has a radical impact on the economic model. It is an agreement that says that we need to make progress in the privatization of public services and also specifically mentions care and care centres for the elderly. The People's Party government, which does not want to protect pensions, claims that our elders have to pay for the care of their pocket. Very nice, ladies and gentlemen. This agreement is tortuous in mechanisms which, moreover, will make it impossible to deprivatize already privatized services, as if we no longer have few problems with the privatization experiments, for example, of health and, if not, to be told to Valencians and Valencians. In addition, several studies indicate that CETA could increase the annual cost of prescriptions for medicinal products by almost EUR 600 million. This is an agreement that recklessly imposes the liberalization of public procurement and financial services. The impact of this treaty will be irreversible on our rural environment, on SMEs, on energy and other strategic sectors and on the precarious reality of many sectors of our population, including the autonomous ones, of which much has been said today but which nobody remembers when the CETA is approved. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an agreement signed by this government without anyone appearing in this House for a minute to explain its content or to listen to the voice and mandate of Parliament, of representatives elected by the people. In the face of the clamor against this treaty of citizenship and civil society, the Rajoy Government is again silently responding. Well, today we can end that silence. We ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support our Executive in bringing CETA to this House, to this Parliament. We ask you to support us so that the decisions that will affect millions of lives and our economy will never again be made without light and stenographers and, above all, never again be made behind people's back.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u80	Mrs. Ballester, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u81	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u82	Thank you. We are now in favour of the amendments put forward by the groups. I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Ballester, in the Secret Service Act we have discussed previously we have agreed, but here we disagree frontally. After listening to it, I believe that today we have opened the Parliament of post-truth and prejudice. In point 4 of its non-legislative proposal, they propose not to authorize signature. This is the competence of the Government and you point out in paragraph 10 that, if Parliament is signed, through Article 95 of the Constitution, it does have the competence of validation in the Commission and in plenary in Congress and in the Senate. With this, we must first be a little consistent with the legal mechanisms for the handling and involvement of Parliament in the discussion of international treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, as a principle, we are in favour of free trade. We believe that globalization must be governed much better. We are in favour of having greater attention and care for the small letter of these treaties. We are in favour of transparency and participatory processes and in this respect we are in favour of our amendment to point 4, which replaces and changes it. We consider Brexit to be bad news, that Trump is bad news, and that any protectionist approach is bad news, and when you talk about armoring, the shielding verb is very similar to other protectionist approaches. We are very afraid of private arbitration courts; this is an issue that needs to be monitored and that in the TTPI it was a very important threat element. We have to look at the small letter of environment, privacy, food security, sanitary and phytosanitary requirements and public services, but, Mrs Ballester, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is that services are provided, not if they are provided in public or in concert. We have two different models of society that will be reflected here in the debate. This is Parliament. Welcome to parliamentary diversity and, in this case, we believe that we must act from the rigour and not from the post-truth Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u84	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. The next item is Mr Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u85	Get out of the way. First of all, I would like to highlight the relevance of this debate because although many people may think that CETA is already approved, certainly thanks to the work of some media and certain powers such as the Government, which by the back door, in office, decided to validate CETA, the debate is still not even much less closed, only one of the three necessary steps has passed; it has the second, which is the Eurocamera, where probably the European socialist family, that of liberals and that of conservatives, will unite their votes and will also pass this second procedure of validation of CETA; but they have the third, which is the approval in forty different scenarios - some go beyond the national scenario - that deepen further in democracy, lowering it further down through a federalizing process, as in Wallonia. We'll go straight ahead. We don't like CETA or TTIP. For us and for us, for the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, and not only for the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, these are fundamental agreements or last generation mega-treaties based on the defense of the interests of the ruling classes and on the consolidation of the current phase of capitalism, which is nothing other than that of giving all power to transnationals and replacing democracy with a 'corpocracy'. We have seen how everything goes to impose CETA and everything will go to impose TTIP. We have seen it in Wallonia, we have seen how they have had to endure pressures and coercion, and we and we have not said it, those who have had to succumb even to those pressures and coercions that are considered intolerable. But at the same time we have seen how nothing was done in Hungary when Hungary decided not to comply with the quota of admission of refugees; here we have seen the true face of the process of European construction, of the process of economic consolidation in which we are, which is the one that prioritizes capital above people. It is a stage in which human rights are below the priority of trade or transnational rights. Even if it was only out of solidarity with a Parliament like the Walloon, it would have to be against CETA. There is much talk of the self-government of the Basque Autonomous Community, it is said that we have unimaginable levels of sovereignty, but we have seen how Wallonia can do what we and we, the Basques and the Basques do not want to do, which is to try to stop the CETA.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u86	Mr. Matute, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u87	Yeah, I'm finishing up. I see on the clock that I have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u88	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u89	As Che Guevara said, paraphrasing him, I wish just as he said one, two and many Vietnam, there were one, two and many Wallonias. But if the matter is so important, and in that we will all agree, why not submit to a referendum if we all agree that our citizens are trained and have critical capacity?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u90	Mr. Matute, I beg you to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u91	But I still have seven seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u92	For the rest of the Joint Group, it has to be shared with the Joint Group as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u93	He told me he had two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u94	No, two minutes. It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u95	Okay, I'm sorry. I conclude by saying that we will support the initiative because today, just as we did forty-three years ago, we continue to ask ourselves the same question: why should they be miserablely poor for others to be overly rich? Fidel Castro... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u96	Mr Matute, you have finished your speaking time. Mr Candela Serna has the floor. [[Pause]] Isn't he? Aren't you going to intervene? [[Pause]] By the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u97	Too late to all and so to all. Mr President, the amendment that we are presenting is nothing new, based on the claim that we have been applying for months on the basis that the Spanish State cannot ratify any international treaty and less such a treaty, a treaty that covers many, many fundamental issues of importance to citizens without a referendum in advance. Let us not forget that we are talking about an agreement that takes nothing more and nothing less than five years of negotiation and more than a year and a half of legal review, that is, behind closed doors, where the interests of large industrial and financial corporations are intended to impose ahead of the rights of citizens. Although the main objective of the agreement is based on trade liberalization by removing tariff or administrative barriers among other measures, in fact, the agreement goes much further. It is precisely those aspects relating to the harmonization of legislation or the court of arbitration between companies and States that have given rise to strong opposition to the treaty. Canada is currently the world's most disputed State under the ISDS mechanism, a total of six, because the Nafta trade agreement includes this dispute resolution mechanism. The ICS, which is the mechanism proposed by CETA, we believe that it can have great similarities to it. These agreements, as they are drafted, first of all benefit multinationals to the detriment of workers; secondly, they undermine consumer and environmental protection standards; thirdly, they put labour rights at risk and, lastly, they favour the privatization of public services. It therefore represents a genuine capitulation to the interests of large companies, putting at risk the existing regulatory laws within the Union. We therefore need a paradigm shift towards a trade policy that is transparent, a trade policy that is clearly inclusive and based on the needs of people and also of our planet. It is true and I do not find anything if I say that civil society has mobilised, organized against these free trade treaties, against the opacity and secrecy that surrounds the negotiations and against the uncertainty and lack of guarantees that these agreements entail. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u98	I beg your silence, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u99	These unacceptable negotiations have exposed social organizations, trade union organizations, non-governmental, environmental, health, economic and political organizations as well as ordinary citizens who have shown genuine rejection or have gone out to the streets to demand their right to decide on agreements that will have particular significance in their daily lives. It is therefore a scandal that the Spanish State, disregarding these mobilizations and by meeting of the Council of Ministers, authorizes the signing of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, the known CETA, and of the strategic partnership between Canada and the Union without prior consultation of citizens or even parliamentary debate, since this signature will produce legal changes without any form, I repeat, of democratic participation. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we ask ourselves: Is a government in office entitled to authorize the signing of an international agreement, not any international agreement, which I do not know either, of these magnitudes or to express its consent to be bound by it? I'm asking. Perhaps the Spanish State should consider the claims and wills of citizens which persist in its attempt to explain the criticisms of the lack of democracy and the lack of transparency on the part of the European Union and the Spanish Government and the rejection of treaties which, as they are raised, will obviously have serious implications on a daily basis for all European citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, this non-law proposal is pure filibusterism, let me tell you this and make it clear. This coincides with some sectors on the left with the most far-right, for example, in the United States, not with CETA, but with TTIP. If someone unloads it, it's not going to be the European Union, but it's very likely President Trump will do it. To ask now for a further review to be sent to the European Court of Justice or even to the Spanish Constitutional Court seems to me to be parliamentary filibusterism to at least delay approval or its implementation in eighteen months, when all the legal advice of the Commission but also of the European Parliament and even some constitutional courts, such as the German one, has already seen it. Furthermore, where is European legality being violated? They don't say that. They are asking for a report, to be said, to be looked at, but they do not say where European legality is being violated. Unfortunately, in these kinds of agreements we are witnessing day and day also a lot of mantra, a lot of phrase made. Are we going to charge labour standards, environmental standards, consumer protection? No, because simply and basically in this CETA agreement, as will be the case with TTIP, if the standard of environmental, labour, consumer protection is not the same in Canada and the United States, it simply deviates from the agenda and is not part of CETA's agreement. Therefore, we are entering into areas where standards are perfectly comparable because they do not come out of the agenda. If we want world trade to move in standards that are more like ours, Europeans, we must ensure that the largest number of global players are in that key. If we can't make a deal with Canada, who are we going to make a deal with? With whom will the European Union make an agreement if it cannot do so with Canada? You place a lot of emphasis on the subject of geographical indications, the protection of Spanish products, their standards, their quality, etc. All products present today in trade in Canada will have the necessary protection to avoid plagiarism. As for the geographical indication, that is, the place and quality, where they should come from and what their characteristics are, Canada has accepted almost 150 geographical indications, of which 27 are Spanish, so they are already protected. Moreover, it can be said that today there is no geographical indication affecting Spain that is not protected. There is no such thing, apart from the fact that it is ensured in the treaty that if in the future there is to be another because a product of these characteristics is beginning to be marketed in Canada, it will also be protected through the agreement. When it is said that this is what the multinationals want, I have to say that the multinationals have access to our markets without problems. They already do so with their powerful legal services, with their capacity for implementation. It is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises that have problems in adapting themselves, in order to be able to set up themselves. To these is addressed CETA, to those to which a market can be opened, to European small and medium-sized enterprises in Canada. There are some who really need it. There's a joint statement... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u102	Mr. Esteban, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. I do not know if you realize, but the level of the murmur is increasing and I am sure that the speaker who is speaking, and who is the only person we should be listening to, is very upset. I would ask you, please, not to raise the level of murmuring and to respect the speaker's word as much as possible. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is a joint statement from the European Union and Canada - also in their case it will be with the United States - that no Administration will be forced to privatize a public service. That's another mantra. No, no, In all EU agreements it is an expressly protected issue and certain sectors, such as water supply, social services, health and education, have been excluded. They're excluded. And I will tell you something else, right now, a country like the United States - Canada too, it is the same case - can enter with their companies to get a European public contract and yet European companies cannot do the opposite. CETA is going to make this possible. Products in the European primary sector may have a major demand, but the European Parliament's mandate is always to protect those sectors that I have mentioned and a joint statement has been made. As for the arbitration system - with this I conclude - it gives the impression, listening to you, that it has been invented for CETA or TTIP. No, this is from many years ago, from fifty years ago in agreements established by the United Nations. That the system isn't good? I completely agree, but you can't deny that you're consolidating improvements. By the way, I have not heard anyone raise their voices about the more than 1,400 bilateral trade agreements that the European Union has that are affected by this arbitration system. However, foreign companies investing in the EU or European companies investing in the United States - this must be said clearly - cannot avoid national courts in their disputes. If the matter concerns national rules, national courts must be heard and, only if they are prevented from being heard by this body - a decision to be taken by the requested court - can they avail themselves of the international arbitration mechanism. In the second instance, it should be recalled that if the issue at issue expressly concerns the contents of the International Trade Agreement, the arbitration mechanism must be used, as is currently the case with thousands of treaties. In addition, CETA improves the situation, because there have been change measures aimed at ensuring the independence of arbitrators, forcing them to adhere to a code of conduct and making their path and selection process transparent. In addition, citizens and non-governmental organizations will be allowed to convey their positions to the process and be published as all deliberations. Finally - this is another great novelty - an appeal body will be set up to review the decisions of these investor-state dispute settlement tribunals and, so far, there was no such second instance. We are walking towards an international court that will surely be ideal.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u104	You have to conclude, Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u105	And I conclude, Mr. President. Of course there has been democratic participation. I would like the European Parliament to be more and more a Parliament and not a European Commission, but a genuine European government. We too, as citizens, are represented in this European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u106	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u107	President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate that we are bringing to the House today on the Canada-European Union Free Trade Agreement, CETA, is an important debate, but it is actually a much more substantive debate. It is a debate between those who are in favour of open and progressive societies - like my party, which is represented in this House - and those who are clearly against, like the advocates of Angels' initiative, of Podemos, here today. [[Applauds]] This is a debate between which we believe that openness, exchanges and trade are the basis of our wealth in the global world of knowledge and, from conservative positions, they prefer to set fences to the field, build walls, close borders, limit exchanges and dream of a sleepy future that fortunately no longer exists. Don't look surprised, Angels. You know as well as I do that among Trump's priority proposals in winning the elections was to put a wall on the border with Mexico and also to break down the TPP Trade Agreement with Asia-Pacific. Do you know what happens when such trade agreements collapse and tariff barriers begin to be imposed? Exactly what happened in the 1930s on this continent: tariff barriers are starting to rise and millions of workers who are out of work end up getting hurt. [[Applauds]] That agreement logically took many precautions, because it was an agreement with China, which did not respect human rights, nor did it respect the necessary environmental safeguards and labour rights. But do you really want us to believe, Angels, that Canada has a problem in that regard? [[Mr. Errejón Galván: Angela.-Laughter]] Canada is more European than Europe. Canada meets fundamental requirements far beyond what most of our countries do, so there is no risk that health and environmental requirements, labour regulations, basic protections of rights, data, etc. will be breached. That's just not true. Gentlemen of Podemos, I am afraid that in reality you do not have the problem with Canada or with this trade agreement; the problem you have with your own prejudices against international trade and against open societies. [[Applauds]] In Citizens we think that much needs to be done to improve globalization, but there is an abyss between believing that globalization can be improved and wanting to destroy it. What globalization and greater competition do is drive innovation, push businesses to improve. This innovation creates new jobs, more stable, better paid, more productive and better protected. Export-related work in Spain - in Spain, yes - is paid 50% more than that which is simply directed to the internal market. Trade agreements like this improve the lives of consumers, allow them access to higher consumer products and lower prices. Being more integrated into global production chains makes us stronger. When we are not, when countries export in less than they matter, we are much more vulnerable to a sudden surge of funding, which is what happened to us in this country in 2008 precisely because we had a trade imbalance with the brutal outside. You know who doesn't like this kind of trade deal at all? Precisely to the companies that have captured the national markets, those of the capitalism of friends that take the contracts to finger; those are the ones that do not want this kind of trade agreements. [[Applauds]] If you really want to fight the caste and you really want to fight the capitalism of friends, open up to trade agreements like this, let them compete and you will see how it ends. The idea that globalization only benefits the rich is probably the most absurd idea of this new old left that you bring us here. [[Applauds]] Globalization and trade openness is the most powerful mechanism we know for the fight against poverty. [[Mr Errejón Galvan utters words that are not perceived]] Since 1950, millions of jobs have been created in Asia and Latin America thanks to competition and the incentives created by the price mechanism. True, there are alternatives, driving, autarchy, caudillism and isolationism, collective promises that spread misery and leave pharmacies without drugs and create rationing quotas. [[Applauds]] Although well looked at, depending on who it affects, it does seem that you give importance to trade, or at least some of your spokespersons. For example, when you speak of Cuba, you say that all of Cuba's problems are not of its institutions or of its problems of bad governance, but come from the United States blocking them, which has been making them a commercial blockade for so many years. As I said, globalization generates winners and losers; that you have not discovered. Dani Rodrik said in his famous trilemma that if we want to preserve democracy and continue to grow in a global world, we have to broaden the borders of governance, we have to improve global and transnational governance. With that we agree, the solution is not to put walls, as Trump does, to put more borders, as Orban proposes, or to leave the European Union, as you propose in the European Parliament. The solution is to better govern globalization, beyond the nation-state, and to design effective public policies against labour poverty, such as wage supplementation. The solution is to improve educational policies, as proposed by Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u108	Mr. Roldán, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u109	I'm finishing up. The Trade Agreement with Canada also has many advantages for Spain. - I'm going to give you two lines, and this ends. The removal of barriers and tariffs for agriculture offers enormous potential for markets, such as olive oil, vegetable products, ham, pork products, to expand their borders, to grow, to have more buyers protecting Spanish geographical names and benefiting many sectors, such as fishing and the automotive industry, which is key to Spain. To conclude, gentlemen of Podemos, unfortunately everyone does not create jobs with banners or surrounding Congresses or rapping in rallies,...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u110	Finish now, Mr. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u111	... work is created by opening up opportunities, inclusive and progressive trade agreements such as CETA. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u112	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the non-legislative proposal brought to us today by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea does not respond to the real situation in which CETA is located and has not been defended in this rostrum in accordance with the literal terms of the text, because we are not asked to have this Parliament rule on CETA. You know that this Parliament is necessarily going to rule on the Trade Treaty with Canada, as will the 27 national parliaments that make up the European Union. This is a new generation mixed treaty, where the European Union has negotiated on the basis of the competences which the European Union has, and those competences which are not of the European Union, which continue to be resident in the Member States, it is precisely the national parliaments that are going to pronounce and approve this treaty, which, finally, if approved by the 27 national parliaments, will be ratified and will enter into force. What you are asking us today is for us to ban the European Parliament from taking a decision on a treaty that the European Union has the right and competence to negotiate. There is bad news, I agree with you: the bad news is that we have recently witnessed a growing movement against trade liberalization, against immigration, the free movement of people, and in favour of protectionism and the renationalisation of politics. That happens on different sides, to the right, to the left and unfortunately to populism that will settle in the United States after Trump's election. It is necessary to apply policy to the economic market, and this is only done by regulating, through international treaties and supranational institutions, financial markets, monopolies, cartels, concessional, corporate privileges that, let us not forget, exist because politics, international and national, allow it. Having said that, the Social Democrats understand that the European Parliament has the right to speak politically on a treaty negotiated by the European Union and the Commission in the field of its competence. But we European Socialists have raised fundamental elements from the outset in safeguarding the rights of citizens, workers and consumers. I'm going to quote three briefly. The first, on the level of protection we enjoy in Europe, is not negotiated. They are non-negotiable: European standards of environmental protection, European standards of social and labour protection. - Unnegotiated. I would like to tell you that of the eight core treaties of the International Labour Organization, Canada has ratified seven, had not ratified the eighth, and is in the process of ratification precisely by the adoption of this agreement, ratification of the International Agreement on the Right to Bargain and Trade Union. I can assure you that the Canadian workers are happy. Another fundamental element, ladies and gentlemen. Public services are not negotiated. Among other things, I would like to recall, because in this rostrum two elements have been said that are not true and frighten citizens: that the founding Treaty of the European Union states that the powers to regulate public services are national competences. In the case of Spain, it is up to the State and the autonomous communities; and I would like to remind them that in the Community of Madrid or in the Community of Valencia, governed by the People's Party, basic services such as health have been privatized and not by the Canadians or by the Americans, but because it governed the People's Party there for many years. [[Applauds]] This is it. I would like to point out something, although it is a very heavy, very rapid intervention on such an important subject, which I find interesting. Mr Esteban referred to the joint interpretative declaration, and I would like to point out page 4, point 4. [[Showing a document]] Look at you, ladies and gentlemen, what it says: The right of governments at all levels of government to facilitate the support and provision of services that they consider to be public, including public health, education and public services is guaranteed. There will be no requirement for Governments to privatize any service and no impediment to Governments to return to the public domain those privatized services or to expand the types of services provided to the public. That is to say, the Valencian Government today can undoubtedly make public public services such as health which have been privatized, because there will be no impediments under the CETA Treaty. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this treaty establishes a new settlement mechanism for the protection of foreign investment. I want to tell you that we European Social Democrats demand that negotiations be opened because we refused to accept a treaty with a private arbitration system. The international tribunal will be for the resolution of conflicts affecting the treaty, which - in fact, as Mr Aitor Esteban has quite rightly pointed out - will not be for other types of elements that have to do with national legislation. These will be done by national courts and, as far as the treaty is concerned, by an international tribunal...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u114	You have to finish, Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u115	I'm done. ... very similar to the International Court of Justice: fifteen judges elected between the European Union and Canada who will undoubtedly be subject to a process of impartiality, rules of application of international tribunals and an appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal going on. Without CETA we will be in private arbitration systems. Ladies and gentlemen, without CETA, of the twenty-seven designations of origin that are included today and that will be protected in Canada, there will be zero recognized and protected protections of origin in Canadian markets.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u116	Mrs. Rodriguez, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u117	Therefore - ladies and gentlemen, I conclude - I do not think it is appropriate to bring forward such a resolution, which does not correspond to the real situation. This Parliament is going to ratify or not, but it is going to discuss CETA in the whole area of national competence which belongs to the Spanish Government and State. It seems to me that today was a political subterfuge, a parliamentary ploy to prevent the European Parliament from exercising the political right it assists as a representative of all the citizens of the Union to make a political decision on this treaty in January 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u118	Mrs Palmer Tous has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start my speech on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, stressing the importance of trade agreements for Europe. At the moment, the European Union has signed some two hundred liberalising agreements, to a greater or lesser extent, with states and blocs of countries around the world; agreements that have in all cases been enormously beneficial in terms of growth and job creation for the European economy, that is, for European businesses and citizens. Historically, countries thrive when they are outward-oriented and the Spanish economy has not been alien to this process. Our economy has always expanded intensely after the opening phases it has experienced in recent decades. Thanks to this today we export more than a third of our GDP and there are about 150,000 companies considered to be exporters, many of which are SMEs. External openness has been and is a source of growth and employment for Spain; it is a key factor for its prosperity. In fact, it should be remembered that the export sector has played an indisputable role in the current economic recovery phase. I therefore believe that we should continue along that line. In the specific case before us today, the Trade, Economic and Global Agreement aims to boost trade with one of the most developed countries in the world, Canada. An agreement that generates great opportunities as a result of which implementation is estimated to increase European production annually by around EUR 12 billion, with the resulting generation of employment. Precisely in terms of employment, we must remember that about 30 million jobs in the European Union depend on international exports. Almost EUR 1 billion in Union exports is equivalent to an average of some 14,000 jobs, and these jobs also tend to be better paid than those that do not depend on exports. - That's right. It therefore seems to me that with this data Europe should have as a priority to continue working and negotiating new trade agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, we could continue to describe many of the benefits of the entry into force of the agreement, which in many cases reflects its high ambition and scope, but I am not going to bore you with the details that you all know well and which have already been listed. With regard to the criticism he has received, nothing more and nothing less has been said about the danger of non-compliance with international standards and covenants in human rights, workers' rights, environmental standards, food security or consumer protection. Well, here I want to make it quite clear to me that the agreement will not affect Union rules in any of these areas, nor will it involve interference with public services such as health or education. [[Applauds]] There has also been some controversy over the international arbitration system that has been designed to protect international investors from discrimination by Governments. At this point, the European side at the moment proposed a procedure that was not private, and so it has been. There will be no private justice when dealing with conflicts between foreign investors and States. Focused already on the points of the proposal, I must point out that it is only possible to dismiss your requests for impropriety, repetition or inopportunity. For some reason, as regards requests for information on the negotiation, although I would like to recall that the Government of Spain as such has not carried out any negotiations, since trade policy is the exclusive competence of the European Union and not of the States, it has been informed of everything through the Consultative Committee on Trade Negotiations of the Ministry of Economy, so the request to report on the negotiation is repetitive. I would also like to point out that the adoption of the agreement, such as its forthcoming provisional application in matters which are - let us recall - the exclusive competence of the European Union, comply with all Community legislation for this purpose, and it is therefore again inappropriate to request provisional application since it is not the competence of the Spanish Government to do so. And so we could continue with all the requests that are made. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, given the advantages, the obvious benefits of the agreement and the non-truthfulness of the criticisms, one wonders what are the reasons for the submission of this non-law proposal to reject the agreement. An analysis of the points of the proposition corroborates - we have seen - the lack of rigour that has guided it and reveals, moreover, a very concrete ideological vision of the liberalizing agreements, without greater argument than a supposed struggle against a capitalist system. And here I ask myself several questions: What do you intend with this proposal?, what is its objective? If we do not integrate into these liberalizing processes, do we return to approaches characteristic of other centuries? do we return to ideologies contrary to trade that brought poverty, misery and hunger? do we return to isolation? do we return to protectionism? Recent studies show that a major cause of the current slowdown in global economic growth, in addition to uncertainty, has been the neo-protectionism and neo-populism that has been detected in some countries. In contrast, the more open economies have better resisted the crisis and overcome it earlier. Open economies are more prosperous than isolated ones. It seems clear that not wanting free trade is not betting on economic growth, progress and job creation. - I'm done. The external sector - I repeat again - is and has been key to the economic growth of this country and for the European Union as a whole, and we want it to remain so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palmer. Mrs Ballester Muñoz, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u121	Mr President, there is an amendment tabled by our group to update the content of the GNP that was submitted before the signing of the agreement. That amendment includes the content of the amendment tabled by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, so it is accepted, and we do not accept that of the Catalan Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u122	I therefore understand that the self-amendment that you have tabled is accepted only.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u123	Yes, you vote according to our self-amendment, which is a replacement.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u124	All right.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u125	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. First of all, it is appropriate to discuss the motion following the urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group into the government's policy to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Trevín Lombán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support this motion, on behalf of the Socialist Group, in order for this Government to restore the freedoms it has stolen from all Spaniards. We ask in it, first, to repeal Organic Law 4/2015, which you call the protection of citizen security, but which is more and better known as the Law gag. Secondly, to put in place urgent measures to put an end to the growing sense of insecurity that citizens have. And, thirdly, to tackle at once the bloody cuts that have been applied in recent years to the State security services. You believe that a safe society is a silent and domesticated society. We believe that discrepancy is the true essence of democracy. That is why the Law gags is deeply undemocratic. Discrepare translates into protest and, the former Minister of the Interior, intended to end any form of protest: of thought or word, of work or omission. If Greenpeace activists place a banner in a public building, they are liable to a fine of between 100 and 600 euros. It may also happen to young people who put stickers in a lighthouse or camp in the sun. Or a young woman carrying her bag with a figure of a cat and the acronym ACAB, 'All cats are pretty'. Or activists who collect signatures with a table on the sidewalks. Or those who enter a bank and start dancing through boulevards to protest mockingly against any of those financial products designed by triplets with ties. A fine of between €601 and €30,000 may also be imposed on women's activists who disturb public acts or other solemnities or on those activists who try to peacefully prevent the execution of administrative or judicial decisions on eviction. Gentlemen of the People's Party, in this parliamentary term without absolute majority, we are being asked for an attitude conducive to dialogue and agreement. Now they have the opportunity to demonstrate the sincerity of their demand. Let us work together to remove the gag of the Spaniards, with a new rule that is more respectful of the fundamental rights and freedoms of our Magna Charter and that corrects some mistakes in the field of foreign affairs. You, gentlemen of the PP, have introduced a system of return at the border of foreigners that does not adequately respect the rules that require an opportunity to seek international protection from those who are entitled to it. But it is not the only problem in this area that Spain has, ladies and gentlemen. Aliens detention centres are a constant source of conflict. Today Amnesty International denounces in the media severe failures in the care of migrants and refugees at CETI in Ceuta and Melilla. Entry into them should be only a measure restricted to essential assumptions and should not entail any more limitation than that which is indispensable. Inmates must have their rights guaranteed in them, especially those relating to health care. All this, and in any case, ensuring the necessary judicial supervision with maximum transparency. We need it, ladies and gentlemen, because to date the Ministry of the Interior has carried out an opaque management in these centres and, at the same time, has drastically cut their budgets. But the CIEs are not much less the only place where the cuts are wreaking havoc, in our prisons as well. We need to ensure the human and material means to ensure that prison sentences are carried out in conditions of dignity and security. We must also make it clear that the rehabilitation and social reintegration of inmates are the main objectives to be achieved, as mandated by article 25 of our Constitution. We must ensure the proper functioning of the programmes that contribute most to this, such as the UTE of the Asturian prison or the module for young mothers in Alicante, which is still closed. Is it not strange to you that Spain is a European country with a safety standard above the European average and that we are, on the contrary, among those with a higher ratio of people in prison? Ladies and gentlemen, the public system that guarantees the safety of Spaniards has been eroded over the past four years. The last few weeks I gave some figures on this which I repeat because in his reply the minister allowed some doubts to arise. The General Budgets of the State tell us that in the last five years the budget allocation for public security has decreased by 500 million euros - 500 million euros less for public security in five years - and the troops of the State Security Forces and Corpses have a catalog deficit that exceeds 20,000. It is also unquestionable the increase in the crimes that the greater feeling of insecurity create among the Spaniards. The statistics of the Ministry of State for Security in the first half of this year indicate that murder and murder increased by 18.4 per cent over the same period last year - 18.4 per cent - and forced robbery at home by 2.2 per cent, a criminal offence that increases year by year. Today, the media reports the arrest of fifty Georgians for thefts in at least one hundred homes in Madrid and Barcelona. Nor does safety on our roads evolve better. Figures of deaths in traffic accidents have triggered all the alarms. According to DGT data, until yesterday we carried thirty-three more victims than in the same period of 2015, thirty-three more victims than in the previous year, ladies and gentlemen. The increase is very worrying because it can lead us to fail this year to meet the EU's 2020 target for reducing road deaths. Thus, from exemplary state a decade ago to suspected of non-compliance today. [[Show a chart]] See the orange line indicating the European Union target and the blue line below indicating the number of deaths in Spain. So far, systematically, we have gone far below the European Union's target, but this year, for the first time in a decade, we can fail to meet that target. We have professional security forces, ladies and gentlemen, but their number has fallen dramatically in recent years. That is why we ask to increase their staffing and a new operational plan to reduce the theft with force in the field and in the Spanish domiciles, as well as a programme of measures to stop the increase of the road accident. Finally, we call for more security for those who guarantee ours, that is, for our civilian guards. On 15 January, the new Military Penal Code came into force, which can be applied to them under any circumstances, and it is not logical; except when they are on a military mission, it should never be applied to them. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. There is a common denominator in these requests. We only ask them to change three things, only three things. Change the gag, the fines and the hard hand for freedom, rights and public services. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u127	You have to conclude, Mr Trevín.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u128	'Freedom, Sancho, is one of the most precious gifts that men gave the heavens...', wrote Cervantes, a good connoisseur of the appreciation that the Spaniards give to this good. They also appreciate their rights and rely on public services, especially in the area of security. Today I ask you to vote in favour of this motion or, which is the same, in favour of freedom, rights and public services. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u129	Thank you, Mr Trevín. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Miquel i Valentí is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u130	Thank you very much, President. Mr Trevín, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that we very much like to talk about rights and freedoms, and that this House is always discussing and debating this is good news, although it knows us little by little, and I shall refer to it at a later stage. Look, this motion is almost a patchwork tapestry where you have sewn up and receded different issues of different origin and absolutely different spending and put them under the umbrella of defending the rights and freedoms of citizens, and that seems right to me, seems to me a good thing. In fact, we will support this motion. How can we be against improving the conditions of inmates in foreign detention centres? How could we be against that? How could we be against repealing the Law gag? We are in favour of that point of your motion. But in his motion there is room for more things, and that's what we meant. If we are talking about the rights and freedoms of Spanish citizens and also Catalans, Mr Trevín, we need to talk, for example, about the reform of the Constitutional Court Act, which completely boosted the separation of powers and conditioned the rights and freedoms of Spanish and Catalan citizens. If we are talking, Mr Trevín, about rights and freedoms in Catalonia and Spain, but especially in Catalonia, we need to talk about the police structure that the former Minister of the Interior set up to pursue those we think differently from what he thinks. If we are talking about rights and freedoms, we need to talk about what you are proposing, about this patchwork motion that you are putting before us today, but we also need to talk about other things, and that is why we are presenting these two amendments, in order to add these two points to your motion, which will - we have said so - be rejected. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of the motion and place you in search of spaces for debate and discussion so that you can continue to guarantee the rights and freedoms of Catalan and Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. New Canarias is going to support this question-based motion made by the Socialist Group because it believes that the issue arises from the point of view of the package of measures that need to be taken - I think they are not all of them and I am sure that you are aware of that - when it comes to acting on the freedom-security binomial. This is the bottom line. It is necessary to act on both levels and we believe that this motion does raise issues in both. In two minutes I don't have time to get into it anymore, but I would like to talk about the so-called law of gags. Speaking precisely of the binomial freedom-security, we had to denounce in his day that what was happening with this legislative initiative was that a decision had been made in the face of citizen protests associated with a harsh crisis that, by the way, were suffering those who were not responsible for the origin of the crisis. In the face of this, a decision was made, which was to act on the level of freedoms. There have never been any elements, data that confirm serious security problems to justify such a decision, so that a law that should protect citizen security has become an anti-protest law. Therefore, what is punished is the people who protest, the people who complain, the people who criticize, and from this there are many examples that we do not have time to develop. There is, therefore, a temptation to act on the problems by repressing the weakest and their legitimate freedom of expression that we will never defend. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u133	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. This initiative, presented and defended by Mr Trevín Lombán, is a very complicated totum revolutionum. It is a motion that, from one stop, among other things, calls for the repeal of the Law on Citizen Security, the reform of the Military Penal Code, the situation of staffing in penal institutions, the increase in the staff of our State Security Forces and Bodies, as well as its provision of means, the elaboration in three months of an operational plan against theft, the improvement of road safety on our roads and, finally, the demand for new measures for income in detention centres for foreigners. By means, the proposer also requests that the proper functioning of the UTE of Villabona prison and the module for young internal mothers of Alicante be normalized. I am concerned, because I am aware of the matter, the Asturian case, although it draws my attention to the fact that Mr Trevín did not link it this afternoon, as he did last March, to the request for the resignation of the Secretary-General of Prison Institutions, with which we did not and do not agree. You're being moderate, Mr. Congressman. This motion revolutionum, of the kind to river revolted earnings of fishermen, will not count on my support, because I believe that these are not ways to seriously raise things. It is very necessary for the opposition to denounce situations or problems affecting citizens, and that is precisely what was done last week to confront them with the Government. However, the subsequent motion, this initiative, should offer solutions, and what is proposed to us this afternoon is a complex mess of subjects whose only connection is that they are within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. Some of them alone could count on the support of the Forum, as is the case of correcting the desperate and unjust result of the drug-free space in Asturias prison, which is detrimental to the constitutional mandate of social inclusion, but immersed in this peculiar mix of themes will not receive my vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u135	Thank you, Mr. Oblanca. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Trevín, under the title of guaranteeing respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens, you have raised a number of issues that I believe are also going to have to be dealt with during this parliamentary term, but I would like to remind you that these rights and freedoms of citizens are safeguarded precisely because we have a State Security Forces and Bodies that allow it. Obviously, when some editorials give a dye that tends to criminalize them, we do not agree with it. We agree to guarantee those rights and freedoms, but of course we have to recognize the work and effort of those professionals, because as some issues are drafted, it may seem that we are trying to further seek their criminalization. I believe, Mr Trevín, that what I wanted was to leave an inventory of those issues that we are going to deal with during the legislature. It has brought together five issues, which are true that they are very important each of them separately, incorporated them, made a whirlwind and, at the same time, dealt with very important issues and introduced very unique cases, resulting in each of these proposals losing strength in the end. Faced with that, what we have done from Citizens is what we always try to do: to put forward a series of technical amendments with the aim of improving the proposal and simply correct those things that we believe are not right or that can be improved. First of all, with regard to the Citizens' Protection Act, we have already concluded an agreement with you in which we said that instead of repealing it, reform was needed. We also talked with you that there were assumptions that had been taken to the Constitutional Court and that if they had to be reviewed it had to be precisely for that purpose, so that that law on citizen security would respond to what was said in the statement and, at the same time, could eliminate those issues that had nothing to do with the Constitution. There is a very important issue, Mr Trevín, which is the Civil Guard. It is true that in this I have to look at the People's Party, because the mouth has always been filled when talking about the Civil Guard, but the Civil Guard does not finish moving forward with a People's Party government. Let us see if now that there is no absolute majority and it seems that in the debates we quite agree, at least four of the main forces of this House, is the time to undertake reforms and to make this also the legislature of the Civil Guard. We do not understand - and in that we agree with you, Mr Trevín - that an involutionary reform of the People's Party would come into force in January 2016 that would remove what had already been gained in 2007 in relation to the cases in which the Military Penal Code had to apply to the Civil Guard and the cases in which it did not. It was said that, in general, it should not be applied to actions carried out in the course of its police functions but only in the event of being on a war mission, in a state of siege or in certain situations which are highly categorized and which make it somewhat rational. Then, Mr Trevín, you say that the staffing of the prison institutions must be guaranteed. We also agree, but we do not understand why he has gone to special cases and why he does not accept our amendment to improve the safety of prison officials, to make a protocol to act on these attacks and to be able to give them more content. So, as we improve the staff, we would improve their conditions. What the People's Party has done has been to have massive prisons when there are prisons that are closed, but now that the economy is improving, we can have enough staff in each of them, staff that can work in better conditions. In this way we could face this great problem of security, rather than losing ourselves to very specific issues which, by exclusion, eliminate other similar issues that exist in the rest of the Spanish State. They have also raised more police staff and more media. We absolutely agree, but again you have gone to certain cases, such as road safety or thefts. We understand that this must be extended to all the world and to all the assumptions because it is a general issue. We believe that the Civil Guard and the police must be incorporated, but why not review the professional status? Why don't we check access, training, promotions, destinations or wages? Why don't we take this opportunity to start discussing this new police model? I am saying this because since you have introduced five such important issues, you could have given them a little more depth rather than get lost in very concrete examples that they do are dazzle a proposal that we believe is interesting. On the subject of the CIEs, we had not tabled any kind of amendment, because we agree that there is a need to regulate the assumptions that give rise to income, that the conditions of inmates need to be improved and that, in particular, health care needs to be guaranteed. We agree with you on that. That is why, despite its poor wording, its bad examples, as we do not want to hinder this from improving, we will abstain in the first one, because we do not understand this of abrogating without waiting for the Constitutional Court and having reviewed on the basis of our agreement, but in everything else we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u138	Mila esker, jauna. Thank you very much, Mr President. Get out of the way. Good afternoon. I'm not gonna be very original. This has been a basket where we've been putting things in and it's obvious that every speech has to start with that lack of systematic. In spite of that, I have taken the concept of security that you enunciated as the guiding thread of all this and have tried to spin a speech around this concept and the things that you ask for. First of all, you talk about the Citizen Security Act, what happens is that that concept of security that you are handling and is seen throughout the entire intervention in the motion we have to expand it. The ability you have to write a thing and then spin a completely different speech has drawn me a lot of attention. It may be the difference between orality and writing, but what you say I don't see. I mean, you've handled here a much broader concept of security than the strict law enforcement or law enforcement security that comes up in this law, and that's why I have to give you the reason. If we talk about security, I like to talk about security within society, not in the concept of public order or public peace that you have stated. What is security? Security is the 3 million poor workers who don't arrive at the end of the month, people who don't know if they're going to be able to take their children to school, people who don't know if they're going to be released. All this is what really generates unquietity, and that unquietity generates insurgency, of course it generates it. And why are we here talking about a People's Party law in this regard? Because the right has very clear what to do when it causes such a situation; it provokes it with you, because you have agreed with them in a quarter of an hour to reform Article 135; you have prioritized this issue. That must be answered and that answer is given on the right from a clearly police model. Why? Because they have very clear what their concept of security is: zero tolerance, broken glass and fucking on the street. There's no problem. You have denounced us here a number of consequences of the sanction, but the sanctions logically derive from this. We can talk about many things, but we are already committed to stop talking about this, to stop talking about repeal and to bring into this House a new law with an absolutely different concept of security and, moreover, to bring it into the context - which you have not mentioned either - of a penal counter-reform that has been developing since punitive populism since 2003 and in which, let us not forget, this law is inserted. If we're going to open the focus, we're going to open it and we're going to work with this. Despite the harshness implied in that speech, we will vote yes, because we do not want to let a chance pass, because we are at a very delicate time and because society cannot understand that we do not take steps forward, even if they are small. From here, as far as I'm concerned, we can talk about the reform of the Military Criminal Code for civilian guards. But it's very clear! The Supreme Court's conflict chamber has already said so. The general rule is the application of the Military Penal Code to civilian guards and the exception when they are carrying out police investigations. What does your statement bring at this time? Nothing. Either it is clearly stated, as Citizens said, in what situations the Military Penal Code will be applied and it is clearly stated that civilian guards will not be applied unless they are framed in military units or in states of emergency or siege, or there will be no real change. What is not admissible is that they are subject to the Military Penal Code when 99 per cent of their actions are police and for offences not committed in such situations and which often result in files that would otherwise be disciplinary and could end up in a military prison, let us not forget. About your concept of security in prison institutions, we return to the same thing. Templates can be guaranteed, but what about the people inside? What about the prisoners? Don't we have a mental health problem in prison that is also a consequence of this? Have we not abandoned prison treatment, which is also a consequence of austerity policies and cuts? If we do not deal with the general issue, we are going to be very happy with certain trade unions, but we are not going to deal with the problem in prison institutions, which is addressed in all that we have raised in the amendment. With regard to the commitment to public safety, let's increase the staffing. You make there a number of requests for certain things and we will vote in favour, we will not oppose it even though we know it is partial. At the last point we have it very clear. It's very simple. I'm from Navarra and there's no CIE in Navarra. I didn't know Aluche's CIE. The first time I saw Aluche's CIE, when I was walking down the street, I told my partner Ione that I was out there: Look, it has muzzles. And he asked me, "What are the bozales?" Bozales are metal plates, which have already been removed from prison punishment cells, with holes that do not allow light or air to enter. That's the CIEs.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u139	Mr. Santos, you have to finish up.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u140	Therefore, for the many efforts we make, we will not be able to ensure that human rights are respected in the IECs. In addition, they are sites that do not fulfil the function for which they were initially conceived, but simply perform a punishment function. It could extend to many more specific issues, but at this point, unfortunately, we will vote against, because we cannot even assume that an attempt is being made to go through an acceptable place where human rights are violated in such a cruel and effective way, with deaths and results that we all know. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u141	The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. The guarantees of the rights and freedoms of citizens through the protection of persons and property and the maintenance of public order is one of the priorities of any public official of any Government, and in this matter, of course, this parliamentary group has a remarkable interest, especially for having the Basque Country this statutory competence, having updated the foral regime provided for in the first additional provision of the Constitution; competence of the Basque institutions for the protection of the rights and freedoms of Basque citizenship through their own police, the Ertzaintza, and for the implementation of state law in other matters, such as the prison legislation, and for the management of prisons located in the Basque Country; competence of the Basque authorities, which is so without prejudice, also by statutory mandate, of the police services reserved to the Forces and Bodies of State Security, such as the monitoring of coasts, borders, customs, aliens, passports and DNI, arms, etc., by virtue of their supra-Community and extra-Community coordination character; duality of the administration of the State as a function of the State and as a function of the Police. That is why we are pleased to have heard from the Minister of the Interior that in the area of his ministerial powers it is his will to try to reach the maximum consensus, to dialogue until exhaustion, to maintain a clear mandate of understanding and dialogue and to strive without limit for agreement and the permanent search for consensus. We welcome, Minister, your words and urge you to make them effective on the Security Board, meeting with the Security Council of the Basque Government, because there are many outstanding issues in need of much more repeated and in-depth coordination and dialogue than in the recent period. Sitting down to talk is the way to get better, as you said last week in this House. In the past we have had dialogue and agreements have been reached. You said it and I here ratify it to the extent that I was part of some of them. I think it is time to resume those principles, to resume the dialogue by which we agreed on the number of agents of Ertzaintza and its promotions and dialogue that has not occurred because the Government of the State opposed the regeneration of the Ertzaintza staff in the face of retirements and casualties through new promotions. Believe me, Minister, that this is a key issue to restore a broken trust and not only to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of Basque citizens, which is by the way the most important, but also to defend our historical rights, recognized and protected by the first additional provision of the Constitution and updated in the Statute of Gernika through its single article 17 and additional. We also request coordination at the Security Board for an honest debate on the adequacy of the police officers in charge in the Basque Country... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u143	Wait a minute, Mr. Legarda. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u144	Thank you, President. ... in accordance with the functions assigned to them by the constitutional bloc. This presence, in our opinion not numerically adjusted to its tasks, creates infinity of dysfunctions and discomfort. We also want to speak with you in confidence about this, and we trust that it will. Many other issues need to be addressed at the Basque Country Security Board in order to better respond to the protection of our citizens from international organized crime, both in their so-called common criminal manifestations and in the face of terrorism. Without exhausting, key issues are sharing strategic analysis and the participation of permanent liaisons in the CITCO, the Centre for Counter-Terrorism Intelligence and Organized Crime; improving the empowerment of Ertzaintza in Schengen; and many other coordination issues where now is neither the time nor the place to go into detail. Without prejudice to that, Minister, I believe that after almost 40 years have passed since the adoption of the Basque Statute, it is time to remedy the anomaly which implies that matters such as the management of prison institutions are not at the disposal of the Basque administrations. Minister, in one part of the State it is said that the law must be complied with and, in another, that it is not relevant. This is not a naïve issue for us. In another matter - and I am finalising, Mr President - the situation of foreign persons, both internal to the CIE and those returned to the border, we believe that it should be reconsidered. Finally, the motion tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group also addresses the problem raised by the so-called gag law, to which we join as with the rest of its paragraphs. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u146	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 26 March 2015, the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security was passed in Parliament, the common law and rightly renamed the Law gag. Let's look at some practical cases to find out what exactly has happened since then and what we're talking about. October 12, 2015. Celebration of the Day of Hispanicity, Montjuïc mountain, Barcelona. I quote: We have seen that rat, Jordi Borràs, around; I ask you all to give him a good hog if you see him. Pedro Chaparro, leader of National Democracy, philofascista concentration of Spanish Falange. Consequences: zero. March 3, 2016. Eibar, old helmet. Asier López, a Navarro journalist, photographed and published, along with the relevant news, images of a police act and detention in the street of a young man who had refused to appear in an oral hearing by the court of a highway in 2007 in protest of Segi's illegalization. Consequences: fine of 601 euros for the photojournalist. July 22, 2015. Celebrations of the Gay Pride Day, full of the Town Hall of Villaconejos, Madrid. I quote: It doesn't put in here. It doesn't put the gay flag here. Why? Man, you're imagining that a neo-Nazi group is coming here today and telling me to put the swastika flag on one of our parties. Adolfo Pacheco, mayor of the Popular Party of Villaconejos. Consequences: zero. May 4, 2016. Calle de la Rosa, neighborhood of La Viña, Cádiz. A local police patrol seized a box of fish from a street salesman. A neighbor records the moment when the seller explains to the agents that he is a parent and that that is the only thing he can offer to his children that month. The video ends on social media, ends on Facebook. Consequences: fine of 601 euros for the neighbor who records it. January 21, 2016. It's Federico's morning, radio program. I quote: It is a party that arouses class hatred to me. I mean, I see them and they make me want to make the French Revolution, without guillotine, because I'm against the throat. I'm getting out, I'm getting out. I mean, if I take the magnifying glass, I shoot. I mean, it's not too bad I'm not wearing it. Federico Jiménez Losantos, journalist, entrepreneur and radio announcer. Consequences: zero. September 22, 2016, Galician election campaign, central SER studies. I quote: The central government can't negotiate with the separatism gun on the table, that we didn't do with ETA and that was guns that were killing, and we got it right. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, candidate and president of the Xunta de Galicia. Consequences: zero. 20 February 2016. National Audience in Madrid. Mercè Alcocer, journalist of Catalunya Radio, skips an imaginary red line... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u147	Wait a minute, Mr. Rufián. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u148	He said he skipped an imaginary red line marked by the police so he could interview the defendants. Consequences: fine of 601 euros to the journalist. Any day of any month of any year, hundreds of people encased in a fence with knives in Ceuta and Melilla fleeing misery. The Ministry of the Interior asks the leadership of those who are against this to send them home. Consequences: they continue to rule, these people still face that fence. Any day of any month of any year, prisons full of people whose only crime is the oppression and misery that forced them to flee their countries. They call them CIE. Consequences: the CIEs remain open and these people remain just as poor but even more dignified. For all this, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left we will support for dignity, decency, memory and democratic sense the immediate repeal of this scoundrel, this purge, this law, and for the same decency and democratic sense we demand the immediate closure of the CIEs of shame. The fight goes on. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain the rights and freedoms of citizens are guaranteed. Here we have heard some spokesmen of the groups painting a black Spain, a Spain where little less than there is a police state that persecutes citizens for exercising their rights of assembly or demonstration. Nothing further from reality. Fortunately, in Spain we are neither in Cuba, nor in Venezuela, but in Spain the rights and freedoms of citizens are respected. [[Applauds]] With regard to the motion put forward by the Socialist Group, I would like to say that Mr Trevín's arguments have been little less than apocalyptic, somewhat trembling, and I believe that they are very unfair and persevering about a situation which is a confrontation and a search for relations with the previous leadership of the Ministry of the Interior. Let's take a step forward, let's forget personal confrontations and go solve problems and not generate them. I regret that the Socialist Group has not accepted a comprehensive proposal to agree on all the points of this motion, but we have laid the foundations that will allow us to vote in favour of points 3, 4 and 5 of the motion. In this debate, as I have already mentioned, some very large, very unnecessary and very unfortunate things have been said, but the People's Party - the minister said in his speech last Wednesday - has offered dialogue. Let us accept the dialogue of all political groups and walk to solve the problems that we can detect and not to have a minute of glory with a tremendous intervention that gives us a press headline. That doesn't get us anywhere. Citizens call for coherence in approaches and solutions to problems. Much has been said here that his motion is a basket, a totum revolution, and some of that has. I almost believe that it is an omnibus motion, where virtually all the demands of the Socialist Party or Mr Trevín have been put in place. Regardless of that, there are issues that we consider positive and that we will support. As I said, points 3, 4 and 5. But we cannot support the repeal of the Citizens' Security Act. You well know that, if that law is repealed, Spain runs out of security law when we have a level 4 terrorist risk. That would be irresponsible, you know. Let us talk about problems of the law and seek solutions, but not the repeal, because it is also a law that guarantees, say what you say and the slogan you want to put forward. With regard to the reform of the Military Penal Code, we regret that it has not accepted our negotiating proposal. We are being given an approach where we do not say how and what we want to reform. The People's Party is therefore going to support the continuation of the Military Penal Code as drafted, and we will try, because we believe it is so drafted, to apply to the Civil Guard in military functions only and not in police functions. We can talk about it and I think it is good that we can do it. The People's Group will support the expansion of staff in Prisons, Civil Guard and Police because it is necessary and because it is already being implemented. The People's Party is going to support a strategic plan that will improve the excellent fight against theft in homes and farms. The Roca teams are being quite successful and we have to recognize it. We will also try to improve with a package of measures the fight against road accident, which concerns us all. We also want improvement in the CIEs. The CIEs in Spain are already democratically managed, respecting all rights. Spanish legislation is the most tolerant in the whole of the European Union. In Spain you cannot stay more than two months in the CIE. European legislation is six months. In Italy, with a socialist government, internment can reach four months. Don't tell us the People's Party has people in prison. And there is always, from the time a foreigner enters a detention centre until, throughout the process, a judicial guarantee of his rights. Therefore, dialogue, let us move forward on reasonable proposals and the People's Party has the hand to negotiate a state security policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u151	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Trevín Lombán whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u152	Madam President, I wanted to thank all the groups for their efforts. Many amendments have been tabled. It's almost impossible to marry them. We do not accept any and keep the text of the motion as it stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u153	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, on the situation of energy poverty in which more than five million people live in our country, particularly in the protection measures envisaged by the Government of Spain for the EESC in the violation of rights. [[File number 173/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u154	It is now appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the situation of energy poverty in which more than five million people live in our country, especially in the protection measures envisaged by the Government of Spain for the cessation of the violation of rights. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u155	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that, on the one hand, it is an honour for me to present this proposal and, on the other, it is a pain; it is a pain because in this House we are talking about poverty again. Firstly, in order to frame it, we have to say that we have to talk about poverty without surnames. We are going to continue to claim that unnamed poverty is a violation of article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and that that must be the approach that any Democrat must take to address these kinds of issues. There are poverty with surnames such as child poverty, such as severe poverty, which today condemns more than 40,000 people in our country to live on the streets in a situation of absolute emergency. Today it is up to us to talk about energy poverty, about poverty that affects, according to statistics, between five and seven million people; people who cannot access a basic and fundamental good in order to live: supplies. That again is not something that only requires our goodwill, that requires our compassion; what it requires is that this country, that our State comply with its international human rights obligations. And not only article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but general comment 4 of the UN Committee on Human Rights. Talking about energy poverty is also talking about victims who lose their lives as a result of this problem. Depending on the studies - and unfortunately none of them is from a Spanish public institution paid for by the Spanish, but they are from the Association of Environmental Sciences or the United Nations that do calculations - in our country they lose their lives between seven and ten thousand people due to ailments resulting from energy poverty. We could have asked for a minute of silence for the victims in this House, but we would be a week without saying a word. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u156	One second, Mr. Mayoral. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u157	I would like to thank the civil society organisations - and I believe that, moreover, from the public institutions, we owe them a debt - that while the institutions were looking elsewhere, associations, groups, collectives, the Alliance against Energy Poverty, the Mortgage Platform, Facula, many social organizations, have been raising this as a central issue, a State issue that needs to be addressed. We must be grateful that all these social organizations have agreed and we have to recognize that the main issues contained in this motion are not from União Podemos, they are not from En Comú Podemos or from En Marea, they are not even from all the political formations that we have been able to sign and that we agree on this consensus, but they are the result of the work and the struggle of civil society organizations. We hope that those claims contained in the manifesto 'No more light cuts' will also be contained in this motion. That was our will. To that extent, we must thank the will of many groups in this House, virtually all of them, who have had the will to try to reach a consensus. Finally, we did not achieve this with the People's Party, which was clear from the outset that the only policy aimed at addressing the issue of energy poverty was the so-called "social bonus", which has been an absolute failure; a failure that has not been able to cover the population and has been crushed by two Supreme Court rulings for using a rather unhelpful legislative technique. I would like to remind the Minister - unfortunately he is not here today - that the other day he was telling us that the competent autonomous communities are in this area, that they cannot blow and sip at the same time; that the Catalan legislative measures proposed to limit the cuts cannot be used, and at the same time that they do not want to take action from the state level. [[Applauds]] All right, with this motion we propose to break the glass ceiling and put our country in line with our international human rights obligations. As the resolutions of the United Nations Assembly say, the States, that is, those who are here and all the institutions, are obliged to fulfil and enforce human rights, and from this rostrum I would like to add that the groups, too, and among the groups, must include the energy companies of our country. I want to use this rostrum to say that they are systematically violating human rights in our country by cutting vulnerable populations. [[Applauds]] We have reached an agreement that can be useful to move forward, which is a pronouncement to put an end to the cuts to the vulnerable population, which is a pronouncement that can be useful to move forward in legislative mechanisms that allow us to access a social and progressive tariff that limits the tax route to a commodity of first necessity, such as energy, that is able to liquidate once and for all the credits for transition to competition and we ask again for a public audit, and when we talk about a public audit, let us not trap the lonely. We want to know how much it costs to generate energy, because energy companies have been privatized here when they were everyone's assets. How much does it cost to get the kilowatts out? How much does energy cost? Citizenship has the right to know. I want to say that this is the result of the effort of all political groups, and all spokesmen have the motion, which I believe is important. But what we do here today is just a starting point. Let us not think and let us not tell the citizens that we have solved the problem; the problem is still out there, it costs lives and suffering to the popular sectors of our country. This is a commitment to the people, a commitment to social organizations that are mobilized on 21 December in defence of human rights, consumer organizations, environmental organizations, housing rights organizations, trade union organizations; a wide range of social organizations that also have the signature of thousands and thousands of citizens who are willing to defend human rights in our country. Honestly, we have to meet our obligations; we're not doing anyone a favor, we're just starting a task today. We hope that just as we have endeavoured to move this motion forward, we will be able to live up to the needs of our people, to agree to put an end to the violations of rights in this area, to make energy accessible to the whole population and to tell the electricians that the law of the West is over in our country, because there is popular sovereignty and there is a Parliament that will not allow them to do what they want with our people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u158	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Certainly, the initiative that Mr Mayoral and Mrs Martín have defended is timely these days, and we share with your ladies and gentlemen that a decent society, a good society, cannot afford what we have lived through these years, which is that the weakest groups in society do not have guaranteed basic supplies of electricity, water and gas. And Mr Mayoral was right when he said that what he failed was the social bonus; the public policy instrument that had to alleviate those situations has not worked. This has led the Parliament of my country to recently promote various legislative initiatives to try to alleviate this situation, with the limits deriving from the current level of competence of the Parliament of Catalonia to address these issues and which has always been faced - with the exception of the last legislation adopted by the Parliament - with the Government of the State. Indeed, almost a week ago we had a meeting with the Government's Minister of Energy and we were surprised by all that defense that made of the autonomous competences in this matter. The minister, the People's Party government, should have avoided the constant resources to the decisions that were taken in Parliament in order to avoid such situations of injustice and to make up for the ineffectiveness of the State's action. Welcome, therefore, the initiative, to the extent that it allows us to address from Congress a problem that can have a response in the Catalan sphere - and that in part has - but that, without an effective response in the state sphere, we will not solve. And being a decent and good society demands that we not be indifferent to the poverty suffered by certain citizens. The initiative of Mr Mayoral and Mrs Martín will therefore count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Good night, again. In the past legislature it was completely impossible to reach any reasonable agreement to prevent the consequences of the energy counter-reform undertaken enthusiastically by the past executive. It was impossible to reach any agreement on matters as elementary as the rationalization of the energy sector, such as the protection of users, especially the most vulnerable, and the need to make the tariff system transparent. That was completely impossible. All this happens in a state where energy companies are probably the ones that get the most benefits from the whole of the European Union and where we have the rates that are the fourths of the whole European Union, a harmful association that shows that something is not working well. We have put forward as active and passive that it is absolutely necessary to make a rigorous audit of the Spanish electricity sector and the reasons are very simple. It is completely impossible to understand how the energy mix in this country has installed much more capacity than it really needs and yet here we pay among all what is needed and what is not needed, and at costs that we do not know very well what they are. That is, in the end what we have is a tariff opacity of such magnitude that in order to understand the electric bill you have to take several centramins - in case you like it well - or devote yourself to transcendental meditation. This is an issue that has to end because it becomes a manifest injustice for the most vulnerable. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u162	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Candela Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I'd like to do a math. There has been talk of Dani Rodrik here, specifically Mr Roldán has quoted Dani Rodrik as posing the famous trilemma between democracy, national sovereignty and economic globalization, of which two must be chosen. I want to remind you that Rodrik chooses democracy and chooses sovereignty to help intelligent globalization. This is radically different from what you have said and I say it to you so that, in addition to quoting, you read and do not pass as your political leader. [[Applauds]] I would like to start by telling the Minister of Energy a question. Last week he said two key things that reveal the special opacity that exists with regard to the electricity system and the setting of prices that affect the problem that we are discussing here, which is energy poverty. Firstly, Mr Nadal said that there is an audit of all costs. Well, there are two options: either he's lying or he's hiding the audit from us. I'll give you some data. The National Energy Commission, in a 2008 report, and the former presidents of the Spanish Electricity Network, certify that prices in Spain are totally inflated by the disorbited benefits of hydroelectric and nuclear power, with profit rates of between 180 and 227%. I don't know if you know him or not. Secondly, an aspect that particularly affects my land. The minister said that photovoltaic energy is now profitable and regretted that we have lost the know-how. What you want me to say, I do not think there is any more petty assertion when it was the governments of the People's Party that ruined the thousands of investors who developed this energy. I'm done. What we are talking about here is the main rentist element that impedes the good development of this country and condemns energy poverty to millions of people. That's got a name and it's electric oligopoly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are now debating a motion by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea following an urgent appeal to the Government of Spain on the situation of energy poverty in which more than five million people live in the State. To remedy this situation, a number of measures are proposed. The first thing we have to say from the Basque Parliamentary Group is that solidarity with the most disadvantaged is one of the identity signs of the Basque Nationalist Party, which has always been a party of values, one of them being social cohesion. We have always argued that a society with economic development but without social cohesion is not desirable but not sustainable. That is why we advocate and practice there where we govern a model of cohesive society, sustainable and advanced social policies, a society developed economically and socially cohesive, without social fractures, because through them society is diluted, because it is people that matter. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u166	One second, Mr. Legarda. Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. The speaker is not heard. Go ahead, Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u167	Finally, in these first considerations, we would also like to recall that the leading countries in competitiveness and human development are highly decentralized countries, countries with regions with their own institutional frameworks, countries with regions, with differentiated and stable regional policies and strategies, also on social issues such as the one we are now dealing with. For us, self-government means a model of essential public services, a model with values that seeks to improve the standard of living of society by guaranteeing a threshold of dignity to people. For us self-government means a developed, pluralized, cohesive country. From this perspective of self-government, we must analyse the motion before us. In this regard, we have no objection to the fact that the party that may refer to the social bonus provided for in Law 24/2013 of the Electrical Sector ceases to be temporarily supported in the tenth transitional provision of that Law and is definitively supported by a more stable regulation to care for vulnerable domestic consumers in their first residence, as provided for in Article 45 of this Law of the Electrical Sector, and preferably taking into account their income levels. This social bonus has been built on the competences of the State to establish the basis of energy policy, thus establishing public service obligations for marketers, as provided for in Directive 2009/72 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009. We don't have to say anything. A different question is that of the other points of the motion which relate to the exclusive competence of the Basque Country and other autonomous communities in the field of social assistance and policies. We are referring to those people with a much more severe vulnerability than those who are treated with the social bonus. Attention to these people is already a matter of social and competition policy, in our case in the Basque Country, and with regard to them we develop public policies and strategies of our own. We defend a welfare state with our own voice, such as the leading countries in competitiveness, well-being and human development, and we devote a large part of our resources to this, to a greater extent than anywhere else in the state. In short, with regard to domestic consumers with very high energy vulnerability, we consider that it is the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and others and that this House should not approve any motion that would condition the autonomous welfare public policies. Finally, with regard to the text of the motion we are debating, a number of amendments have been made concerning the electricity system and the companies producing, distributing and marketing. We're waiting for your luck. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u168	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u169	Good night, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting in favour of the proposal, to which we have tabled some amendments which we believe complement the proposal. Energy poverty, poverty and energy. Let me start with the second, and I'll make a statement. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u170	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats and, above all, remain silent. There's still an hour left for plenary. It is impossible to listen to those who speak because of the murmuring that is taking place in the House. Please continue, Your Honor. I hope this is the last time I have to keep quiet tonight.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will, as I said, make a statement: energy is neither created nor destroyed, it is only charged. Spanish electricity companies are characterized by their oligopolistic practice and, worth redundancy, control regulatory control; also, how not, they have a decisive influence on much of the media. The result is that they achieve stratospheric benefits that are not similar to those obtained by companies in the rest of the economic fabric. A couple of weeks ago, Pimec, the employers' association of small and medium-sized enterprises in Catalonia, denounced the blatant level of profits of electricity companies, since in 2015 they obtained a net profit of 13,2. It contrasts with the benefits of SMEs, which in the same period has been 1.2. In other words, the companies that export, the companies that give work have eleven times less profits than the electric ones. Electrics can do what they do for government protection and thanks to the hidden rescue that all citizens are doing every day, without which electrics would be in a state of bankruptcy if they strictly complied with market rules. The rescue has been more subtle than that of the banks. The PP government decided to do so through the price increase, through the receipt we pay each month, 43% more. Most of the amount of the light receipts have multiplied by two. Over the years, society has been accumulating a deep rage against power companies, with every reason. However, if we are talking about energy poverty, if we are talking about saving, this means that it is not sustainable with bonds and receipts payments, something necessary as an emergency measure, but after immediate urgency what we have to do, because we are legislators and we have our responsibility, is to solve the poverty of the family, of all the families that are in these conditions, giving them an amount that they can meet all their needs, also energy. Because the solution already exists and solves the root problems. Electrics must be controlled differently, lowering the 43 % increase in the receipt, making them responsible, like the other companies, for their investments and mistakes and implementing a policy that allows the best prices on the market by favouring new forms of business, such as the Som Energia cooperative. Now more than ever, we must find a solution to generate jobs, so that people live in dignity, so that the whole spectrum of workers can earn a living, and in this society and at this moment it is our responsibility. We can't leave the electrics with no responsibilities. And what better way to end my intervention, which has been based on the fight against poverty and against the powerful - or on which the powerful, at least, are accountable - than to quote Marcos Ana, recently deceased, to whom we owe a republic. I will not ask for a minute of silence, but less than a minute to listen to a poem that resonates in this Chamber. He's coming for you! I've chosen one that moves me, because if you don't move things, you don't move. My home and my heart: If I go out one day to life / my home will have no keys: / always open, like the sea, / sun and air. / Who enter the night and the day, / and the blue rain, the afternoon, / the red bread of the dawn; / the moon, my sweet lover. / That friendship does not stop / your steps on my thresholds, / nor the swallow flight, / nor love your lips. No one. / My home and my heart / never closed: that pass / birds, friends, / sun and air. Poetry and the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u172	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u173	Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. President, I have to start my speech as I also started the question to the Minister the other day: one in every ten households in this country is in a vulnerable situation, that is, they cannot bear the burden even of essential services. Also the other day I commented that there is a European regulation, 2009/72 and 2009/73, which obliges Member States to regulate in this area. As I also recalled the other day, Spain has not done its duties and has not regulated since 2009. So that they do not say that nothing has been done, there was a real decree, 13/2012, but that it was a little image-washing because it did not include how to catalogue people who were at risk of vulnerability, nor did it include how to alleviate this situation, and of course it did not say what mechanisms were to be applied, nor did it guarantee that cuts could not be made. Your honors must be reminded today - although almost everyone knows it - that any electricity and energy company can legally cut if it has a accumulated debt of six months; then it will enter the code of good practice if it wants to consult or not, but the law today says that. Last week, at the request of the minister, we met all the energy spokesmen with him and we could draw positive connotations because we have more in common in this matter all the political parties that are represented in this House than we could imagine, which I think is good news, especially because we will have to draw a law forward and we will all be there. There is a need to seek common ground and to provide solutions to the problems faced by citizens. For these reasons, we have amended the motion put forward by the Podemos party in the sense that it is necessary to establish mechanisms to ensure that no vulnerable home can cut off essential services without prior consultation with social services, and especially if we are in a season of risk, such as the winter season. We have also amended it by saying that it is necessary to establish a fluid conversation with the autonomous communities, because if we deal with the case of Reus, the Administration has made the protocols impossible to apply because they have ended up avoiding responsibilities and in the end the law does not apply, things cannot be applied as they are and we end up with dramatic situations that we could precisely avoid. That is why we need to coordinate all of us, not only the Government but also the opposition, as well as the administrations, the autonomous communities and all the actors involved in this. We have also amended the need to really define who should be given that social bonus. For us, for Citizens, it is essential that the priority be the income criterion and then, of course, based on the income criterion, that the number of people in the family be attenuated, if there are dependent people in that household, if there are children, if there are people at risk. At the end of the matter is that the social bonus should reach those who need it, because today we all know it, ladies and gentlemen, as the income criterion is not included, there are families who accept the social bonus that would not have to benefit from it, and surely we all know cases. We have also asked that the gas - we said the other day - be able to accept that social bonus; that is, that the social bonus not only enters electricity but also applies to gas. We have also amended the need to establish mechanisms to end such speculation in energy prices. I would like to recall data I gave the other day of the rise of energy, such as gas, 22%; light, 34%; butane, 23% and water, 8.5%. That is why we have proposed - and it is included in the agreement we signed with both the Socialist Party and the People's Party - that a cost audit be carried out, but not only to the generation, but to distribution and also to transport. We need to know how much we cost what we pay, we also need to evaluate and audit what we are paying on the electric bill, because in the end I believe that none of you, ladies and gentlemen, or perhaps some of you who could count your fingers in one hand, could say what we are paying on the compendium of what the electric bill adds. It is also essential for us to establish an indicator - and we all agreed on that - of social vulnerability that collects and publicizes all information from households that are affected by supply costs. It is also necessary to assess energy efficiency and availability measures. Betting on energy efficiency is betting on a reduction in consumption, and it is essential to promote rehabilitation plans for households in vulnerable energy efficiency situations. We have more points in common than we have against. It is true that in the negotiation of the transaction there were points on which we differed, on which we did not agree at all, but we believe that it is a motion and I trust that in the law we will reach an agreement on each of the points. We will support this initiative even if we have not signed that transactional, but what is clear today is that in the process of law we will come to common ground and move it forward. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u174	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Just over two years ago, I defended here on behalf of the Socialist Group a proposal for a law on the protection of vulnerable consumers and against energy poverty. Then the parliamentary majority voted against that initiative, but today's reality has changed, the majority game is different and yet the Government has vetoed the same bill we tabled in July. Ladies and gentlemen, this Congress has talked about energy poverty before the 11th parliamentary term, however far it may seem impossible to some. On energy poverty strikes enter into many details, since all citizens - people, as the proponent group likes to say - already know very well what we are talking about when we refer to it. I would sum it up by saying that it is poverty suffered by those families who, either cannot keep their home at an adequate temperature during the winter because they do not know whether they will be able to cope with the payment of the bill, or - which is worse - those families who do not even turn on the heating because they fear that they will cut off their supply. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 5 million people in this country are unable to keep their homes at the right temperature in the cold months, 5 million people who are exposed to a risk added to their health. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, as it has demonstrated through the defence of multiple initiatives in this legislature and in the two previous legislatures, has as its priority the elimination of inequality, and one of the most bitter and damaging faces of inequality for many families with young children, for many elderly people living alone, is poverty caused by lack of access to a basic energy supply that should be considered a commodity of first necessity. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment that broadens and improves the text of the motion proposed by the United States We call for immediate regulation of what energy poverty is, what vulnerable consumers are called, and what are the minimum subsistence services, as set out in Directive 2009/72, of the internal electricity market. We believe that it is essential to give a winter truce between November and March, within the framework of the competence of the Ministry of Energy. We agree with most of the groups represented here and even with the Government on the urgency of reforming the social bonus so that it actually reaches the families that need it and to the extent that each of these families needs it; that is, depending on the income of the households: who has less, more help and, who has more, less help. Also ensure that it is not domestic consumers who bear the cost, i.e. to solve the problem of financing the social bonus that the Government has on the table at the moment. On the other hand, the Socialist Group knows that this situation of energy poverty is the result of a weak and unjust energy model and the implementation of insensitive austerity policies with the most vulnerable people. That is why we advocate a major reform of the energy model after an audit of the costs of the system and in which the costs of transition to competition are definitively settled. However, Unido Podemos proposes a measure that clearly, from our point of view, represents a step backwards in fiscal redistribution. It proposes to apply a reduction of VAT on the bill of light, and this would not really result in that redistribution that we always advocate because it would benefit the most those who consume it, in addition to lowering the VAT on electricity would break with the idea of environmental taxation. Socialists advocate an environmental imposition to promote energy efficiency, that is, to reduce the excessive consumption we know there is, as long as energy is cheaper. We do not agree with that proposal as it stands, although we have negotiated it and it has been somewhat more adapted to what we were asking for, but that is not exactly what we have asked of the proposing group. Our intention is to take advantage of the parliamentary force resulting from the outcome of the ballot boxes in order to put an end to a very serious problem, which will only be solved with the political will of the Government fundamentally, but also with the will of all the groups that make up this House. That is why the Socialist Group will vote in favour of the compromise proposed by the proposing group, despite the fact that it does not share some issues and is also part of the drafting of this initiative. All I have to say to the United Group is that we may today be adopting the bill that the Socialists put forward at the time if they had chosen to have a left-wing government in this country instead of maintaining the status quo that has led us to the greatest inequality in democratic history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, who in this House does not want to reduce the number of 5 million people who have problems paying household bills? Who in this House doesn't want to improve the social bonus? Who in this House does not want to reduce the number of people who suffer from severe vulnerability in access to electricity? Who? This is not a matter for rallies or for shouting, but for working among all. This legislature obliges dialogue, consensus, agreement, which must be the working tool of this legislature, ladies and gentlemen, and I look at you, the proponents, because I think you must reset your speech and your hard drive. This goes from something else; it goes from work, effort, collaboration. Recently, last 24 November, the Minister of Energy invited all the parliamentary groups to seek a solution to a problem that is serious and that is what we all understand. Today, for example, the United Parliamentary Group Podemos has signed a compromise amendment with all groups. He has spoken to everyone less with us and delivered the compromise amendment to us, something that had never happened in this House, out of time, without giving us time to analyse it. Still, because what we say we preach, we have analyzed his text to give him an answer. There are things we agree on and things we do not, so we will abstain, but I would like to explain to you why there are things we do not. We believe that there are many points in this initiative that are really impossible to implement. You, for example, raise the need for a tariff and that is prohibited by a directive of the European Union. They want to remove competences from the autonomous communities; a group called "Unido Podemos-En Comú-En Marea" wants to retreat and retreat the autonomous realm. They talk about the costs of transition to competition and say that, in fact, they have to be recovered. They forget that it is the People's Party, the government of Mariano Rajoy, who has demanded from the European Union the return of these 3.5 billion euros to try to make them considered state aid. They talk about the need to establish an audit. How do you think the tariff deficit has been reduced? How has it been achieved that it stops growing and that it does not reach beyond the EUR 26 billion it reached in 2011? How do you think this has been done? How do you think the costs have been calculated? Well, with an audit. Do you know how much the tariff deficit would have been in 2012 alone if we hadn't done that audit, if we hadn't done the electricity reform? EUR 10 billion, 1% of GDP, ladies and gentlemen. Among many things, you also talk about VAT and amending it, and you know it well, because there are economists in your ranks, that VAT is a harmonised tax and that this cannot be presented or approved. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a number of amendments in the line of working together and seeking a solution to the problem of the social bonus. We believe that its funding must be guaranteed, that the ruling of the Supreme Court that hangs over us must be ensured that neither consumers nor budgets are forced to face up to this EUR 500 million in the 2014-2015 financial year. We want to improve the information available to the consumer, and we have also invited them to do so. It seems to us very important that the social bonus is linked to income because it will make it more efficient and that among all of us we seek to strengthen and improve the cases of severe vulnerability, such as the one that brings up last Wednesday's inquiry. And basically coordination with the autonomous communities, which are ultimately competent in social policies. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about energy poverty, what we should be looking for in this house is to put an end to poverty. Poverty ends when wealth appears and drives. Poverty/richness. Wealth brings prosperity and employment, and that is the sound economic policy that this Government is and will continue to pursue. A policy that brought with it the reduction between 2013 and 2016 of 617,000 unemployed. An economic policy that has managed to create 1,662,000 jobs between 2013 and 2016. In short, an economic policy that yearns to put an end to poverty and that in no way seeks demagoguery, but effort and work, and that this House is indeed an efficient instrument to ensure the well-being of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u178	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Perales whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u179	The transaction in its terms, as presented in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u180	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FISCAL FRAUD AND EVALUATION AND, MORE IN CONCRETE, ON THE MEASURES TAKEN TO GUARANTEE THOSE LIABILITIES BENEFITED BY THE 2012 FISCAL REGULARIZATION, MORE CONCERNED AS 'FISCAL AMNISTRY', THEY MUST EFFECTIVELY AT THE TYPE OF 10 % EXPRESSED IN THE LAW. [[File number 173/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u181	We then move on to the motion following urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the government's policy to combat tax evasion and evasion, and more specifically on the measures taken to ensure that taxable persons benefiting from fiscal regularisation in 2012, better known as the tax amnesty, effectively tax the 10% rate expressly provided for in the law. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking again today about the 2012 tax amnesty, which was adopted at a time perhaps more complicated than that of today, when taxes were massively raised to the honest taxpayers who already paid them and the defrauders were forgiven their taxes. A tax amnesty is always a bad idea, but this, in addition to being a bad idea and being extremely unfair, was a frankly cumbersome process in which ultimately the defrauding taxpayers who welcomed did not pay the 10% that was planned, but ended up paying less than 3%. In Citizens we are very concerned about this issue, because it seems to us that before we demand the first euro from honest taxpayers, through tax increases or through cuts in the welfare state, we should apply the law - the whole law, even a law as favourable as that of the tax amnesty - to the fraudsters who welcomed them. This Tax Amnesty Act expressly stated that these taxpayers were required to pay 10% of the amount of the acquisition value of the property. According to Mr Montoro, taxpayers who came up with EUR 40 billion were welcomed, and there is only EUR 1,193 million in cash right now. In the previous parliamentary term we reached an agreement with the Socialist Party, and later we also did so with the People's Party so that these defrauding taxpayers actually paid 10% expressly provided for in the rule. For the follow-up of this process we asked Minister Montoro; and we asked him urgently because we thought the situation was urgent. We had a stock exchange of localized defrauding taxpayers who had failed to meet their tax obligations. We already took this to the Finance Committee in the previous parliamentary term and to the plenary on 27 September, and we all agreed on a number of things. Now, after Minister Montoro's appearance and by virtue of the answers he gave us and a few letters he issued, we proceed to update the process. With regard to the letters, regardless of legal considerations and what is thought about the prescription, we believe that these letters without acknowledgement of receipt obviously do not interrupt the prescription and do not initiate the verification procedure necessary for the defrauding taxpayers to be required by the Administration to pay them what they have to pay. Besides, this letter that was sent is quite curious. Not only does he carry a letter that says a number of things, but he also carries a non-citizens' bill that we all approve here, almost unanimously. I do not know if this is going to get fashionable and if the next time a gentleman gets a parallel VAT you will find a logo of a seagull, a fist and a flower or whatever of the party that in its day approved these rules. [[Applauds]] In other words, this does not seem like a serious system to depoliticize the Tax Agency and to make it clear to taxpayers that the taxes they are required to pay contribute to financing public spending in general, and it is not an occurrence of a minister who one day devotes himself to sending letters. What we are proposing in the first place is an issue that has been reached by consensus of all political groups, and is that an urgent review should be carried out so that these defrauding taxpayers do not pay the 3% they paid and pay 10% on the amount paid out. Secondly, there is a report dated 27 June 2012 that stated that statements by the tax amnesty were not verifiable. This cannot be, this is to let taxpayers do whatever they want and not let the inspectors work. We therefore take this second point. Thirdly, if inspection checks are actually initiated that interrupt the prescription, do not send letters without acknowledgement of receipt. Then put on whatever logos you want, but this seems relevant to us. We believe that this should have been done before 30 November, before four years had elapsed since the end of the voluntary deadline for declaration. Here Minister Montoro said that tax amnesty declarations, that 10% payment obligation, never prescribed. We don't know what it's based on. We therefore urge you to request legal reports, to provide Congress with legal reports, because things do not prescribe when the minister says so, nor when I say it, nor when third people say it, but when the laws say it, and we must make a law-abiding interpretation. In this regard, if the Minister is right and these inspections cannot be started before 30 November, as the Minister said he was going to promote an anti-fraud plan, we ask him to include in that plan those taxpayers who received the tax amnesty who did not pay 10%. Finally, we ask the Minister that in the Tax Agency, in cases where there are suspicions of money laundering, that some defrauding taxpayers have benefited from the declaration of tax amnesty in order to reintroduce funds from corruption or other crimes, this is in itself a crime of money laundering being brought to the attention of the courts. Here the Parliamentary Group We can tell us that before they prescribe. We put it urgently, but, well, we admitted it. He also says that we had not included - and it is a contribution that the minister has already collected - that the tax agency should be given more resources and not less resources to have an anti-fraud plan that is ambitious enough. Indeed with this motion we want to listen to Mr Montoro and look to the future, but demanding those debts that they did not pay and that in our opinion were illegally forgiven tax fraudsters, because - we repeat - that is the only way to look to the future towards a better welfare society, to fight more, better and more effectively against tax fraud. For that it is absolutely essential that when we have localized fraudsters, when we know that they have not fulfilled their obligations and send them letters, we go on to demand these amounts that have defrauded us all. It seems to us that this is part of the commitment to Citizens, but it is also a commitment to this House, to the Members themselves, to the Minister of the People's Party who voted for it, and to all the Spaniards who fulfil their fiscal obligations properly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u183	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u184	Thank you, President. Good night. As you can see, I'm not Mr. Garzón. 2012 was one of the worst years of the crisis, with a poverty risk rate of 22% - similar to today's -, unemployment of more than 25%, 500,000 evictions in the years of crisis - 16% more that the previous year -, a 12.3% poor working population - similar to today's -, year of deep cuts in health, education, social services. What did the People's Party government do? For he made the labor reform and a tax amnesty that consists in forgiving those who disappoint, the richest people, the tax money that should be used to deal with the social emergency and avoid cuts. Beneficiaries: from Bárcenas to Rato, passing through the Pujol family or people with the surname Borbón. Damaged: the majority of the country's citizens. Spain had and has a serious problem of tax fraud and a submerged economy, which is equivalent to 24% of GDP. We have less than half of the resources available to combat tax fraud on average by OECD countries. Were there any plans to increase the staff of the Tax Agency to combat this fraud? No, the agency's strength has fallen by 4,000 in recent years. Were there any plans to increase the fiscal awareness of citizenship? No, they sent a message to the defrauders that was: defrauding in Spain is cheap, only 3%, a figure for some reason recurring. Tax amnesties create a totally counterproductive moral risk, reduce the value of tax liability and fear of tax evasion - as the European Commission has said - and constitute an aggravation for citizens who pay their taxes, because most of the fraud is not done by the workers, the self-employed or the SMEs, by the big fortunes and the big business groups. The amnesty was also a failure because it did not raise the forecast - EUR 1.193 million instead of the forecasted 2,500 - and it seemed to us and we find it very serious to allow the declaration of money in cash with the possibility of money laundering that this implies. The conclusion is that between the mechanisms of tax evasion and avoidance and the fiscal policy of the People's Party being rich in this country really comes out very cheap. The purpose of this motion is not new. Indeed, on 27 September, they submitted a similar non-law proposal. What are the underlying objectives? I believe that citizens rely little on the government and Mr Montoro, because in fact this is in the investment agreement they both have. What is the underlying objective of this motion? Increase the collection by 2.8 billion by reviewing the beneficiaries of the 2012 tax amnesty. It would certainly already have value, but Citizens' goal is also another: to square the numbers of the agreement with the People's Party, because they will probably have to eat the spending ceiling and budgets with cuts. That's the point. That is where that debate comes from. You don't trust Mr. Montoro. Neither do we. The minister says that there is no expiration, that there is no prescription, but you and we want to see the legal reports on which it is based. But if they want their numbers to be squared, another fiscal policy is needed to increase income and bring us closer to the European average of fiscal pressure. We are 8 points below the euro area. If you want to square the numbers you push a real comprehensive plan to fight tax fraud. If they want to square the numbers they invest in the Tax Agency, increasing the staff and resources to fight fraud. It cannot be that 80% of resources are devoted to investigating small, self-employed and working people, while 72% of fraud is done by large fortunes and large enterprises. We have tabled different amendments. I would particularly like to refer to one. It is necessary to draw up a comprehensive plan to combat tax fraud, which, among other issues, increases the tax agency's human resources. It cannot be that in Spain the ratio of staff of the agency per inhabitant is 1,958 when France has one per 942 inhabitants. It can't be. We share much of what the Citizens' motion says and - I tell you - also the skepticism with which you have explained it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u185	Thank you very much. I want to tell Mr Vendrell Gardañes that he was called Mr Garzón because his group had communicated it to us in that way. Thank you so much. Mr López Milla has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fiscal amnesty that the Spanish Government approved in 2012 is true, it is not the only one that has been made in our recent democratic history, but it is the only one that has been made at the same time that virtually all taxes, all taxes and all public prices were raised. The same was true of the withdrawal of benefits for the unemployed, the reduction of scholarships, the promotion of wage cuts and the deterioration of workers'working conditions, the reduction of health expenditure and the abandonment of many dependents. Many Spanish and Spanish have not understood that while sacrifices were required, while their expectations for the future deteriorated, the outflow of hidden capital would be facilitated without requiring more than a small levy, much lower even than initially approved, by de facto lowering from the initial 10 % to less than 3 % the effective rate applicable by means of a simple report from the Directorate-General for Taxes. And who benefited from this? Thousands of defrauders, and among them some who may have raised up capital obtained through criminal activities. People like Mr Bárcenas, such as Mr Granados or Mr Rato, who have mocked so many men and women who have been vapulated by the crisis and abandoned by government policies over the past few years. It is true that, both the need to preserve legal certainty and the mere passage of time, prevent the possibility of recovering all the money that these fraudsters have stopped paying, but it is still possible to recover - as has been said - a part, the equivalent of the difference between the 10% provided for in the Royal Decree-Law and the discount rate below the 3% subsequently established. That is why we are going to support this motion, provided that at least the terms in which it has been tabled are voted on, because we believe that the steps to be taken by the Government to ensure the collection of at least that 10% are properly defined. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has fought against the tax amnesty from the very beginning, even before the Constitutional Court, where it is pending. Since the first day he has warned about its consequences, he has shown that he could be covering up the outflow of resources obtained through criminal activities, and he has denounced that people who have had very important responsibilities in the People's Party and even the spouse of a minister, a member of the Government - who did not abstain when the decision was taken - have benefited from this tax amnesty. And today we want to contribute to the motion by means of an amendment which reflects the need for the Spanish Government to push for timely legislative changes so that the list of fraudsters can be made public, and let us finally know the relationship of people who have benefited from this tax amnesty. In our amendment, we also urge the Government to review the list of tax havens by re-enlisting those States that do not cooperate effectively with the Spanish tax administration, because we are not only concerned about the capitals that may have been hidden from the tax system in the past, but also about the need to raise obstacles to preventing them from continuing to hide. And if there are countries such as Panama, for example, that in their day they could be excluded from that list of tax havens, but today they are not cooperating as they should, they must again be included in the list acting always within the framework of decisions taken in the European Union. We are indeed concerned about the possibility of statute of limitations, as the motion's proposer has argued; a statute of limitations that would take place tomorrow, 30 November, and although the minister has denied it, he has spoken of legal arguments that would deny the possibility of statute of limitations, without giving a single explanation or teaching a single legal argument, the fact that a notice has been sent to the taxpayers concerned announcing that such a statute of limitations does nothing more than reaffirm our concern, because we understand that it is logically not enough to have a simple letter of information, but that it should be informed in a legally valid way by initiating a formal verification procedure, and this is not done with a mere letter of information without acknowledgement of receipt, which has no legal effect. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are afraid is that in the end Mr Montoro is letting the deadlines pass, the deadlines expire, to have the perfect excuse to do nothing. And it will not be out of indolence, it will not be out of disdain; it will be in order to achieve a premeditated goal, a goal that has been perfectly planned since the day on which this tax amnesty was approved, which is to forgive almost 3 billion euros to a very small number of taxpayers; some of them perhaps former client of Mr Montoro at another time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u187	Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the content of the motion, I would like to make a couple of points: we must preach, but we must also give wheat. I say this because of the speech by Podemos and the Socialist Party, because we have seen examples of leading leaders of Podemos who have not been exactly faithful in fulfilling their tax obligations. That is why we must preach and also give wheat. On the other hand, the PSOE tells us about tax amnesty when they did promote genuine tax amnesty in 1985 and 1991, completely opaque and without knowing who their holders were. That is why, gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, Mr De la Torre, we absolutely share the objectives of the motion put forward by your group. The fight against fraud has been a priority for the People's Party government and you know it better than anyone else. And why have we tabled this amendment? From the People's Group we think that there are certain lines, certain limits that this House should not go beyond. One of them is, of course, respect for tax rules, and a second limit is not to interfere in the proceedings of the Tax Agency, in procedural matters. I am talking about a tax agency - you know it better than anyone, for being a tax inspector - that does its work with enormous responsibility, great dedication and great professionals. That is why, in our amendment - in the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party - we raised three issues that improve the wording of the motion from our point of view. A first question is absolute respect for the legal status of the statute of limitations, which is fundamental in law to the legal certainty of taxpayers. And I want to make one thing very clear today in this speech: it is not true - and you know it too, Mr De la Torre - that the taxpayers have paid 3% of the goods or duties that came out; it is simply not true. It is a lie, because in income and regularized assets there was a part that corresponded to already prescribed exercises, and these limitation periods must be respected. [[Rumors]] Thus, it cannot be concluded that 40 billion hidden assets for years will have to be paid 4 billion euros, because that is not the consideration... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u189	One second, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. [[Rumors]] When I'm saying keep quiet, keep quiet. I beg you, ladies, please. Let's finish the plenary good today. Thank you very much. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u190	The second point we wanted to make clear with the introduction of our amendment is that they are calling for a report from the Directorate-General for Taxation to be put to rest. We know that the reports of the General Directorate of Taxes are binding, but not because the Minister says so, but because the General Directorate of Taxes is, according to the organization chart of the Ministry of Finance, the body competent to issue criteria on tax matters. We cannot cancel a report from the Directorate-General for Taxes. And there is a third question, which is also the point of possible criminal offences by money laundering. In that regard, we have said that the presentation of the special tax declaration does not clean up money-laundering offences, but only has tax effects. And the Tax Agency has been working, checking and investigating taxpayers who have received this regularization, and when it has detected possible signs of crime, it has sent it to the money-laundering prevention service. For this reason, as you write the motion, it may seem that the Tax Agency has been these years crossed by arms, and nothing further from reality, because in 2013 massive information analysis processes have already begun, according to a series of taxpayer risk profiles. Therefore lessons to the People's Party in the fight and prevention of tax fraud few or no, because the movement is shown to be moving, and the data obtained in the control actions of the Tax Agency have beaten all historical records: more than 50.4 billion in the last four years. Spain was bled to death in 2012: massive job loss, risk premium shot, holes hidden in public accounts, bills in the drawers, and above all a brutal tax collection loss. That is why we had to take exceptional, extraordinary measures, where this fiscal regularisation is framed, which allowed more than 40 billion euros to emerge and which broadened the tax bases of other taxes. It is also perfectly compatible with those that have been made in other countries, both European and non-European. That is why turning that economic situation around, re-growing, re-creating employment has not been a coincidence, it has been the result of those economic policies, of those tax policies. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of these results, no one can question the commitment of the People's Party Government to the fight against tax fraud. And that's why we have the best agency to apply taxes, which is the Tax Agency, we have the best professionals at that Tax Agency and we have the best regulatory tools, created as well...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u191	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u192	Yeah, I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u193	No, I'm finishing up, no. It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u194	The minister therefore announced a new anti-fraud plan. Let us make contributions to increase those tools and fight together against this social scourge. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u195	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Royal Decree-Law 2/2012 established an extraordinary regularization that allowed to declare income and assets with application of the single rate of 10%, which did not report the expected revenues because the number of declarations was much, much less than expected. From there the Ministry of Finance has practiced a succession of bandages among which it is possible to include the alleged elaboration of a circular without signature, in which, with strange and peculiar reasonings, the application of a type of 3% was established. This action, for which no one has been held responsible, has caused confusion in the Tax Agency, because it is clearly contrary to the actual decree, because if a law sets a rate of 10%, it would be impossible to reduce it more than by another law. Moreover, the fact of declaring certain returns to the Treasury allows a taxpayer to have fulfilled his tax obligations, but there is a requirement to verify the origin of the money, because it may have been obtained by a professional, who did not declare it at the time - legal situation - or it may be a flow of illicit origin. In short, regularisation has only fiscal effects, but the origin of the funds must be checked. The measures outlined by Mr Montoro are also disconcerting, after stating that he will send a letter after saying that the process of extraordinary regularization does not prescribe. It is obvious that the ministry does not want to take a step back because it is known that every tax relationship prescribes for the passage of four years and, therefore, invalidates what expressed by the Minister of Finance. Sending a letter doesn't help either. As has been said here, only the notifications of which there is a reliable record of their delivery within four years are valid for the purpose of interrupting the prescription and provided that they are communicated at the start of a procedure of regularisation for a specific tax and exercise, with indication of the specific causes of regularisation. In short, we are faced with a succession of pretexts to mask what we believe has been a mistake and therefore we agree with the reinforcements against tax fraud proposed by Citizens on their initiative, which I will vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u198	Thank you very much, President. I'll be very brief. We have told you, Mr De la Torre, that we will vote in favour of your proposal. Nor are we going to entertain ourselves much in the argument, but we are going to take these two minutes to show that this House, and more specifically you and your group, have a problem, and it is a serious problem. Mr Montoro, who is your minister - to whom you voted in favour and to whom you are going to vote in the budget - has given us all sorts of bulldozers, has given all possible passes on this subject. This is a fundamental issue for you and, in fact, you are right. It has not been complied with with the royal decree-law that was passed. You have collected it in your pact and presented various initiatives, but, look, what we are going to adopt today Point 3: 'These inspection proceedings are in any case initiated before 30 November 2016'. [[Show a document]] We are approving it at 10:30 p.m. on the night of 29 November. The problem lies with the Minister but also with you, because you are supporting this government and you are going to support it with the budget. Therefore they will not be able to wash their faces saying, "Look, we have already presented the motion and did not listen to us. Your Finance Minister doesn't listen to you, and you're going to approve the budget. This is a problem that you have and that you have to solve. As for all these theories of non-prescription, I am open to everything and at my fifty-one years I will learn what they teach me, but of course, they will have to teach us. You cannot say that this is the responsibility of the Government because I believe that with the intervention of the spokesman of the People's Party it has become clear to you that it does prescribe and that Mr Montoro's letter does not know whether it was to please you or to put you on a stand, but the reality is that I believe that if you review the inquiry with some elegance, it is clear that Mr Montoro has no intention of enforcing the royal decree-law that validated this House. In any case, if you do not do so and do not modify the report of the Directorate-General for Taxes, it will be difficult to understand that you approve the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u199	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u200	Thank you, Madam President. It's late, let's get to the point. These are fairy tales. Firstly, and with regard to tax amnesty, wrongly done; it was a decision that should not have been taken and we say it again here. Basque farms did not support that initiative and I think it was right. I also believe that with that decision in the report of 27 June, which allowed us to accept cash, we even facilitated money laundering, as the spokesman for Citizens pointed out the other day. But, beyond all that, here are two basic things: one, the tax guy. It is true that they have not taxed 10%, and even the spokesman for the People's Group has admitted it. It cannot be said that they have to tax 10% on the last four years, as if they were normal taxpayers, as if they were affected, in the context of a tax amnesty, by the prescriptibility. No, no, In the terms it was clear: everything that comes out goes to 10%, and that's all, not the last four years; that's all, and that 10% had to have been effective. We don't want to compare taxpayers, let's say, normal with people who have a tax amnesty. 10% was for everything that came out, and the four-year period seems to me to be a genuine aberration. On the one hand, I believe that we must try to make that 10% effective, and on the other hand, with regard to prescriptibility, we have a serious problem. Tomorrow is the deadline and the Government, so that the resolutions they have taken so far did not become firm in order to be able to recover those quotas, should have sent a communication, made an act, so that they would not prescribe to the four years since the deadline for declaration ended. We haven't. Are we on time? We are very fair and I fear it will not be possible, but, if I wanted, the Government would still be in time to do so. There is the list of names, they know them perfectly and they could do so; it would be appropriate to ensure that it is taxed at 10%. Therefore, if the Minister is so sure that he will not prescribe, he will prove to us with solvent legal reports on which he is based, on which he is based to say so. We agree with the points made in the proposal. It seems to me that it would be a positive message to citizens and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u201	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u202	Thank you, President. Almost a year ago, in various ways and in various ways, we were adopting measures to end, in part, the 2012 tax amnesty. The result, according to Esquerra Republicana, is null and void. We are clear that there is no political will - there is no political will - to reverse the effects of the immense tax gift that the 2012 tax amnesty meant for the defrauders. While some were free to defraud, others were taxing us and cutting us rights and freedoms. Republican Left has explained it and explained it to the full. We will not fail to say this: we do not agree with the amnesty of 2012, but we also did not agree with the one made by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and we cannot agree to take measures of grace in favour of those who attack the common good, and the tax amnesty rewards those who evade their responsibilities towards the society where they live, in addition to breaking the law. Of course, we will not be in favour of a future amnesty, nor here, while we are in Spain, nor there, when we are a state. We agree with the philosophy that inspires the subsequent motion of inquiry that citizens again present today in the sense that they are trying to alleviate, as I said, the harmful effects of the tax amnesty operated by the People's Party Government. Although some of the measures, which are intended to be adopted, are generic and not very specific - others do not resolve issues that affect, for example, legal certainty, do not pose an express prohibition on future tax amnesty, do not propose the amendment of the General Tax Act precepts, as measures to identify natural and/or legal persons who at the time were admitted to the tax amnesty, nor do they propose the revision of tax offences in the sense that they are considered serious offences in order for their limitation period to be 10 years, among many other issues that could be the subject of the motion resulting from interpellation. And yes, while we are discussing motions, non-law propositions and other issues, time passes and the problem becomes irresolvable. Lords of Citizens, the People's Party has been robbing you again. The tax amnesty was based on a big lie: the People's Party and the Government of the Spanish State said that the main objective of the amnesty was to obtain greater income for the empty State coffers and thereby bring out what had not been taxed. Time has shown that Minister Montoro made the accounts of the Grand Captain, who only managed to collect half of the expected amount and that the defrauders have not paid 10% but have ended up paying only 3%. Even with the super reduced VAT of a bread bar, which is 4%, an honest citizen pays more. Fiscal amnesty is a major scandal, one more on the long list of the People's Party. The objective pursued - and I refer myself to the evidence, and in the end one comes to this conclusion - is to benefit certain people, those to whom their mouths are often filled with nation and state but hide their money in tax havens. And on this list are people who have had political responsibilities in the state: the woman of a European Commissioner of the People's Party who was a minister, a former Vice-President of the Government, also of the People's Party, Mr Rat, although surely none of you says you already know, and so on. It is also indecent that the tax amnesty has been used to launder money. It was enough to declare that you had cash from before 2010. Can Minister Montoro assure us that this procedure did not involve money from criminal activities, such as drug trafficking and human trafficking? Mr Montoro should stop insisting on the fact that the special declaration never prescribes. Let's see how you manage to get a legal report of that caliber. In any case, as I said, we will vote in favour of this motion knowing that it dies at the very moment of its adoption. And yes - I insist and repeat -, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the People's Party has again timidized them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u203	Thank you very much. I ask Mr De la Torre Díaz whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u204	We accept the amendment to amend paragraph 6 of the United Group We can and the amendment to add paragraph 7 of the same group; the rest we reject.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u205	Thank you very much. Let's start the vote in two minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the vote. Take your seats. We are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for urgent reforms of self-employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 335 votes in favour, 322 with 1 vote in favour, 323 abstentions, 11 with 1 vote in favour, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u207	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, REFORMING LAW 9/1968 OF 5 APRIL, ON OFFICIAL SECRETS. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 122/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u208	We then proceed to take into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group PNV on the reform of Law 9/1968 of 5 April on Official Secrets. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 plus 2 telematics votes, 334; 167 plus 2 telematics votes, 169; against, 3; abstentions, 162.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u209	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u210	We shall then proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the current debate. No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the commemoration of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by all the parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 332 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u211	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Group of the European United States of America may, in common, on the global economic and trade agreement [[AECG-CETA]] [[File number 162/000219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u212	We then vote for the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the global economic and trade agreement. We will vote on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 73 against, 260.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u213	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u214	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions following urgent questioning. Firstly, the Socialist Group's motion on government policy to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens. I'll tell you that you're going to vote for points. We voted on point 1 in the first place. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 167 against, 133 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u215	It was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 128 against, 133 abstentions, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u216	It's rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 325 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u217	It was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 326 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u218	It was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 261 against, 65 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u219	It was adopted. - on the situation of energy poverty in which more than 5 million people live in our country, particularly in the protection measures envisaged by the Spanish Government for the EESC in the violation of rights. [[File number 173/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u220	We then proceed to vote on the motion of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En marea, on the situation of energy poverty in which more than 5 million people live in our country, especially in the protection measures envisaged by the Government of Spain for the cessation of the violation of rights. The vote will take place on the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En marea, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 200 against, 1 abstention, 132.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u221	It's approved. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FISCAL FRAUD AND EVALUATION AND, MORE IN CONCRETE, ON THE MEASURES TAKEN TO GUARANTEE THOSE LIABILITIES BENEFITED BY THE 2012 FISCAL REGULARIZATION, MORE CONCERNED AS 'FISCAL AMNISTRY', THEY MUST EFFECTIVELY AT THE TYPE OF 10 % EXPRESSED IN THE LAW. [[File number 173/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u222	We will then vote on the motion by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the government's policy on combating tax fraud and tax evasion and, more specifically, on the measures taken to ensure that taxable persons benefiting from fiscal regularisation in 2012, better known as 'tax amnesty', effectively tax the 10% rate expressly provided for in the law. We shall vote on it in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendments of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En tiea to point 6 and the addition of a point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 200 abstentions, 132.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-29-CD161129.u223	It's approved. The meeting was suspended. It was ten and twenty-five minutes of the night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 17, corresponding to the Plenary held on Tuesday 23 November 2016, on page 29, second paragraph, fifth line, where the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Environment said: '... eighteen have been awarded...', he meant: '... thirty-eight have been awarded...'. [[García Tejerina]]
