ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u1	We begin with the item on the agenda for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 4/2016 of 2 December on urgent financial measures. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to appear in this House to request your support for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law of urgent financial measures. This rule is part of the process of economic and monetary union in which we are immersed; in particular, the banking union, which is the most important step that we Europeans have taken since the adoption of the single currency. This decree-law consists of three acts of a different nature. Firstly, I would like to refer to the adoption of a line of credit from the Spanish Public Treasury to the Single Resolution Board which manages the Single Resolution Fund. As you know, the resolution fund will be provided by the euro area banks themselves over an eight-year period. However, until the resolution fund is fully endowed and reaches its target level, all Member States must make available to the board a bridge funding which will only be available as a last resort. Spain had not been able to implement such a funding mechanism since the Government was in operation. We should therefore proceed to its adoption urgently, since we were among the few countries that had not regulated this situation. Secondly, this rule contains a measure to maximise the recovery of public aid granted to nationalised entities. It provides for a two-year extension of the legal period for the divestment of the State in Bankia and BMN, although there is nothing to prevent it from being done without the expiry of the period. The divestment obligation within a maximum period of five years had been a self-imposed by the Spanish Government in 2012, neither part of the restructuring plans nor of any specific requirement determined by European regulation or by the Commission itself on the occasion of the financial assistance programme. Thirdly and lastly, this royal decree-law includes an adjustment of the accounting regime of the Sareb to define the scheme of recording the fluctuations of the prices of the assets in the balance sheet of the society. If I may, I shall then briefly stop at each of these points. As you all know, the Single Resolution Fund came into operation on 1 January 2016. The creation of this fund is a definitive step in the implementation of the second pillar of the banking union. Thanks to its establishment it will be the entities themselves and not the taxpayers who will have to respond to the eventual resolution of a credit institution. The fund will be provided progressively with contributions from credit institutions from all euro area countries. To this end, a transitional period has been established which will take place between 2016 and 2024 in order to reach a size equivalent to 1% of the covered deposits, around €55 billion, of which Spain accounts for slightly more than €5 billion. During this transitional period, situations could arise where the resources available to the fund are not sufficient to cover the possible costs of the resolution operations of the institutions. In order to deal with this eventuality, on 8 December 2015, Ecofin agreed that the Member States participating in the banking union would make available to the Single Resolution Board loan facilities that would provide bridge financing. Spain, like the rest of the Member States, had undertaken to approve this facility before September 2016, which, as I have already mentioned, was not possible because the Government was in office. Therefore, this Decree-Law authorises the implementation of the above-mentioned lending facility between Spain and the Single Resolution Board for a maximum amount of up to EUR 5,291 million. This amount is equivalent to the estimate of the Spanish bank's contribution to that fund. Should the use of this line of credit be required, the Secretariat-General of the Treasury would be responsible for providing the necessary disbursements to the Resolution Fund. Let me highlight to you the characteristics of this lending facility. It is transitional in nature, first of all, until in 2024 the fund is financed in its entirety by bank contributions. It will only be used as a mechanism of last resort, i.e. it will only be used once the other funds available have been exhausted, including internal recapitalisation funds and transfers of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. It is fiscally neutral, as the interest rate paid by the Single Resolution Board will be equivalent to the Treasury's financing cost. And the potential or potential disbursements that may occur would not have an impact on the public deficit. In short, the articulation of this line of credit is a matter of special urgency, as it involves fulfilling the commitment made by Spain to the start-up of the banking union. Second, this rule concerns the extension of FROB's divestment period for two entities, Bankia and BMN. As you will recall, the Restructuring and Resolution of Credit Institutions Act 2012 stipulated that FROB should divest its holdings within a period of not more than five years from the date of subscription or acquisition. These deadlines ended in December 2017 for the participation that FROB maintains in Bankia - slightly more than 65% - and in March 2018 for the participation in BMN - also slightly more than 65%-. I would like to reiterate that this time limit was fixed internally by means of a forecast of the Spanish system and does not result or derive from any requirement of the European Union. As you know, FROB has started an analysis of different disinvestment alternatives to maximise the recovery of public aid. It is expected that in the first quarter of next year we will already have the conclusions of this study. They will agree with me that whatever the final divestment strategy, meeting the requirements of existing legislation, can hardly be met within one year. It is also clear that it is difficult to maximise the recovery of the aid to which we aspire, since the market tends to reduce the value of participation as the mandatory divestment date approaches. For this reason, this royal decree-law establishes an amendment that allows the extension of this period in two years and, if necessary, enables possible future extensions through an agreement of the Council of Ministers that prevents value reductions linked exclusively to the proximity of the deinvestment deadline. This extension does not necessarily imply that we postpone the divestment; what means is that, if it were necessary, we would have more time to reconcile the divestment obligation with the maximisation of privatization revenues; an object expressly provided for in the resolution legislation. Finally, the text now being validated includes an accounting adjustment in the Bank Restructuring Asset Management Company, Sareb. In 2015, Banco de España approved a circular in which the accounting specifications of Sareb are developed; this standard states that the company must value all assets at market price annually. The present Royal Decree-Law, without changing the substance of this accounting framework, specifies how these valuations should be recorded accountingly and decides their impact on the balance sheet and the results account without altering their faithful image. From now on, this valuation will be recorded in an account called value-change adjustments, within the net worth, and results will be charged only when the benefit is positive and up to the limit of that benefit. As you know, Sareb has been a key instrument in the consolidation and restructuring of the Spanish financial system within the framework of the 2012 Memorandum of Understanding between Spain and the European Union. Its function was to acquire financial assets with pure real estate or real estate guarantees from entities experiencing difficulties with the aim of improving the quality of their balance sheets. In this sense, Sareb has been one of the most powerful instruments to change the perception of banking in 2012. Sareb presents particularities, ladies and gentlemen, for its unique social object and for the public interest deriving from its activity. Its fundamental mission and the reason for its creation is to buy time for the sale of the assets received. For this reason, a 15-year time horizon was established, and the disappearance of society is mandatory. In order to facilitate this process, it was financed under privileged conditions: bonds issued with the guarantee of the State and with the possibility of being discounted at the European Central Bank. In this context, the modification of this royal decree-law, without altering the transparency and the faithful image of the company's accounts, prevents the volatility of the evolution of the real estate market from conditioning the strategy of the entity; it also avoids the need to take measures with impact on the public deficit and allows to maintain the final objective, which is nothing other than the maximization of the value of sales at the end of the fifteen years. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Sareb is an entity of a different nature from traditional financial and real estate companies; its purpose is to be an instrument for the consolidation of entities in difficulty, so it has been provided with a financing structure and a long time horizon to avoid short-term fluctuations in the real estate market. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Today we validate a rule that drives banking union, a historic milestone in economic and monetary union primarily because it has been key to reducing financial fragmentation and breaking the harmful link between sovereign risk and banking, two aspects that had posed a serious threat to the euro over the past years. The creation of the Single Resolution Fund is a vital step in the implementation of the second pillar of the banking union, thanks to which it will be the entities themselves and not the taxpayers who will have to respond to the eventual resolution. In the same vein, it is essential that we also make progress towards the third pillar, the European deposit guarantee scheme, which, as you know, Spain clearly supports. At present, this mechanism continues to be discussed in parallel with a series of measures to reduce or reduce the risk of the financial sector. Achieving greater mutualisation is essential, ladies and gentlemen, if the euro is to work, as the recent crisis has shown. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have laid the foundations for equipping ourselves with greater and better tools in the face of future banking crises in Europe. The Spanish financial sector has undergone a profound transformation following the restructuring, sanitation and recapitalisation process initiated in 2012, a process that has allowed the Spanish banking sector not only to generate doubts but, unlike what is happening in other European countries, to contribute to the economic growth of our country. Today our financial system is stronger, transparent and has better corporate governance, and all this has been fundamental to recovery and economic growth. We therefore need to continue to push for improved financial regulation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that I will obtain your support for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u4	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to say that we are going to support the Minister's decree. Secondly, that I am reading this week a novel called The German girl who deals with a boat that left Hamburg in the Nazi era with thousands of Jews towards Cuba and continued to the United States and Canada. Suddenly, the countries looked elsewhere, only let twenty-seven people disembark in Cuba and the ship returned to Europe. We live the tragedy of Bosnia; today Aleppo has 50,000 people and can be Gernika. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u5	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u6	Today Aleppo is Gernika. Today Aleppo is Gernika, the world is looking elsewhere and we cannot consent to it. There are 50,000 children, women and civilians who are going to be massacred and we know it and, although it is important today, this country cannot shut up. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u7	For the Joint Group too, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This royal decree, explained by Minister De Guindos, implements urgent financial measures that complement the Spanish commitments to Europe in the field of banking union and also enables the head of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness to grant a loan facility to the Single Resolution Board for the coverage of the transitional needs of the Single Resolution Fund. It also refers to the company's accounting framework for assets arising from bank restructuring, Sareb, which was once known as a bad bank and whose creation Forum rejected four years ago. Now, this new formula sets out the scheme for registering any deficiencies resulting from the application of accounting procedures to be analysed in the company's net assets. Through this form of registration, as pointed out by the head of the Economy, it is ensured that its accounting regime is consistent with the long-term disinvestment mandate to be developed by Sareb and considered in the Memorandum of Understanding on Financial Sector Policy Conditions agreed with the international authorities. It is an instrumental measure but in Forum we deny the biggest because in 2012 we opposed the creation of the bad bank and today we reiterate that it is an insolidary formula with the Spanish, harmful to individuals and companies and that benefits financial institutions. We said it in his day and repeated it. You, Minister, have described it today as a powerful instrument. For us it is an instrument of discrimination against the weak against the strong, a harmful model for families and citizens who have traditionally invested in real estate. That is where the government would have to act so that the bad bank would stop being so with this traditional Spanish saving formula instead of favoring the balances of the financial institutions already very assisted in recent years. However, aside from these considerations on the Sareb, we consider the rest of the measures envisaged in this royal decree-law to be very appropriate and we will therefore vote in favour of their validation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, let me tell you that we are voting in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. In any case, I tell you in advance, and I will not be able to tell the next minister that he is going to ask for a validation, that we appreciate the effort made by the ministry and the parliamentary group to make us aware of the content and to be able to interlocute in relation to the actual decree in question. These are three questions that you have easily explained. Our group is one of those who fulfil their obligations at European level. The commitments at Ecofin have been delayed for reasons that surely nobody would want, but in any case they must be fulfilled, so we are in favour. As regards the possibility of giving more time for divestment, the most relevant case, Bankia's, also seems to us to be reasonable. Surely, in 2012, when we adopted the relevant legislation and set a five-year deadline, we were overly optimistic. In any case, it is now set at seven years with the reservation - and that would be questionable - that it will be up to the Congress of Deputies to expand it, but we have nothing to object to. Thirdly, the accounting adjustments in the Sareb, beyond the mechanism, seem to us to be appropriate and intelligent as long as these handicaps are to be attributed to the profit and loss account, and when there are no profits, they will not lead to the need for an increase in capital. Therefore, it also seems to us to be an appropriate measure, and our group will therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u11	Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u12	I will be brief and concise, I will not run out of time, but one wonders whether the measures contained in the decree are logical or not. I am not going to go to the origin of some of the instruments we are debating, nor to talk about the beginning of the banking union, nor why the Sareb, nor why the FROB, because the only thing that could lead us to melancholy. What we have to do is face the current situation, try to find the best for public interests and at the same time comply with our international obligations. I think that's the framework in which you have to move. We have the spirit of not complicating things politically without any need and of trying to solve practical problems, which is exactly what is presented here in three different areas. We shall therefore vote in favour. I also advocate that the Government should maintain the same spirit of collaboration in the search for solutions to problems that other administrations, for example, the Autonomous Communities, face on a day-to-day basis. As far as the first issue is concerned, whether or not the single resolution mechanism is important and whether or not we achieve the objective of improving the banking union? From our point of view, yes, and we have said so through countless interventions in this rostrum. So, it's important. On the other hand, the state has a commitment and at the moment the only ones that seem to have failed to do so - because all European countries are involved in the banking union - are Greece and Cyprus and if Spain has not done so it has been because of the political circumstances that we all know. Can Spain stay out of this contribution? No, he couldn't stay out. Of course we could skip the agreements!, but should it be the attitude of a serious State to fail to meet its commitments? No, no, So let us solve the problem, let us do what we should have done long ago knowing that it is a loan that has a transitional character - because we are talking about that, something that has a transitional character - and that money is going to come back from public debt without having an impact on the public deficit. As for the Sareb - and I insist we are not going to fall into the melancholy of why we come to this -: To what purpose is it born? It is born with the aim of gaining time to make a correct sale of the assets derived from bank restructuring and in that sense it should do what it can do to maximize the benefit it can get because, after all, it is what will benefit the public interest. Being pressured by market movements at a given time would be a mistake. And here we have a problem, generated by the circulation of the Banco de España, an accounting problem that has consequences. That Circular 5/2015 has weakened the Sareb, has changed the rules of the game, which have been modified on the original business model. This problem must therefore be addressed, which has entailed an additional effort in terms of provisions, by having to do valuation accounting annually at market price. It has been necessary to make provisions that were not foreseen and, therefore, it has been necessary to convert capital, nothing more and nothing less than 2,171 million euros of subordinated debt; and in the proportional part that Sareb has in public terms, 996 million, nothing more and nothing less, which have an effect on the public deficit and which have had to be provided through a capital transfer. Does this make sense? No, no, We therefore believe that the accounting measure is correct in order to neutralize these weaknesses, for the purpose of resources of Sareb herself, and in this way to fulfil the important thing, which is to achieve the goal of society: to achieve value, to maximize the benefit of her assets and to try to make the public loss the least possible. This is the purpose, I insist, of revising the accounting rules in force to mitigate the annual revaluation impact of the asset stock on the annual results. We therefore agree with the solution of not imputing the valuation of non-real estate assets to the profit and loss account. With regard to FROB, Idem. The law talks about disinvestment and gives a few deadlines, which end in 2017. What's important about FROB? We must ensure, as we said with the Sareb, that public aid is maximised. That should be the objective, not only of the Government but also of this Parliament. We must guarantee, maximise the recovery of public aid. Would the public position improve with the advance sale of the assets? It seems not, according to market forecasts. Is it therefore logical to extend the divestment period? Yeah. Therefore, Minister, the measures you propose make sense to us and our vote will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u13	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u14	Bon dia, president, deputies and deputies. Regardless of the meaning of the Republican Left vote in relation to the validation of this royal decree, which is already anticipated to be the abstention, you present us with a royal decree that, from the point of view of Republican Left, we would qualify as popurrí. There are things that we could share, such as the first article of this royal decree with regard to the Single Resolution Board, and to which we would give support without any problem in understanding that this new authority, at European level based in Brussels, is competent to decide together with the ECB how to resolve a bank if it gets into trouble. This new resolution mechanism, which has been in place since 1 January this year, has the main objective of preventing governments from ending up dumping public resources to save banks. It's the second pillar of the banking union. The first would be the sole supervision of banks. And the third, which is still to be developed, would be the European Deposit Guarantee Fund. There are only four countries left and among them is the Kingdom of Spain. From this rostrum, I dare to ask the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to ensure good annual monitoring of private contributions, in order to be able to ensure that, in fact, the return of this public advance will be gradual and that it will therefore exist. The second aspect that is regulated in this royal decree is what is called the bad bank, the Sareb; it establishes an authorization to set a valuation framework for the Sareb portfolio. In short, as I said, it is merely a reflection of a way of acting for decades by promoting the real estate bubble. What should be a sector that evolves due to normal factors has for many years been seen as a genuine bubble trying to transform the housing market and not as a basic vital need for all citizens; it has become financial products that should provide increasing profits. When the government tells us about high volatility of assets, it is referring to the price of flats, which, according to the Republican Left, continues to be governed by greed rather than by the real needs of the citizenry. For this reason, we say that in this decree, the validation of which is presented today, there are aspects to which it would not cost us anything to support them, but to this particular one, yes, among other reasons, because - as I said - the mortgages were held in their day and are sold as packages of assets to investment funds in order to obtain a very high financial return immediately. In this regard, I also remind you - and I take advantage of the minutes given to me by the speakers' gallery - that Esquerra Republicana has submitted a non-legislative proposal to the Committee on Economics and Competitiveness, precisely in order to obtain an adequate record of these qualifications. It comes to this again and, in any case, I ask the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to take note of this and to agree to discuss this issue and to regulate it, inter alia, because it is a guarantee for the consumer and, therefore, it would be necessary to regulate it. The third aspect is that of the period of disinvestment of the FROB and, in this sense, we want to say again that it is a part of this royal decree with which we would not feel comfortable. I would like to announce that it would be good if the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, in this case, and the People's Party supporting it, would also support the subcommission requested by Esquerra Republicana in view of the necessary assessment that should be made of the financial system or banking reorganization or rescue and consumer rights. I reiterate that we are going to abstain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u15	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr De Guindos, brings us to this House a decree-law which, in the end, is nothing more than a derivative of the famous bailout to the bank, which forced us to ask for a credit of up to 100 billion euros of the famous bailout that never existed. Anyway, I have already told you that we share this decree-law and we are going to vote in favour of its validation. As you have rightly stated, you have three articles. The first is the loan to the Single Resolution Fund, i.e. the authorization to the Treasury to lend up to EUR 5,291 million to the Single Resolution Fund. It seems to us positive because it is a basic pillar of the banking union. If this had been established previously, in 2012 Spain would not have had to face its banking crisis alone, we would not have had the very serious financing problem that we had. Therefore, this mutualisation, which will take place in the future through the banking union, will make us all stronger and will allow us to cope better throughout Europe with banking crises such as this, whose collections we still suffer. This international obligation of Spain is not fulfilled and, therefore, this loan has to be fulfilled, but we also share the idea of strengthening the banking union, and for this we must provide funds for multilateral instruments. We therefore clearly support this aspect. With regard to the second aspect, the question of the accounting system of the Sareb, I would like to remind you that on 19 October the President of the Bank-Ordered Restructuring Fund, Mr Ponce, appeared in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and curiously when I asked him whether there was any risk in the Sareb, whether there was any risk for the 2,250 million which the State had invested as capital and for the more than 40 billion euros outstanding, he told us that no to the Members, and he told us that not because the business plan of the Sareb in 2026 was going to earn money. Moreover, Mr Ponce's speech was frankly brilliant and well documented, but it is not appropriate to set traps in solitary. In this respect, it is recognised that there are problems and that a transitional account must be created so that any valuation adjustments in Sareb's credits do not directly impact on own funds. The problems are going to remain there because we are still suffering from a banking crisis, but it will have our support on this issue. In our view, in order for Sareb not to be an additional source of losses for the taxpayer, there are three factors to be taken into account. One of them, as has been said here, leads to melancholy, which is the price at which the assets were transferred by the banking sector to Sareb, but there are also sales management and the cost of financing. I asked the president of FROB and was left to explain to me the cost of financing Sareb and the operations that were carried out. We will follow that, but in any case it has our support. Finally, in this royal decree-law it is regulated to give more time for the State to disinvest in Bankia - if this royal decree-law is not validated, it would end at the end of next year - and in Banco Mare Nostrum. It seems to us to be basically a matter of common sense, because if the State is not given more time, even if it does not use it, those prospective buyers will wait at the end and try to get the State to sell them at the lowest possible price, which will harm taxpayers. It is very wrong for me to say this - it is a matter of common sense - because it is precisely the proposal - to give them more time - that we made to them on 19 October publicly in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and that, as some newspaper has also collected, we have also moved it to the meetings we have had. It is a good idea and a matter of common sense, from a financial point of view. However, this common financial sense shines through its absence, as does minimal negotiation, in the other decree-law that comes here today in the midst of a financial crisis, which is the practice of extinguishing the postponements that the Treasury can give regarding tax obligations, on two issues. First, it is surprisingly prohibited that any company that has to make split payments may apply for any kind of deferral in its tax obligations. This will not help the proper performance of tax obligations or improve collection. Secondly, it is also prohibited to postpone VAT unless it is proved that VAT has not been charged. And all this despite Mr Montoro's saying that all SMEs and self-employed people are financed without any problems in the financial market. This is literally not true. Moreover, it is surprising that a decree-law is brought in to adapt to the exit of a financial crisis and, at the same time, it is put at the same time all the possible obstacles and in practice the postponement of tax obligations is prohibited, especially because the second decree-law, unlike this one, has not only not been negotiated, but in some respects it is literally a corollary, since it cannot be prohibited all the entities and any society in Spain that obtains some kind of postponement, nor can life be complicated to the self-employed, especially with the data of lateness that currently exist in Spain. As far as the decree-law on urgent financial measures is concerned, it seems to us to be a question of common sense and wisdom. Some aspects are proposals that we have made to them and we are glad that they are being collected, so our vote is going to be in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u17	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are presenting us here today with a real decree of urgent financial measures to validate it, and we are already progressing that we are not going to do so. The reasons for this refusal are substantive discrepancies. Although, apparently, we are talking about technical discussions, without economic and social repercussions, when one analyzes the content of these measures perceives the true background they conceal. In particular, I will focus on two of them, namely those relating to Sareb and FROB. I'm starting with the Sareb. The measure contained in the royal decree on the Sareb is not urgent, Minister, but something else and you know it perfectly well. It aims to take the consequences of Circular 5/2015 of the Banco de España, which was not a capricious circular, but essentially intended to properly account for capital gains and impairments arising from the valuation of assets and to adequately provide for basic financial precautions. The result of that circular was that the Sareb closed 2015, as you well know, with a disability of 3.1 billion and had to provide supplies for more than 2 billion, specifically 2,044 million. Then we had to capitalise on the Sareb with EUR 2,171 million of subordinated debt and that is where the problems we are dealing with now begin and which lead us to the fundamental question: either the Sareb is settled at the time its net assets are less than 50% of its share capital or will be forced to be capitalised, to increase its capital if its net assets decline, if it remains below 66% of its share capital, with the addition that it has serious problems in capitalising, among other things, because the State cannot put more capital in order not to exceed 50% and not to consolidate the Sareb as a public entity and because the Sareb has capitalised on the subordinated debt with which it was created. That's where you arrive with your royal decree to help the Sareb and then anticipate Mr. Echegoyen's Christmas gift, your director. If all this that I'm telling the citizenry sounds like Chinese, and probably most of the members of the House, it will understand what you're doing when you express it in the following terms. You do a creative accounting exercise, Minister, and everyone in this country knows that creative accounting is bad, with capitals. Read it like that. He's trying to make up Sareb's accounts so that, year after year, there are no losses and yes, surprisingly, benefits. What he is doing is that the losses of the Sareb become by the art of birlibirloque, simply changing Law 9/2012, into profits. And they are being continued losses because even the European Commission told him in his day that the transfers of real estate assets to Sareb were being made far above their real value and that, added to the fact that the real estate market does not end up recovering, causes losses in the bad bank. A creative accounting that they had already applied last year to wipe out the 3.1 billion that appeared from handicaps and what you do is prevent the Sareb from having to continue to do creative accounting and make up its results, offering it a legal umbrella for losses to disappear forever. Moreover, not content with this, it legislates so that the handicaps do not reduce the net assets of the Sareb, so that it does not have to be forced to demand a new capitalization, among other things, because capitalization would require that most of the capital should be put by partners other than the State, which, surprisingly, is the majority of the banking system. That is, you are again preventing the financial system from contributing to the costs it has imposed on society as a whole. So it is not that it is an urgent measure, but that it is, again, a gift to the Sareb and its shareholders. This does not solve the two serious fundamental problems of the Sareb, the Sareb has one and the Spanish society, another. The first is financial: Sareb has losses because, as I have told you and the European Commission, the assets were bought at overpriced prices. And, as we are in the world upside down, Minister, you come and clean the portfolio of the banking system of real estate assets that, unfortunately, the banking system had generated in that excess of greed that caused the real estate bubble. To deal with the lack of clean-up of the bank's balance sheet, they contract debt with the bank they are cleaning up and now every month or every year we have to transfer revenue from the Sareb to the banking system to meet the debt interests we have contracted with the banking system. And this is even more serious if in the next ten years that remain of life to the Sareb the assets are not sold at the overpriced prices to which they were bought and the financial and maintenance costs that entail the retention of the portfolio of real estate assets that it continues to maintain, in a fat way, the Sareb. So, to see how it explains at that time, in which if they have not been sold we will have to face the debt contracted, that a Sareb that comes with profit every year, will have to be rescued with the taxpayers' money; to see how it explains it at that time. The other serious underlying problem is no longer the Sareb but the whole Spanish economy, it is the real problem, the real one, that the citizens who live in this country have, and it is that every day there are still hundreds of mortgages and evictions, and people are evicted from their homes. That problem seems to be that you do not care the least, because, if you were concerned, instead of changing the law governing the accounting makeup of the Sareb, you would have to have changed your statutory nature to become a social housing rental agency or at least that could help social housing policy. That is not what I or my parliamentary group are asking; the Ombudsman, Mrs Soledad Becerril, in February asked her to join the Social Housing Fund. He asked his ministry and his ministry told him no, that the Sareb was not for that. So to legislate in favour of the financial system, yes and of urgency, but to legislate in favour of the needs of citizens, not and never. What you are doing with this, Minister, is making up Sareb's accounts to prevent everyone from realizing that what is a bad bank has become a zombie bank and that, therefore, we are on our way to cost us a lot of money to all Spaniards. On the other hand, the royal decree incorporates another measure with which we do not agree - I have little time left and I will spend quickly on it -: it proposes to extend the deadline to privatize Bankia and BMN two years above the initial five. And it is not that we disagree that there are two or twenty-two; we disagree that Bankia and BMN be privatized; we disagree that there is no public banking in this country. We have a bank that has nationalized but does not act as such. It is clear that it goes against the common sense that the privatization of Bankia, a bank that is created after the rescue of a savings bank that had been managed in a corrupt and absolutely harmful way for the interests of Spanish citizens, that is nationalized, that is healed, that is passed on to public ownership and that under public ownership it becomes to distribute dividends and to be profitable. It is proposing not only that we privatize a public bank, but that we privatize a public bank that distributes dividends and that could be a perfect instrument to support the country's financial and social policy at the moment. [[Applauds]] Minister, I conclude. Not two or twenty-two. Public banking. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u19	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to explain the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 4/2016 of urgent financial measures, which, as has already been said, addresses three issues. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u21	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u22	The first concerns the granting to the Minister of Economy of a loan facility to the Single Resolution Board for the transitional coverage of the Single Resolution Fund, amounting to EUR 5,291 million. This point refers to the agreement adopted on 8 December 2015 by Ecofin, which concerns the Member States participating in the banking union and which is a commitment for Spain. It establishes that from 2016 each participating Member State will enter into a loan agreement harmonised with the Single Resolution Board which will only be used as a last resort mechanism, providing the Board with an individual national credit line to support its own national compartment of the Single Resolution Fund. Of course, we agree with the Socialist Group in this respect that moving forward on the pillars of the banking union that we have defended is positive for the European Union project, because in the face of the challenges, more Europe is needed. Banking union is a key element of monetary union to strengthen the financial system, ensure it contributes to the growth of the real economy and cope with future financial crises. Its objective is to prevent the taxpayer from financing future bailouts, to cut the vicious circle between bank aid and national public debt, to reduce the cost of potential banking crises for the Member States and to reduce until the moral risk that has led to the failure of those responsible for the financial crisis to bear the consequences of the crisis has been eradicated. The Socialist Group believes that progress needs to be made in the establishment of a real firewall through access by the Single Resolution Fund to the financing of the European Stability Mechanism, the MED, in the creation of a European Deposit Guarantee Fund and that the allocation of the Single Resolution Fund, which currently provides for only 1% of the guaranteed bank deposits, needs to be increased. However, Minister, we have doubts, which we would like you to clarify, whether that money can become a lost aid or not, under what circumstances that eventuality could occur and whether it could be calculated as a deficit at a given time. In the Commission's words, it would be almost EUR 5.3 billion that, if there were new situations of financial crisis, they would get out with the least possible contribution from taxpayers, but once again there could be a contribution. We would like to point out that there is a risk that State contributions to the Single Resolution Fund will be lost and that they may also become in deficit. The second paragraph of the Royal Decree is the amendment of Law 9/2012 of 14 November on restructuring and resolution of credit institutions, which directly affects the accounting rules of Sareb. It is a technical article concerning the application of the accounting valuation per unit of assets, in compliance with the Circular of the Banco de España of 2015. It adds that the accounting of any impairments that may arise will not be against the profit and loss account, but against a special account within the net assets that will not be subject to the legal regulation of capital companies for the purpose of reducing share capital and compulsory dissolution for losses. You know perfectly well how and why they set up the bad bank, the Sareb, because you didn't like the idea, but Brussels forced with the Memorandum of Understanding, the MOU, before the rescue of the Spanish financial system, and you did it running and wrong. Minister, you know that since its creation in 2012, Sareb has been a mismanaged entity, with recurrent losses and very high amounts. I remind you of the considerations of black men in their recent visit to Spain and the last report of 16 November, which in the Sareb section says that their provisional results during the first half of the year do not point to an improvement in the financial situation and recall that they still have to complete the valuation of their assets in line with the new accounting rules, which could lead to changes in the settlement and declaration of potential losses in part of the assets. He knows that the Sareb has complained about the prices at which it had to acquire the packages of toxic assets of the financial institutions applying those known in the financial sector as decrees of Guindos and that they were made at prices that were overvalued, above their real value, as we told him from the Socialist Group, that they did not correspond to the value of the market. Minister, something must have happened to him with the governor of the Banco de España, something happened to him in the Bankia process and something must have happened to him with the Sareb, because the circular of the Banco de España is so hard with society that, in the words of some people in the financial sector, it has a point even of bloodthirstyness. The application of the circular approved by the Banco de España in the year 2015 generated impairments in individual assets, amounting to 3,012 million euros, with the consequent accounting consolidations that have forced to redo the accounts of the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, as well as to convert subordinated debt into capital, which in the case of FROB, as has already been said from the rostrum, has amounted to 996 million euros with direct impact on the public deficit of the year 2016. If nothing is done, everything points out that in the accounting closure of 2016 it will be necessary to provide again handicaps with new impacts in deficit and possibly with the need for new funds, as well as that the State provides more public resources. We therefore feel it appropriate to change some aspects of the accounting rules of the Sareb, so that the overvaluation of the assets acquired under the De Guindos decrees does not imply new contributions of taxpayers' resources for accounting losses due to latent impairments in the current valuation of the individual assets in view of the current situation of the company's own funds. A misconceived and managed process that we would like to begin to find a certain order and to which we wish a successful journey, for the general good, until its planned liquidation within fifteen years, because its failure could imply a new contribution of public resources that could be between 4% and 6% of the Spanish GDP. We hope and hope that this will not happen and that further contributions from taxpayers will not be needed. In line with this accounting change, we lack other considerations, such as the need for more and better transparency in the management and accounts of society and, of course, greater social awareness with the management of uninhabited properties. The third article of the Royal Decree is the amendment of Law 11/2015, of June, on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and companies of services and investment, where it proposes the extension to seven years or more, if so agreed by the Council of Ministers, in the processes of restructuring and resolution referred to in article 31.4 of Law 9/2012, and which affects the process of disinvestment by the FROB of ordinary shares or contributions to share capital that would have been acquired in the aforementioned processes. This affects the Bankia and BMN entities, projects that have to go hand in hand. By the way, Minister, we don't like the auction. The Spanish and European banks have a problem of profitability that forces them to redefine their business model with interest rates in the zero, they have to work hard to look very little and that goes well - that is not everyone -. No one knows how much Bankia and BMN are going to quote in two years' time; that's what the Stock Exchange has, which you know is going to go up or down, but you don't know in what order. What we do know and want - and I hope we all agree - is that we must sell at the highest possible price the shares held by the state in order to recover as much of the public money that went into the entities in order to save them from bankruptcy. We said that years ago, when the government's initial divestment period was three years, the troika's pressure to divest as soon as possible, right, Minister? If we understand, they rescue you and you have to meet a number of conditions. But what is reasonable is what the PP government is proposing now and which has always defended the Socialist Party, and that is why it seems to us to adjust the time of disinvestment to sell by maximizing the public utility of participation in financial institutions and to recover what is placed in them. We welcome the People's Party Government to the positions of the Socialist Party. In short - and I conclude, President - we agree to move forward in the construction of the banking union, which is slower than we would like, and we support Spain's commitment and involvement in that process. We agree with the government's accounting amendment to Sareb's accounts so that its mismanagement does not entail new costs for taxpayers, and we agree to extend the time limits for divestments of financial institutions under FROB's control in order to achieve the greatest economic benefit and safeguard the general interest. Therefore, we will vote yes to the validation of the royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u23	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we will all agree that there has been a change in the trend in the Spanish economy as a whole in recent years, and that this has allowed an improvement in the lives of families, that there has been an improvement in employment. One of the reasons for the improvement I was referring to was precisely because the financial assistance programme which facilitated the reconstruction of the banking sector, which eliminated doubts about the solvency of our banking sector, and which is allowing credit to be recovered on households and for businesses, has been successfully completed. Today the growth data of our economy, the employment data allow us to be reasonably optimistic and say that we have clearly faced the exit from the crisis. But as one of the reasons I was telling you is that the financial sector situation in our country has been addressed and resolved since the arrival of the People's Party to the Government. The real decree-law discussed today in this House is part of that sanitation policy, that growth policy, that employment generation policy. One of the things that has made this crisis clear is that the stability of the euro could not call into question the confusion between sovereign debt and banking, and that the way to avoid it was precisely to take decisive steps towards banking union, especially in the countries of the euro area. If the single supervisory mechanism is the first pillar of that banking union, the single resolution mechanism and its fund, the single resolution fund, is the second, and it will also allow, ladies and gentlemen - and I am going to go into some issues that have been commented on by some of the speakers in this House - that it is the entities and not the taxpayers who have to respond to a possible bank failure. In view of the doubts raised by the Socialist Group spokesman, I would like to remind him that these lending facilities, which the Minister is authorized to sign, operate as a last resort mechanism once all internal channels have been exhausted. In addition, its financing goes to debt and not to the public deficit. That is why - and I think it was latent in your thinking - we can say that this royal decree means more Europe, because it enables the mechanisms so that we can make the contribution that we as a Member State have to the banking union in this transitional period. This royal decree also means that the Kingdom of Spain complies with the international authorities, with the principle of transparency and the regulation of accounts, without hindering the main objective of the Sareb, which is the sale of assets under the best market conditions. Entering into the reflections made by the spokesman for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of Podemos, Mr Montero, I will say that if you look at what is the nature of society, of the Sareb, I think it is not rigorous - I do not say it in the spirit of disturbing you - to say that a hand is being given to the Sareb. If the legal nature of the Sareb is contained and the objective of what is being done is precisely to make decisions in order to fulfil our European commitments, that is what is being done; nothing else is being done. Your reflection I think is going in a direction in which let me feel a little assaulted: that you speak on behalf of the people and me on behalf of the financial elites. [[Rumors.-Acquittal]] Yes, of course, you agree; if I know. What's going on? Those who vote for me knowing that I'm going to defend the interests of the financial elites here don't know? Are only those who vote for you found out because they're smarter? You will recognize with me that people cannot be despised simply because they do not vote for you. [[Applauds]] People cannot be despised, because if not someone could think that, from a democratic point of view, their principles are quite weak. [[A Member of Parliament: They are!]] But there is something more dangerous if it fits: it speaks on behalf of people because you know what suits you; we don't know what suits people. If you know what is right for you, and you speak on behalf of the people, of course, how you will allow us, for example, to decide how we want to educate our children, if it is only you who know what is right for the education of our children. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Of course, if you know what's good for people and we don't know, how you're going to let them travel the Great Way; you're going to have to travel the other way. [[Rumors.-Mr Errejón Galván: Let's not talk about parking]] Sure, they don't like it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u26	Allow me, Your Honor, but in this that I defend the financial elites I also speculate, right? And of course, you can decide what people like and what people don't like; that's why you want to ban bulls: because you can't like it, that's not good for people either. [[Mr. Turrion Churches: Please!]] It is true, but put to the fore, do not tell us that with this royal decree we are not taking decisions precisely to prevent taxpayers from facing the risks of bankruptcy in the financial sector, do not tell us that we defend the interests of the financial sector when what we are doing is defending the interests of people, taxpayers, citizens, people in the end, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That's what we're doing. I think there are powerful reasons for voting in favour of this initiative; there are three reasons, if you will allow me, and I conclude: one, this royal decree means betting for more Europe, it means betting for more European Union, it means betting for the banking union, which is possibly the most important step that can be taken or that we have taken in recent years, from the point of view of the economic integration of the union. It also means that the Kingdom of Spain remains a reliable partner that fulfils its commitments with its European partners, and furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this royal decree highlights how it is intended to give efficient use to public resources, extending the deadline for the divestment of public assets in those entities that had to be nationalised, precisely in order to find the best time of sale with the highest price that allows us to recover the greatest amount of money for taxpayers. More Europe, that the Kingdom of Spain fulfils its commitments and that we give efficient use to public resources are three very powerful reasons to vote in favour of this royal decree, I vote in favour of which I humbly ask each and every one of you on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[The Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u27	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u28	Thank you very much, President. I speak to thank all speakers for their contributions. There has been some kind of request for further clarification and of course we will send it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 3/2016 OF 2 DECEMBER, BY WHICH MEASURES ARE ADOPTED IN THE TRIBUTARY FRAMEWORK ADDRESSED TO THE CONSOLIDATION OF PUBLIC FINANCES AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES IN SOCIAL MATTER. [[File number 130/00002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u30	We now discuss Royal Decree-Law 3/2016 of 2 December, which provides for tax measures aimed at consolidating public finances and other urgent social measures. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to explain and defend, on behalf of the Government, Royal Decree-Law 3/2016 of 2 December 2016 on tax measures aimed at consolidating public finances and other urgent measures in the social field. I have to say that the cause of the measures adopted by the Council of Ministers, which today calls for its endorsement of the House, is to attach sufficient tax resources to meet the deficit targets that we have committed, agreed with the European institutions for 2017. With this formulation - and we will already have the opportunity to talk about it in the next item on the agenda this morning in the Congress of Deputies - I would like to remind you that we are urged to reduce the public deficit by EUR 16 billion, from the deficit with which we are going to close this year 2016, by 4.6%, to 3.1%, which means making a great effort to weight it up. The fact that we undertake this effort with the corresponding measure leads us to call for the endorsement of measures of this kind, such as those we bring here, which are measures, I insist, necessary to meet that deficit target, which is the best way to consolidate economic recovery and job creation in our country as well. Measures in the tax field - which, although it is not necessary for me to spend too much time on the description as soon as possible - affect the revenue of the State, and concern the reform of corporation tax and excise duties in order to achieve a structural increase in collection, which we believe is the least detrimental to the continuity of growth and job creation. Always changing taxes has an effect on the economy and the government's option - spoken and agreed with other political groups and I will now refer to it - which brings to the House, is the most neutral way of collecting tax revenue in an economic situation like the one we are going through; we would still be promoting a structural income, which is also what calls for our European commitment equivalent to 0.5% of our gross domestic product. I repeat that the measures concern company tax and excise duties. The first of the measures on company tax means that, without changing the structure of the tax - which was the subject of a reduction in its tax rate and is now in force in Spain by 25% - without amending other substantial elements of the tax - the capitalization reserve and the levelling reserve are in force in Spain today, whose application still makes that nominal rate, instead of 25% in the case of SMEs, possible to remain at 20% - it does limit the deductibility of the tax base or the losses accumulated in previous years or certain tax grounds, such as the reversal of the loss of the loss of the representative values of equity holdings, or the modification of the regime of exemption of dividends and income from the transfer of own funds from resident and non-resident entities. That is to say, we are starting from the fact that the profits have increased in our country, and what we are limiting is the deductibility of the taxable base of those profits, but fortunately the business profits increase in Spain, and that is what Spain needs, which increases those business profits, and obviously those business profits, which are reflecting the economic recovery, also come from the reinvestment of those profits in the structure of the corporation tax, which I insist remains intact. Therefore change in corporate tax. The following is a moderate rise in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, the second of which is clearly for health reasons, i.e. to discourage consumption of those products which have negative effects not only on those who practice it, but on society as a whole. This is called in an economy that taxes negative externalities and justifies the very existence of excise duties. We therefore tax those taxes, but even with the rise we propose to the House, which is a very moderate increase, it is clearly below the taxes they bear at European level. The combination of these two increases would allow additional €4.8 billion to be raised in 2017; by the way, in the modification of corporate tax we have also followed the recommendation of other political groups who have been insisting that there was a capacity to deduct from the tax base on corporate tax. We are therefore responding to these demands, which is like healing corporate tax and leaving it so that effective tax rates get closer and go up to nominal rates as well, which we can only achieve progressively, but I understand that it is very favourable. To the impact of increased collection of 4.8 billion euros - which said they are completed in this way - is also proposed in the decree-law the reform of the General Tax Law, in order to expand the assumptions of tax debts that cannot be deferred or fractionated, with an important impact that we estimate of 1.5 billion euros additional, and that they have its basis on which today there is really a much more affordable access to the external financing of the companies, so we must not turn the Public Finance, the Tax Agency in charge of the financings, especially in the case of the VAT that have already been collected, because the retentions of the workers have already been subject to limitation. Please note that at the time we are drawing up this measure of limiting, limiting very much, if not denying, the retentions and yet today 540,000 jobs are being created in Spain, so much damage we did not do. When VAT bills have already been collected, the logical thing is that companies reserve them for admission to the public treasury and do not reserve them for their liquidity or treasury. It seems a rather elementary principle, because companies are not the last contributors of VAT, they are intermediaries of VAT, and therefore VAT is on your customer. That is also where we see the ability to reduce what today are tax debts, and which reach completely excessive proportions in Spain. All this is also complemented by the measures that we have also introduced - and are not the subject of the decree-law - in relation to the well-known DBP, which are the acronyms in English of the Interim Budget Plan that we have sent to the European Commission and by which we see that, together with a measure that is not necessary and does not have the rank of law, the actual decree in force constitutes the immediate supply of VAT information, allowing all this to complete the collection in our country up to 7.5 billion euros; that is to say, that almost half of the journey of reducing the deficit target for next year - which I insist will be the subject of debate on the next item on the agenda - will lead to that task. Along with all this the decree-law also has significant measures such as those relating to the potential income of the autonomous communities, which is a measure of extension of what already exists, which is the taxation of the property tax. These are measures that mainly affect the income of local entities, and by which the update coefficients of the cadastral values for 2017 are approved. This measure had been requested by 2,452 municipalities in the cadastre, and we have therefore taken full account of this update. The compensation for the abolition of the IGTE de Canarias is really a measure that must be taken not only in compliance with the agreement of the Joint Commission for Transfers of the State-Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, held on 16 November 2015, but also for giving the end of a period of compensation between the Canarian Finance and the State Finance, already twenty-five years since the abolition of this IGTE. In the social sphere there are measures concerning the increase of the maximum ceiling and maximum bases of contribution of the order of 3 %, and planning, in a legal forecast, increases of the maximum rate and maximum bases of contribution of the social security system. There is also the measure of the minimum interpersonal wage, which will be the subject of an increase, which corresponds to the Government, of 8 % in this year, which will entail an increase of 52.4 euros over its current value, also here with the prevention that it does not move to collective agreements. This is the content. I ended this presentation of the content by saying that these measures that the Government brings to the House for endorsement are not only on the Government's proposal, but are proposals from other political groups, the result of dialogue and understanding with those political groups. We must emphasize that value. It is the value of the concept of political stability that derives from the current situation of parliamentary representation in this House, which makes it inescapable and positive, and I insist on that because there are many issues that can be inescapable and harm essentially. But we are now in a political situation with a government supported by the People's Parliamentary Group, in a minority, and we have the need, obligation and opportunity to bring these measures to the Chambers not only - I insist - agreed, but also proposed by other parliamentary groups in order to provide solutions to what must be a common objective: the achievement of the reduction of the public deficit for the next financial year. Obviously the assessment of these measures has everything to do with the limit of the State's expenditure ceiling and the setting of deficit targets for the different levels of public administration in Spain. It therefore makes every sense for us on the agenda of the plenary of this House to propose the validation of this decree-law, and from there to move to the next point, where the measures would be incorporated as a fundamental, not only - I insist - basis for achieving the objectives of public deficit. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u32	Thank you very much. The joint parliamentary group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u33	Thank you, Madam President. In this first intervention I will focus on the subject of the IGTE, which is the one that affects the Canary Islands. The IGTE is a tribute that disappeared with the entry into force of the IGIC in 1993. From that moment on, the taxable facts that were taxed by the IGTE were absorbed by the canary tax. As a State tax, the General Administration of the State demanded that the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands return annually the share of the IGIC's revenues that corresponded to the sales, works, services and other contracts and traffic operations of all companies. The calculation was made on the IGIC's theoretical revenue forecasts. The disagreement between the Government of the Canary Islands and the Central Government as to whether or not to settle at the end of each financial year resulted in the accumulation of the debt for the period 1993-2007. In 2009 the two administrations agreed to liquidate the part of the IGIC corresponding to the extinct IGTE. The result was that the Canary Islands was forced to return some €405 million to the State Administration, and it was established that the payment of that debt would be made within a period of €33 million from 2012. This amount would be added to the retention of each year, which in the case of this year 2016 amounted to 159 million euros. The adoption of this decree in the Congress of Deputies is the certification of a historic achievement that puts an end to more than twenty years of claims and that will prevent the Canary Islands from having to pay the State some 160 million euros a year. In addition, it implies full legal guarantees on the firmness of the agreement adopted during the Joint Commission on Transfers held on 16 November 2015 on the islands. This means that the return of the ITE by the Canary Islands will no longer appear definitively in the State's revenue budget. I announce our support for the decree. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u34	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Martínez Oblanca, also for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. This royal decree-law introduced by Minister Montoro implies significant, immediate and impulsive changes in the tax field that contrast with what was stated during the investment debate in relation to taxes and that do not solve the fundamental problems, even if they are transitional measures over time. The mania of resorting to the maneuver of taxation is an easy but harmful resource, because it has negative effects for economic growth and job creation, priority objectives of Forum in Spain and Asturias. Once again, we stress that increased collection should not depend on higher tax rates or the creation or modification of new tax figures, but on increased economic activity. We insist on proposing as an alternative to tax increases the intelligent management of the concessional system, which in addition to increasing the revenues of the State, would have a positive effect on the competitiveness of the Spanish economy. Our programme supports us in rejecting tax measures that distort the development of private and business initiative and that should be avoided by further curbing unproductive public spending, amortizing debt and improving essential services. Finally, companies are harmed by this royal decree-law, because it involves altering the rules of the game at the end of their annual exercise. I conclude by pointing out that two months ago the Government brought in other collection measures, in that case, relating to the fractional payment of corporation tax. Then we warned them of their drawbacks and abstained. Today, the Government is impacting on collection measures that undermine the credibility of those who promise one thing on its agenda and forget it. This is not the case with the Forum and we will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Montoro, UPN has already announced that it will abstain in this vote. It seems to us that it is the most coherent and logical sense of vote, because the truth is that the content of this rule is very varied and has many subjects; of some we are in favour, of others we are against and others I will not say that they leave us indifferent, but we are neutral before their approval. Therefore, this is most logical. Among the things we do not share is the legislative technique. It makes a populary of very different things and, in the end, it is impossible to know what the meaning of your single vote is, whether you are in favor of one thing or another. We also have doubts about the extraordinary and urgent nature of some of the measures envisaged. Moreover, we do not share the philosophy that inspires it, which is the rise of taxes as a resource or general rule to meet the objectives committed. On some other issues, such as the changes in the cadastre, we will exercise a certain neutrality, as it is usually traditional in those rules that collect taxes in the common system communities, which do not affect us, and I also want to put it in value. In the next debate, I will insist on these two ideas. You have said that and I think consensus is good, and on important issues and on the path we have marked is fundamental, but sometimes focusing on music just as we forget the lyrics. It's true that parliamentary arithmetic is perverse... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u38	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u39	... but it would also not be advisable to sacrifice on the altar of that consensus certain principles and above all the philosophy that has inspired all the measures that have made us able to recover this situation. In any case, if it is treated as a bill, we will reserve the right to make any amendments if we wish to correct any of the shortcomings I have said to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u40	Also for the Joint Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I said that this initiative was the result of agreement with other political groups. You, we, and we know that of course not with Euskal Herria Bildu and therefore it is easy to predict the meaning of our vote, which will be contrary to these initiatives. The initiative - as noted in its own explanation - is merely a set of tax measures for the consolidation of a financial model. Then, in addition, as it appears in the title itself, there are other urgent social measures, but even the measures it proposes in the tax field for the consolidation of this financial model are profoundly unequal measures; they are measures that, from our point of view, do not advance even a millimeter in the path of equidistribution, that is, in an equidistributive model of taxation, but rather, quite the contrary, they advance in the logic of consolidating a model in the service of business interests that favors the generation of more wealth in this sector. That's probably why we don't talk about consolidating economic growth, an economic growth that may normally be sustained when Spanish people appear on the Forbes list of the richest people in the world and then, making the easy logic of statistics, we divide what they have together with others and it seems that everyone has a lot, when the reality is that wealth accumulates in very few hands. Social measures tell us about social security and the maximum contribution ceiling, when I think the problem is not there, the problem is what the future of social security is going to be and how we can sustain a public pension system for all citizens. I end with another question. He talks to us about the interprofessional minimum wage and presents it as a great achievement, but it is only a great setback to what this House had already approved and probably draws us a path of action from the government that has very little respect for the decisions that this House makes when they go contrary to its political line.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u42	Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor for Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u43	Thank you, President. Minister, I am speaking very quickly. This today is a tax hike in every rule, you can't hide it. At the outset, I should like to congratulate you, Minister, because you are finding a variable geometry in this very interesting Parliament. It has two partners, partners to raise taxes and other partners to cut expenses. The problem is that those who trusted you in your investiture feel trapped; and I'm talking about fellow citizens. And so trapped that you are, because today you are going to abstain or you are going to vote against, but you are going to be responsible for this tax increase; yes, you are going to be responsible for your budget for this tax increase to the self-employed. You can already process special laws for the self-employed, but you are also responsible for what is going to happen today, even if you vote against or abstain in this House. In any case, Minister, you say that this has been the result of agreement with other groups. Our group has not even had an opportunity to comment on this issue. We do not agree with what they are doing with corporation tax. We do not agree with what they are doing with the General Tax Law. It seems to us to be a barbarity, a total and absolute ignorance of the reality of small and medium-sized enterprises and of self-employed people who do not allow the fractionation and postponement of certain tax debts. We do not agree with some of the social measures they propose, beyond the modest increase in the inter-professional minimum wage. In any case, I appeal to all the groups in the House, but especially to Citizens and the Socialist Group. If you do not agree to one hundred percent with this royal decree, there is a solution. We're going to ask for your processing as a bill. They vote in favour and will be able to table amendments; if they do not do so and cannot table amendments, the Socialist Group, Citizens and the rest of the House will be saying that they fully agree, 100%, with the approach of this royal decree.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I will intervene very briefly because I do not want to fall within the scope of this decree-law, the tax sphere. In Euskadi there is capacity for self-regulation and in this kind of propositions, as is well known, the Basque Group usually abstains. On this occasion I am going to talk about other areas of the decree, but as the tax burden permeates everything, this will lead my group to abstain, although we agree with some of the measures proposed. Not with everything, but good. I insist that we are in a differentiated regime and we do not want to make the decision that can be made conditional on our vote. As for the updating of cadastral value indices, so much the same. In our case, it is up to the outside parliaments, which have not only recently updated the indices, but also the values, which will enter into force on 1 January, so this is not an issue that would affect us. In the area of social security, the updating of the bases is required pending a new budget. It makes sense to us, therefore, what the Government is proposing. Finally, there is the question of the interprofessional minimum wage. It is no secret that this proposal appeared in our programme. We are voting in favour of the bill tabled by another parliamentary group in the House, and we would like to see further work on this or other initiative, so that at the end of this parliamentary term, if possible, we can achieve what the recommendations of the Social Charter Europe say, that is, that the interprofessional minimum wage is 60% of the average net annual wage. In the meantime, while we wait for what can happen legislatively, that through the decree-law approved by this House we can already put into practice an ascent seems absolutely right to us. It is appropriate and it is not necessary to wait for what can then be decided, so this measure enjoys our support. In general, Mr Minister, the decree does not seem bad to us, but I do not want to go into tax matters, as is the tradition in my group, so since most of the matter falls within that area, we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Republican Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u47	Thank you very much. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning. The actual decree they present for validation today is a real omnibus decree, a population of measures basically linked to fiscal aspects, with relevant social consequences that do not have to coincide with the position of the common good. Firstly, you must comply with the deficit requirements set out by the European Commission and with the requirement that the European Union imposes on you of 5.5 billion and thus certify the electoral moratorium that Europe has granted you to reduce taxes temporarily in view of the elections. Secondly, they must comply with the agreements with the Socialist Party, with which they have agreed the deficit targets, with the return of the increase in the SMI. These measures, according to the Ministry of Finance, are expected to raise up to 7.5 billion more a year, and the focus is on increasing income exclusively by forgetting how much expenditure they could focus on, for example, the military or the duplicity of administrations, such as ministries with competencies fully transferred to autonomous communities. Among other measures, the coefficients for updating the cadastral values for 2017 are approved to strengthen municipal funding. They will allow me to make a very brief, two-paragraph parenthesis here. The Government itself proposes the measure as a way of strengthening municipal income. It should be recalled that municipalities suffer from the dysfunctions of a funding system that has been shown to be insufficient to cover all expenditure requirements. In this scenario, instead of facing the historic debate of municipalism with a new funding system, the Government chose to implement a series of policy changes focused on IBI and aimed at increasing income. We therefore believe that these tax measures do not attack the substance of the problem and concentrate the increase in tax pressure on a tax that leaves little room for introducing progressive criteria. One of these measures is the updating of cadastral values by applying linear coefficients. The inability of the cadastre to carry out periodic reviews has caused many municipalities to work with values calculated on the basis of papers of more than twenty-five years old, far removed from the reality of the real estate market. Although the updating of values by application of coefficients aims to correct this problem, the procedure incurs unfair situations insofar as it assumes the same percentage of revaluation for the whole territory and for all the buildings of the municipality, distinguishing only for the year of entry into force from the presentation of values. My colleague, Congresswoman Capella, has already pointed out the most serious of the artifice that you have mounted with the kick to follow from the advance collection in the company tax. For the sake of time, I will focus on three aspects of your royal decree: limitations of postponements, cooperatives and social measures. With regard to deferral restrictions, we consider it particularly serious to introduce VAT deferral restrictions, as well as to prohibit the deferral of deductions and payments on account, in particular of advance split corporate tax payments. The liquidity of SMEs will be affected by these measures. The elimination of deferred payments of all types of taxes to the Treasury is a practice commonly used by companies to overcome specific treasury tensions. Some calculations amount to 20% of SMEs using this mechanism to deal with the payment of fees. In the specific case of payment of VAT, it will have a very important impact on the world of SMEs, since it is common for them to ask for tax deferrals because of the lack of punctual liquidity that can be suffered or because of the lateness of their customers - the lateness, Minister, that great subject to which you have never presented yourself -. The tightening of deadlines for paying taxes to the Administration will pose a major problem for self-employed people and small businesses. Until now, all companies could split or postpone their debts with the Administration from the beginning of the voluntary payment period until after the deadline, presenting a payment schedule and the reason for the delay. It was not a bad deal for the public finances, because the postponement was not free: for debts of less than EUR 30,000, the interest of delay was 3,7 % or 3 % if a payment guarantee was presented on a voluntary basis. Given the difficulty of accessing bank loans, the mechanism has so far been used as an alternative method of financing companies. Minister, we know your view that the financial markets are already open and have accessible interest rates, but the reality is not so easy. Companies can't get new loans from banks so easily. You say that if companies are not solvent banks do not lend money and this is the basic reason why postponements are allowed. That's simple, isn't it?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You guys go to the bank. We stop trusting the SME and give business to the bank's friends. Round. Once again it is clear which side you are on. The fact of asking for a deferral of taxes does not mean that the company is about to break down. Again I quote: We are aware that there have been some abuses, but the state is collecting VAT, companies pay and the level of non-compliance with this postponement is very low. Are you sure? Could it lead to possible closures of companies because of the new legislation? Is the new situation expected to result in an avalanche of defaults and companies declaring themselves insolvent? Won't the cure be worse than the disease? The elimination of tax deferrals is designed exclusively to meet the fiscal deficit promised to Brussels. It is not intended to help the taxpayer, but to reduce the public deficit. Also, as always, improvisation as a rule. People haven't noticed and we'll suffer. It is a measure that already affects the fourth quarter VAT collection and does not allow any financial planning of SMEs. Yesterday's news seems to indicate that Hacienda has agreed to study the possibility of continuing to allow the postponement of the payment of VAT. The ATA has been optimistic about the negotiations. [[Rumors]] Any prudent approach would indicate that, upon entry, the Ministry of Finance would allow at least 2017 for self-employed and small businesses to continue to postpone payment of VAT to a certain amount regardless of whether it has been charged. This would be a good time to announce that minimum moratorium, Minister. It would also be a good lenitivity for his friends from Citizens, who, as Don Ferrán Bel pointed out, today is hitting a goal in time of discount. [[Rumors]] They agree to move forward in the area of self-government and put them behind... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u48	One second, Your Honor. [[Mr. Capdevila i Esteve: But stop the clock, because I only have...]] Excuse me, yes, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not call the order one by one because I prefer to tell you together. I think there's some attitude that's already out of line. Please remain silent if you are in the Chamber. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u49	I'm sorry, because maybe I'm very boring and I also contribute. [[Laughter]] I was telling you, Minister, that you agree with Citizens to move forward in the area of self-government and you are putting them at the most risk for SMEs and self-government from behind. Cooperatives. I have to narrow it down to one sentence. You have never taken the cooperative economy seriously. As far as social measures are concerned, we note that the new dialogue has not gone too far in this field. It is about getting the opposition's essential votes to pass the maroma and pay them with an 8% increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, which is not at the top of the dialogue. As its vice-president - who was here before - with the Catalan challenge: for the moment, dialogue with the lips, but only with those who are on our side and only forced by parliamentary insufficiency; a little that of making the need virtue. You lack the forms when the social partners have to learn from the press; neither the Toledo Pact nor employers nor trade unions. This will lead to things having to be said on the street; UGT and Workers' Commissions convene more than sixty demonstrations and rallies between the 15th, today, and the 18th of December. For all this and because we do not want to be subjected to a reductionist headline, we will abstain and invite you to show palpably that we are wrong about your new dialogue. Please reconsider the measures to postpone the payment of entry VAT and allow, as we will ask you, this decree-law to pass the most democratic filter of being processed as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u50	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Montoro, you've got a decree that's a real tailor's drawer. The mix of affairs is so varied that I have come to mind the definition of art that André Breton, leader of the surrealist movement, gave me. He said that art is the fortuitous encounter between a sewing machine and an umbrella on a dissection table. That reminds me of this decree, of a real surrealist work of art. Let's be serious, not because André Breton isn't serious. How hasty for some things and how hasty for others. How little hasty for measures to combat fraud, which are missing, some as urgent as the immediate provision of information by large companies, which thought we all agreed that it was extremely urgent, or the public sector audit, which is also missing. For this there is no rush; there is only rush to raise taxes. As varied as it may be, there are things in his decree that we agree with; of course, how you will not agree on some things with that mixture. In some, we agree, but in others, we do not agree; it is already advanced that our position will be abstention and that we will ask that Royal Decree 3/2016 be treated as a bill. In that regard, I welcome Mr Bel, because even though he has preceded me in the use of the floor in this rostrum, those who join in the request to treat him as a bill are you to us. Luckily we have a proof, and it is that that great divulger of the arid tax matter that we have in our ranks, Francisco de la Torre, had published that intention before you spoke. [[Applauds]] I'll start with something serious. They have increased the contribution ceilings - that ugly word of unemployment or unemployment - they have increased the contributions of companies and employees. If it is to open the Toledo Pact, let's do it to reach an agreement, let's not open it unilaterally, because then it makes it very difficult for us - as we can see - to validate it. You have also leaked to the press that you will end up facilitating VAT deferrals to the self-employed. It is more or less informal, more or less informal information that I believe was given yesterday by your Secretary of State at an event organized by Deloitte; it is such detailed information that it even explains how far you are going to give instructions to breach what you are now asking us to validate. They say it will be up to 30,000 euros and for twelve months. If you have it so clear, why don't you include it already in the decree-law? It doesn't make much sense. Unless you change your position again today, now or within half an hour, what we know is that what brings us here to ask for validation hardens the postponements, hardens them a lot. I've been autonomous for many years, and that's not a problem because it depends on a bank, it depends on the problems you've been through. We have come from years in which the self-employed have been withdrawn from credit lines, their idea that in VAT the self-employed is nothing more than an intermediary because he is making a collector is true about the role and in daily reality what is true is that many self-employed people live as they can and with what they have in the bank they are doing their treasury management badly than badly, in a bad way. That is the truth and the reality of the autonomous fits very badly - and you know it because at the same time they are negotiating with their representatives - with hardening the postponements. I'm asking you to be clear. Do we harden them or don't we harden them? Because if they harden you cannot be validated and the fact is that in the decree-law they harden and you will explain - I hope - how it is possible that you are communicating at the same time that by instruction that will be rendered ineffective. I personally do not understand it, and from a legal point of view I find it incomprehensible. So, even in that announcement that you are making to reassure autonomous organizations, I am very skeptical and I have to express myself skeptical with your promises, with your commitments, with the pacts that you sign, and I am skeptical. Your Government's promises are not very reliable when you pass through the crack of your department, Mr. Montoro. Your apartment has a cedade like that of the gold seekers, as soon as you see, intuit or columbra that there is a nugget, that someone may get to have the remote expectation of generating wealth is you there to take it away. [[Applauds]] Excuse me, Mr Montoro, the tax matter is arid and politics has something more rhetoric, but what I'm telling you is true, it's something decorated but it's true. The truth is that you are a good manager of yours, but it represents at this time a problem and a threat to those who want to recover after a very hard stage because you and you also carry in the DNA the collecting anxiety, then you do not conceive another way to get revenue for the Administration and that collecting anxiety - I insist - is already in your DNA. [[Noting the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Because if in your DNA, gentlemen of the People's Party, there was ever the idea that the virtuous thing was to lower taxes that DNA has already mutated, you're already the same. [[Applauds]] The truth of their intention to postpone has been told to Brussels, who is difficult to disguise and has explained that they intend to raise with this hardening EUR 1.5 billion. I don't know if you can explain to Don Lorenzo Amor about the EUR 1.5 billion or just explain it to Brussels. In your insatiable voracity, Mr Montoro, there have been exceptions, I acknowledge that. But these exceptions coincide with the election years. Last year, which curiously culminated in general elections, you did that, you lowered taxes. It was unusual in the history of Mr. Rajoy's People's Party - not Mr. Aznar's - that you in particular had to suffer, and I admit and acknowledge the sacrifice you had to make to lower taxes. But, as the only calculation behind that beautiful gesture was of an electoralist type, the expenditure was also out of control at the same time and the reduction in corporation tax affected the 2016 accounts. You are now obliged to a huge adjustment, we are all obliged, Spain is obliged to a huge adjustment and you manage it, it is a very serious issue. Now, that there are no elections in sight - I hope, except that yesterday's President's lapsus is more than that - I understand that we have to do those things, but you do it without contemplation. You have recently increased split corporate tax payments; €9 billion, no less, in advances next year. But where do we come from? We come from Law 27/2014, which led to large companies in Spain paying the lowest rate of cash in history. That's where we came from; they're certain bandages we've been giving. Of course, the reform of company tax is necessary, that is clear, but in its decree, apart from the necessary reforms, we see this thing of easy collection, that 5%, for example, in high-grade beverages and intermediate products, and above all - and I am very concerned about this - a great mystery or not so much, that you bring us here only excise taxes, but to Brussels you explain that they are excise and environmental taxes, and that your calculation is to collect 850 million euros, 600 of which are expected to be collected by means of increased taxation of fuels. This, logically, is something that will affect the middle class and at that point we get to the core. How long do you think you can squeeze, suck, explode, milk the Spanish middle class, Mr Montoro? In short, we cannot support this because of your relentless procrastination of the fight against fraud in large companies, because of the way in which you repeatedly - you certainly postpone - postpone the necessary public sector audit. We cannot support you here for deflating the contributions and opening the Toledo Pact unilaterally. We cannot support him by tightening the delays in the payment of VAT by the self-employed or by accompanying this with messages that are inconsistent with the rules. We cannot support him because of his accredited tendency to uncontroll public spending and to reduce taxes only in the election year, or because of his compulsion to collect money...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u52	Mr. Girauta, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u53	Yeah, I'm done. So, please, I'm asking for restraint, I'm asking you to let the middle class breathe, I'm asking you to let us breathe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u54	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u55	Today Mr Montoro brings us here a salad of legislative amendments in the form of a royal decree aligned to the taste of the Socialist Party. As a basis, it has put a rise in excise duties, which are those that everyone pays equally, regardless of income, it has adapted it with some patches to the tax hole in the corporation tax, with a necessary detachment to the contribution bases and with a 30% lower rise in the SMI than it was already approved in this House just a few weeks ago. In order to separate the grain from the straw in this royal decree, we request that it be treated as a bill in order to amend those parts that do not seem appropriate to us. However, it must be recognized that these measures have nothing to do with those that Montoro presented here in the previous legislature before we arrived and that they were the ones that catapulted him to fame; measures such as the tax amnesty, which allowed to evade taxes and to leave from rosites to many of his defrauding friends; the law that is known by its name and that drowns financially the municipalities; the reform of the corporation tax that halved the collection; and the budgets that he presented here in the previous legislature and that perpetuated cuts in health and education that reached more than EUR 20 billion in these matters. Montoro's not who he was anymore. What's wrong with you, Mr. Montoro? Perhaps it has been taken into account that the measures that you have adopted here in the previous parliamentary term have only served to delay growth, to bring debt to 100 per cent of GDP, to damage the welfare state and to trigger inequality. When during the election campaigns in his party he was not allowed to continue with the cuts, he was surprised that then the economy began to grow. We've been telling him for two years: austerity kills growth. Nor should it be well for you that the OECD and other international institutions, and even timidly the European Commission, began to say something similar when you were only talking here about tightening your belt and controlling the deficit. This year Mr Montoro has had to stop ruling for his own and he has started to back down, starting by amending himself and undoing the company tax reform he had created himself. We celebrate. However, the one who held back, and in the exhibition of this royal decree Montoro again displays that exaltation and passion he has for austerity measures when he says that the spending ceiling saves 5 billion compared to last year's budget execution. Those $5 billion that says they're saved, they're saved by the non-availability agreement, which in the end involves covert cuts. It should be remembered that those 5 billion that he presumes are the same ones that we will play to pay for the ransom of the scam of the radial highways, the vulture funds and the companies of IBEX 35, which were the ones that built them. [[Applauds]] We live in a country where if you run a bank, an electric company or a builder you can make the suicidal investments you want because then the same politicians who came out of the picture at the opening with you as director of the company rescue you when the investment goes wrong. However, if you're an autonomous and you fail once, you can end up in debt for life, and that can't be allowed anymore. This royal decree also includes some patches to slightly increase income. Do you really think that by collecting EUR 150 million from alcohol and tobacco taxes we are going to solve the income problems that exist in this country? How much does it intend to collect for the measures it presents with the corporation tax? Because in the royal decree there is no figure. The estimates we have made are not flattering at all. In a word, his fiscal policy is a shambles, he's going to bounce away from the very shambles he's leaving and he's got to constantly amend himself. So I'm not surprised that you even read it to give it to the button to vote for a GNP. [[Applauds]] By the way, this royal decree also extends the property tax, which was eliminated by the Socialist Party of Zapatero, and since then it has had to be extended year by year; another more important tax, in this case the PSOE. Unfortunately, in the area of economic policy there is no button to undo and the opportunity cost of a bad decision ends up being paid by all citizens over the years. What you are presenting here today, Mr Montoro, is not a serious tax reform, it is not a tax reform for a country that aspires to be in the engine of the European economy. Spain needs to increase public revenue in order to reduce the eight-point gap from the EU average, and we are not going to achieve this with tobacco and alcohol taxes and two patches of corporate tax. This country is no longer for cod, Mr Montoro, we have to make a decision: either we are approaching the European Union's levels of revenue collection, revenue and expenditure or we are approaching the levels of income and expenditure of the underdeveloped countries. What we need are no longer patches, we need a comprehensive and progressive tax reform, we need to implement measures to combat tax fraud because we are missing EUR 80 billion each year. The tax agency needs to be reorientated so that it is dedicated to investigating big fortunes and big companies, which are the ones that are escaping; it is currently 70 % dedicated to investigating SMEs and self-employed people. The deductions from IRPF must be eliminated, a minimum corporate tax imposed on large companies must be established and holes must be effectively closed. In addition, we must also bet on a green tax and a specific VAT for luxury goods, so that Ana Mato's Jaguar does not pay the same VAT taxes as a bicycle. We believe that this is the way that they would also like to follow the Socialist Party's deputies if they left their bosses, and perhaps also some of the citizens, but realize that if the lettuce is rotten, it's not worth a bit...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u56	Mr. González, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u57	I'm done right now. If the lettuce is rotten, it's no use dressing it with a little vinegar and you have to stop dancing the water and putting patches on the PP's sloppy policies in exchange for crumbs. Join us to work on a 180-degree turn in this country's economic policy to get it off the underdevelopment path before it's too late. If you don't believe it, do it at least so that my generation has a country to prosper in or a country to return to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u58	Thank you very much. Also by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-In Communal Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Vidal Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u59	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If Minister Montoro's fiscal policy is a shambles, what about the poverty, precariousness and deregulation that Minister Báñez has left behind, by the way, today not present. [[The lady]] In this decree we find a couple of social measures, yes, measures that sound like guiño, that is not minor, but that remain short and are clearly insufficient. In United Podemos-In Communal Podemos-In Marea we agree to raise the top of the maximum bases as shown in Articles 9 and 10, but you establish a 3% increase, a pyrical rise that we interpret more as a gesture than as a policy of scope, a gesture that goes in the right direction, but that is irrelevant and isolated, and therefore insufficient. It's a maneuver to somehow generate deceptive headlines. Pensions are a fundamental pillar not only for the lives of thousands of people, but also for our economy. We have a viable but insufficient system and this is going through difficulties, as a result of the policies of the People's Party - waste, cuts, precariousness - and its funding needs to be guaranteed. We're not just talking about the strength of the pension system, we're talking about sufficiency, about guaranteeing decent pensions, enough pensions, that's what we're talking about. Today, the biggest threat to pensions in our country is called the People's Party. We need resources and we have a chance. I always say, in politics love is demonstrated in budgets. Well, it seems that so far we are not pouring much love on the part of this government towards pensioners. We also find in your decree an additional provision with the fixing of the minimum wage for 2017 with an increase of 8%, unfortunately not the result of a prior consultation with trade unions and employers' organizations, as laid down in Article 27.1 of the Workers' Statute, which seems that you, comrades of the Socialist Party, sometimes forget the most important, but precisely an agreement with you. A rise in the minimum wage is always to be celebrated, especially in Spain, where, unfortunately today, it falls below the poverty line, but, once determined, we should ask ourselves some questions. Is it enough this climb that the People's Executive is presenting to us today? If you answer alone, no. It is not a question of increasing by 8 %, 3 % or 10 %. The rise in the inter-professional minimum wage cannot be measured in terms of so many percent, but must be measured in criteria of sufficiency and dignity and 8% is not enough or worthy because 707 euros are not enough or worthy for a minimum wage in our country. But why now? Because you feel ashamed, because in the face of the proposal to improve the minimum wage presented by our group and approved, by the way, in this House, something had to be done. It has been years and years to look at the musarañas, years and years of turn between the People's Party and the Socialist Party without doing what it played, rising and adjusting the minimum wage in our country. Years and years, and the trigger, of course, is in this case the proposal of law of our group and now try to conceal their responsibility in the painful situation of the minimum wage in our country. But in exchange for the Socialist Party coming back from the Popular Party? In exchange for approving the spending ceiling that continues to justify the austerity that destroys our economy and our country, in exchange for foci and platters, in exchange for ignoring social dialogue, in exchange for legitimizing a government that rules against people. Is it an action to try to conceal a possible vote in favour perhaps of budgets of the People's Party? Let's see if we are going to stand in front of a Socialist Party that in the commissions, when nothing is played, votes and agrees with the majority alternative to the People's Party, but that here, when the important thing is played, they go from the handle of Mariano Rajoy's Executive. Doctor Jekyll and Mister Hyde; Jekyll because it supports recovery measures and Hyde because it bargains behind the back with the junkies of precariousness. That's what you're doing. Take, please, the path of light, stop providing governments and dancing water to the People's Party, sum up the responsible opposition, responsible with our peoples and with our people, responsible with the necessary rise, in accordance with the European Social Charter, and responsible for making it a more just country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Mr López Milla has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you gave us a very unenthusiastic presentation this morning, I believe, and even a little sluggish and with a point of disappointment, if I may. And what I believe is that we must start with the most obvious and the most obvious thing is that the history of five years ago is repeated again, of that election campaign that you made promising tax cuts so that after one of the first steps of the new government was the increase in taxes, as has happened now. I imagine that this time you will not blame any inheritance received, Mr Montoro, because in this case, after five years in the government, all the inheritance is yours. Yours is the legacy of having to face an adjustment, yours is the legacy of not having been able to meet the commitments you have made with the European Commission, yours is the legacy of having diverted more than €9 billion from the deficit target in 2015 and yours is also the legacy of having risked that deviation in meeting the deficit target for having made a tax gift to high incomes and large companies. Moreover, your responsibilities do not end there because you were able to use the 2016 budgets to frame the situation, but you preferred to make them a mere instrument of the electoral campaign of the People's Party, inflating the revenues with the aim of hiding the loss of revenue that was necessary to hide in order to carry out that bad so-called tax reform, an electoral scheme that, as the European Commission has shown, for example, in the case of the income tax of individuals, benefits each taxpayer of the decile with more income exactly the same as twenty-one taxpayers of the decile with less income and which, of course, does not help in anything to those who least enter because they do not pay IRPF but are paying fees, they are paying co-payments, they are paying taxes and they are bearing cuts in public services and public policies that are more necessary precisely for those who have less income. In fact, today you bring us here, in this royal decree-law, a reform of corporation tax, which is just in the opposite direction of what was approved in 2014. In 2014 you eliminated payments on account and amended the tax to lower the actual rate of large companies. He then found that the collection came to the ground and had to recover the fractional payments and now has to eliminate reductions and widen tax bases. This reform, in the view of the Socialist Group, is going in the right direction, it is finally going in the right direction, and that is why we are going to support it, but this does not mean that we have ceased to think that a comprehensive and in-depth review of corporate tax is pending; that is, a review that must be made in order to avoid the instability caused by changes in the Government's approach over the past two years. In this regard, I might remind you, Minister, that, for example, the Congressional Finance Commission recently adopted a non-legislative proposal calling on you to put in place some kind of mechanism to tax the diverted profits through cross-border tax engineering operations, which in some places is known as the Google rate, which helps to make the taxes a company pays in our country even partially reflect the volume of activity it carries out in it. It is true that this has to be done in compliance with international conventions, it has to be done within the framework of the decisions taken in the European institutions - we are aware of this - but you should not rule out the possibility of taking some kind of unilateral measure, as other countries have already done, if the negotiations to adopt the directives contained in the package proposed by the European Commission are blocked. In the last election campaign the socialists told the citizens that it would not be possible to lower taxes, that it would even be likely that some tax would have to be increased, but that the important thing was that tax increases did not depend on average incomes and on workers. There were other people, including a candidate like Mr Rajoy, who said a few months ago that raising taxes would be a huge mistake and a big mistake. Even his party's secretary general stated that a People's Party government would not only not raise taxes, but would lower them. And in the first week of June you yourself fell into the temptation to announce that in 2017 there would be room to lower the IRPF, when it was clear that it would no longer be possible to lower the IRPF or lower any other tax. In addition, yesterday in Congress, in response to parliamentary control you said that you did not intend to raise VAT or any other tax. You said that yesterday, Minister, and today you have come here with a royal decree and in the exhibition you have spoken of changing taxes, raising more public revenue, and at one point the expression 'up' has been added to you. Yeah, he talked about raising taxes. In any case, beyond rhetorical resources, my group prefers that your words be highlighted and that, in the end, the adjustments, the ones to be made, the ones that you have to do for your own inheritance, be made through income, primarily by resorting to corporation tax; better so to do so by subjecting more cuts and more sacrifices to the vast majority of the citizenry. Of course, if it had been otherwise, my group would not have been able to support it and would have had to seek parliamentary support elsewhere. I would also like to point out that one of the reasons that leads us to vote in favour of this royal decree is that it includes a very important provision that will allow the autonomous communities to continue to collect the property tax next year. It is a tax figure that is taxing a very small percentage of taxpayers, a very small percentage of the population, to owners of large estates, and that is essential for some autonomous communities to meet, even get close to, the deficit target, such as Catalonia. But I also have to remind you that this is a tax that for years needs a thorough reform, and here I have no problem in making self-criticism. It has to be a tax capable of correctly taxing all forms of wealth ownership and a tax that prevents tax competition from occurring downwards between the different autonomys, because that competition is not only breaking the Spanish tax space, but it ends up basically favoring the great fortunes. One measure of this royal decree that we also welcome is the one that has to do with Social Security. We welcome the fact that, after five years of doing virtually nothing, if you have remained virtually impassable when you see the pension fund being emptied, the Government accepts a proposal from the Socialist Party that goes in the right direction, such as the elimination of maximum ceilings and the maximum contribution base. We understand that the urgency of the situation in which the pension system is located, which you had basically not referred to so far, obliges that path to be opened through this royal decree in order to be able to raise the ceilings. But we want to insist that all the decisions that have to do with this matter be taken, from now on, in the Parliamentary Committee for the Monitoring and Evaluation of the Agreements of the Toledo Pact and also in the framework of the social dialogue, which are two areas of agreement very abandoned by the People's Party Government during its years of absolute majority. And not only did you abandon the social dialogue and the Toledo Pact Agreements Commission, but another consequence of the absolute majority of the People's Party has been the practice of freezing the interprofessional minimum wage over the past five years. It has only grown by EUR 14 over the past five years, even below what is necessary for workers to retain their purchasing power. The decree that we are going to validate today envisages, under a proposal from the Socialist Party to the Government, an increase of 52 euros per month, 731 euros per year, which will be the highest of the last three decades and comparable only to the increases that took place in the years of the Government of José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero. This increase will be sufficient to compensate for the loss of purchasing power suffered by the people who charge it since the outbreak of the crisis, even allowing them to earn about 3 percentage points of purchasing capacity. For the Socialist Group, the fact that this rise is going to have immediate effects and that it is not at the dawn of the processing of a bill or that the Government can eventually veto it is essential. It is an immediate, urgent relief for hundreds of thousands of workers who have endured all the tax, tax and co-payments of the Rajoy Government over the past five years and who have certainly not benefited from the tax amnesty or its tax rebates for high incomes and large corporations. They are workers who suffer from the precariousness generated by the labour reform of the People's Party and the main ones affected by cuts in public services. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party does not, of course, give up on the fact that the inter-branch minimum wage reaches 60% of the net average wage in the coming years. What is happening is that it seems that there are some of your ladies and gentlemen who think that this measure adopted today is a kind of obstacle to achieving that objective. We believe that it is not, on the contrary, that the measure contained in this Royal Decree is the way in which, in the short term since the constitution of the Government, the difference between the current minimum wage and the European Social Charter is significantly reduced by more than EUR 52. Ladies and gentlemen, in these weeks since the formation of the new government, an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage will have been achieved, multiplying by four those carried out in the previous five years by the government of Mariano Rajoy. This is the result. For the Socialist Party there is no better way to get to the end of the road than to start going along it, and although we still have a good stretch in terms of the interprofessional minimum wage, today we have left behind, fortunately, a part of that road that had to be taken. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. López Milla. Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. My parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of the validation of Royal Decree-Law 3/2016, and we do so from the full conviction that the tax and fiscal policy of the People's Party government has been successful and has been one of the key pieces for Spain to be at the forefront of growth and job creation in Europe today. We do not share the statements made by some of the spokesmen and, in particular, Mr Girauta, who spoke of us asphyxiating the middle classes and the self-employed. On the contrary, the fiscal and tax policy of this government has given oxygen to the Spanish economy. We are growing double that Germany or triple that France thanks to that fiscal and tax policy that it injected into the pockets of families and in the pockets of SMEs and the self-employed €9 billion, which generated economic activity and is creating more than half a million jobs per year. We therefore believe that we cannot lose the north now, because meeting our commitments to budgetary stability has to be a priority for all groups in this House and is the necessary requirement to further consolidate that growth and that job creation; and that, for us, is a very powerful first reason. This royal decree is indeed born of dialogue and consensus with other political forces, which we believe is no longer good but necessary in this legislature because the Government cannot govern alone. We need to give stability to this legislature working together, and we think it is very good that it is that dialogue and consensus that has managed to reach agreement on the spending ceiling, on the adoption of the stability objectives and also on this actual decree. Furthermore, we are going to vote in favour because a very selective tax increase is being made, and you know it. It will not harm the majority of families, SMEs and self-employed, whose taxation will not be increased. On the contrary, we have made a tax reform that has benefited them. Also, in this area, we believe that a broad consensus should be reached on the part of all, because you had similar tax proposals in your programmes as we have adopted here today. Here I think there's a lot of political hypocrisy. We have a new public deficit scenario to meet, indeed. We need to reduce the public deficit by 1.5 points in 2017 and in order to achieve those goals, the Government does not want to reduce expenditure. I do not think anyone in this House wants that reduction, but, logically, the square of the circle does not exist: we will have to do it through income. The Government's estimate is that we will need to increase our revenues by €7.5 billion. And how does he do it? With tax measures that are fair and equitable. It requires more effort from those who can contribute the most, which are the big companies, and it does not affect at all figures such as the IRPF or VAT, which have a greater impact on families, self-employed people and SMEs. Moreover, as you know, they are part of the good tax practices of the countries in our environment and of the recommendations of the international bodies, including the European Union and, by the way, the International Monetary Fund itself, which this week has improved its growth forecasts for Spain and has made some recommendations on which the Minister of Finance has already shown his disagreement with raising taxes and much less VAT in sectors as strategic for Spain as it is tourism. Therefore, this regulatory text includes a very moderate increase in indirect taxation of certain products, such as tobacco and alcohol, whose consumption obviously has a negative impact in terms of public health and also serves to bring our collection closer to the countries in our environment. As you know, there are also reforms in the tax on companies that basically affect large companies and consolidated groups and that bring effective taxation closer to nominal rates of tax, nominal rates that are not changed in this royal decree and that this government, the People's Party government, reduced in the past legislature also for SMEs and self-employed people, from 30% to 25% and even to 20% for SMEs and self-employed people. I don't understand what they don't like about these measures. In their interventions they have been critical of this government's tax policy and I don't understand what they don't like, because, as I told them, the square of the circle is not possible: it is not possible to lower income, increase expenditure and meet our path of fiscal consolidation. Stop telling Chinese stories to citizens, because we no longer believe in Chinese stories. Spain cannot now afford the luxury of party dissent. We have to make decisions that benefit all Spaniards. Therefore, call bread, bread, and wine, wine, and if we have to vote yes, because they agree with the content, with the tax measures, they vote yes; to profile does not get us out of anything. [[The lady]] I say this because, for example, Podemos carried in his election program a simpler corporation tax, with effective rates that approach nominal rates, eliminating deductions in corporation tax. This is just what this royal decree does. It must be that in order to say yes to something coming from the People's Party it is to abstain. Podemos's yes is abstention. And what about Citizens? They cannot use the alibi of the rise of excise duties for 150 million to profile themselves with a reform of the corporation tax that will collect 4,650 million of the big companies and consolidated groups and that is also within the one hundred and fifty commitments that they signed with the People's Party. The number 4 was to reform the corporation tax to close holes and collect more without raising the nominal rates of this tax, with the aim of bringing the effective rates of large companies closer to the nominal ones; just what this royal decree does; no more or less. Why then doesn't Citizen support validation? Being in the procession and repeating the bells is not possible and moreover it is not time in Spain to be in that position. Trying to get along with everyone is impossible. You claim to defend the autonomous - we too, of course - but it is that the words have to be endorsed with the facts, Mr Girauta. An initiative by Podemos called for the minimum interprofessional wage to be raised by 45% in three years and was approved with its abstention. Have you thought how that would affect the self-employed who claim to defend? Because it's absolutely unworkable. However, the reasonable, common sense measure, which includes this royal decree, which has been agreed with the Socialist Group, is a moderate increase in the interprofessional minimum wage - 8% - at a time when we can afford it. So when we have to vote yes yes yes and when we have to vote no no, we have to call bread, bread and wine wine. It is true that the conditions to request postponements are changed, but it is that the conditions of our economy thanks to the reforms, thanks to the correct tax and fiscal policy, have changed and the businesses have customers, which is most important, who have customers. There is economic activity, the self-employed open their blinds and enter customers because they have improved consumption thanks to sound economic policy. When the Tax Agency had to help the self-employed and the SMEs did so and the postponements and splits were fired exponentially, but now the economic conditions are different and we have to achieve some goals that I believe we share. Finally, we cannot permanently question the commitment of the People's Party Government to the fight against fraud because it has been precisely the most combative in that struggle and works are love and not good reasons. Over 50 billion have been raised in the past parliamentary term in the fight against fraud. We have an agency, the tax agency, with enormous prestige. In it the best professionals work and pursues fraud with tremendous effectiveness, so let's not be with the usual nut because it gives the feeling that nothing is done in the fight against fraud. Therefore - I am finishing, ladies and gentlemen - we hope that you will support the validation...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u64	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u65	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u66	No, no, I'm going, no, Your Honor, it's not going to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u67	Thank you very much. Our vision is to get 20 million Spaniards working in 2020, to create 2 million jobs in this legislature. That is our goal and we believe that this royal decree will help us to achieve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u68	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u69	We continue with the items on the agenda relating to the Government's agreement adjusting the objective of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and each of their subsectors for 2016 and to the Government's agreement setting the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and each of their subsectors for the period 2017-2019 and the non-financial expenditure limit of the State budget for 2017. They will be discussed cumulatively, as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons. In order to present the agreements, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the approval by the Government of the non-financial expenditure limit and the objective of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations is the first step in our budgetary cycle and I am very honoured to represent the Government in a step that opens up the elaboration of general state budgets for the 2017 financial year and for the entire parliamentary term until 2019. I would also like to stress that this proposal that the Government is bringing to the House today is shared. It is a proposal of objective, the result of political dialogue, of parliamentary dialogue, but not only of dialogue in terms of contrast but also of coincidences, to coincide in the fundamental, which is what demonstrates the capacity for dialogue and understanding: to agree in the fundamental, to open a scenario for our public administrations where our public administrations can work more effectively for the benefit of the citizens. What we are bringing today, therefore, is the fruit of that dialogue, it is the triumph of politics, and this is what the Government's proposal is really supposed to represent this morning, as the Government understands it. It is real politics to work for what voters have chosen us, for society, which in these political circumstances means working for understanding with political formations. That is why this proposal by the Government, with the approval of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which demonstrated this dialogue, this capacity for understanding between the different levels of government that make up the State of self-government in Spain, is a priority. We have to take advantage of this situation of dialogue, we have to use it intelligently with one objective: to promote the economic recovery of our country, to promote job creation. This year, 2016, with a government in office, will create at least around 520,000 or 540,000 new jobs, according to the labour force survey, and even more in terms of social security membership. That is what we need to preserve: the job-creating economic recovery; that economic recovery is the one that ends with populism and radicalism in politics, economic recovery, growth and employment, which brings well-being and equal opportunities to people in Spain, Europe and the rest of the world. And that is what this government brings, a commitment to that economic recovery, to that growth and, above all, to job creation, and all this is about reducing the public deficit, it is about Europe, because we are Europe, we are part of that process of European integration, we are an essential part and, as Spain shows Europe and the world that from this House there are the foundations for political stability, for political agreements, we are making this presentation to Europe and to the world, and our joint commitment must be to reducing the public deficit. Reducing the public deficit facilitates economic recovery and job creation. The reduction of the public deficit facilitates the financing of such economic recovery and job creation; it facilitates that every year there are many more, thousands of self-employed people in Spain, thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises opening up, thousands of jobs created, by new and existing ones. That is the economic growth, the recovery of investment, the investment that thousands of companies are making in our country, the recovery of opportunities that it represents to be able to continue to invest outside our country by those companies and the recovery also means the continuity of the internationalization of the economy, once we have achieved a model of economic growth with historical export peaks. The Government's proposal is a twofold one. Firstly, it consists of public deficit reduction objectives - those set out in the new path committed to the European institutions - for all public administrations; that is the first compromise, the first proposal and this is the one voted by the House, which, according to the Budget Stability Act, today we propose to the House for its vote. Along with this - as a report, in order to understand us - we bring the project of the state's expenditure limit. This draft is not put to the House's vote, since it is the embryo, the first phase that will then lead to the general state budgets. Therefore, we bring that proposal already formed and consolidated with the rest of our public administrations in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and in the National Commission of Local Administration. I insist that this proposal is coherent, consistent and fully coupled with the reduction of the planned public deficit with the European institutions. Already earlier this morning I was telling the House that we are facing a great demand for a reduction in the public deficit. That explains the adoption of tax measures, which have been the subject of the previous debate, and that also explains that we can have continuity in the reduction of the public deficit, programming a balanced and weighted reduction between our public administrations to ensure that public expenditure in our country really has the resources to be provided efficiently for our citizens. That means meeting the public deficit target, because it is much more accessible to meet that public deficit target in a framework of economic growth and as the policy of all of our public administrations reduces that public deficit; to reduce it further in accordance with our Constitution, as provided for in Article 135 of our Constitution. Yesterday I listened to the leader of We can say that what he does is submit to foreign powers. It's much simpler. I invite you to read article 135; there is no mention of any foreign power. We are talking about the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, unless you understand that being a member of the European Union is being handed over to foreigners. Spain is Europe, we feel fully European, we have our daily work contributing to this formidable project of European integration and that is what determines Article 135 of our Constitution. From there, the Organic Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability, which empowers the Government to propose to the House this draft of new deficit targets framed by economic growth. The program we bring to this House is the creation of two million jobs from 2016 to 2019. This is what really matters. That will mean that in 2019 the unemployment rate in Spain is below 13% and that is what must be committed to us all in this legislature: the achievement of those employment objectives which, if we are able to achieve them - and I am convinced that we will be able to achieve them with laziness and sufficiency - will mean that the crisis that came upon us in 2007 will indeed be completely overcome, since we will have all those Spanish citizens working and will have been completely overcome the most terrible consequence of that crisis, which was the destruction of jobs. In this framework of economic growth we are also betting on the maintenance of a surplus of our current account, an expression of the advances in competitiveness in our country and also an expression of what we are facing the great problem of Spain, which is our country's external debt. That is why we need sustained economic growth, which creates jobs and is compatible with a positive balance of our current account balance, which is the great contribution that has been made in recent years to the Spanish economy and to Spanish society. We have had four years of current account surpluses, and the maintenance of that surplus is what is making us a reliable country, a country capable of meeting its international commitments and, therefore, a country capable of renewing its capacity to attract new investments with the job creation opportunities it represents. The vulnerability of that Spanish economy lies in external debt. This makes it imperative that in this parliamentary term that we now begin we can reduce the deficit of our public administrations. The government's proposal is that this deficit, which we will close in 2016 at 4.6% of our gross domestic product, will reach 1.3% of our gross domestic product in 2019. That is to say, the government's proposal is that we move towards this correction, which will mean that in 2019 the central administration will have a deficit of at least 0.3%, our autonomous administrations will have no deficit, our local corporations will be in budgetary equilibrium, without deficit, and Social Security will be the only one that will have a deficit equivalent to 1%. On that journey there is something that is very important, and that is that as of 2018 Spain will have a deficit of less than 3% in all its public administrations, which will mean that we will exit the excessive deficit correction procedures and therefore our country and our economic policies will also have more room for manoeuvre in terms of national policies. I insist, that is the proposal that we submit to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and that is the proposal that we will also submit in terms of commitment of deficit targets to the autonomous communities in a very near Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. We need to convene it very soon so that from then on we can adapt it to new deficit targets, not only for the coming years but also for this year 2016. In this way, we will be able to enable the financing instruments by the end of the year so that there will be no delay in the payment of public service providers by the autonomous communities. That's why I was saying that this procedure is very important. We have to do this in operational terms, but it is a very important step because it opens the first step for the General State Budgets for 2017. It is also important that we do so on these dates, on the relevant dates, because we are enabling tens of billions of euros to be financed to our autonomous communities to avoid the delay in financing payment to suppliers of public administrations. So that makes us have to be diligent in this process. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go further, I think I have been expressive enough at the state spending limit and to tell you what you already have there and it is known. The project that we bring to the House is the limitation of the expenditure of the State to the same rank or to the same amount with which we will liquidate the budget of the State. Therefore, those EUR 118 billion is what we estimate we are not going to spend in the State as a result of the non-availability agreements, the early closure of budget execution and as a result of the savings of interest we are getting in the financial year 2016. Therefore, the proposal is the same level of government spending for next year, which will also constitute the first step for the State's General Budgets once we count on the resources, whose referendum we proposed to the House this morning, of new tax revenues and also with the tax revenues that come from economic growth, tax revenues that fortunately are the result of Spain's leadership today in Europe and in the developed world of economic growth and, more importantly, job creation. I have just told you, ladies and gentlemen, that we need new general state budgets for our country. Our Constitution establishes the extension, therefore, there is no problem in terms of the end of the year. We will keep the 2016 budget extended for the next financial year and there will be no problems in terms of enabling payments resulting from it. But, I insist on the fundamental idea that for the next 2017 fiscal year we need an updated 2017 state budget. We need it to meet our deficit targets, we need it to update our commitments in terms of correct financing of our public services. We need it to update the advances on behalf of our autonomous communities and our local corporations. We therefore need 2017 General State Budgets that are also an exponent of political stability and that are the result of agreements that we can and must carry forward in the coming weeks and months the political groups in this House as if it were a task. Therefore, the procedure that we are submitting today - I said from the beginning - is the first step for the elaboration of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017. Since that confidence, the Government has proposed the objectives of stability, deficit and public debt - the reduction of public debt is an absolutely fundamental element for the continuity of our economic recovery for the years to come. Therefore, from that proposal and from the confidence that we will be able to carry forward the political agreements that promote the existence, as soon as possible, of the General Budgets of the State for 2017, the Government and myself, in their representation, once again occupy the platform to propose these objectives of budgetary stability. Believe me, it's not a process personally. In that regard, we are proposing welfare, economic recovery and employment policies for our country. The responsibility of a government that has the opportunity and the obligation to understand itself, as we are doing, with the political groups in this House is an absolutely basic foundation for us to continue to promote economic recovery and job creation policies in Spain on the basis of these political circumstances. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Saura García has the floor at the time of the fixing of positions, first of all by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group we welcome the stability objectives for next year, and the reasons have to do with the demands we have put on the government in the negotiation that we have carried out. The first reason, ladies and gentlemen, is that the deficit reduction for the coming year is achieved through public revenue. After five years of government by the People's Party and Mr Montoro at the head of the Ministry of Finance, the adjustment has basically been made on the expenditure side but, on this occasion, the whole adjustment and reduction is made on the revenue side. That's what we've been suing for in recent years. We were demanding that austerity should be eliminated, austerity should be eliminated, but the way is precisely to increase public revenues. We do not like the way it has finally been; we would have liked to go beyond what has been done, because Spain has a margin in relation to gross domestic product, administrations can enter more in relation to GDP, if we compare ourselves with the most developed countries of the European Union. We would have liked to see a thorough tax reform put in place so that the one with the most, the one with the most, would pay more to the public coffers. That hasn't been done. The Government has been clearly short-lived, but the adjustment for next year is done, alone and exclusively, on the income side. If the deficit reduction is 1.5 points of GDP, half of the adjustment is made through the income that the cycle brings and the other half, the other 7.5 billion euros, they are given by the tax measures that have been discussed before; around 5 billion euros for a substantial change in corporate tax to the big corporations; something that we have been demanding. In other words, the fiscal reform of the last year and a half of the People's Party is partly reversed - only partly. It is insufficient, but the whole adjustment, the whole reduction of the deficit, is on the income side. The second reason is that the autonomous communities will have more resources to finance the welfare state. As a result of the deficit reduction on the income side, the autonomous communities will have next year €4 billion more net to invest in the welfare state. What we are supporting here today is that the autonomous communities, where much of the welfare state is residing, next year will have 4 billion euros more to finance that welfare state, which - I insist - is a positive thing. If the deficit targets were not updated for next year, what is in force is that the autonomous communities would have a deficit target for next year of 0.1; however, they will have a deficit target of 0.6. If the deficit targets were not updated, the adjustment that the autonomous communities would have to make in the welfare state would be on the horse - what has been done in recent years - because deficit cuts have been made mainly on the expenditure side. The third reason has to do with a rational historical claim by the Socialist Party, which is also related to tax justice. I'm talking about unravelling the maximum contribution bases. This is precisely a path that had to be taken earlier to reduce the social security deficit. This is a way that makes public spending in Spain fairer, and it is a way that allows us to reduce the deficit in social security and that we do not do it on the expenditure side, that we do not do it on the pension side and the purchasing power of pensions. It's a multi-year program, and we're starting next year with that 3% blur. All this, of course, has to be done within the framework of the Toledo Pact, because what we want from the Socialist Party is for a package of tax and income measures to solve the problem of the social security deficit, which originates basically in the wage devaluation that has taken place these years, as a result of which the Spanish right-wing government has opted for being competitive through - I insist - wage devaluation. A fourth reason, which explains that the Socialist Group positively values these deficit targets for the coming year, is that the methodology for constructing the expenditure rule is being modified; a methodology that was not in line with what the Fiscal Authority is proposing, which is not in line with what the European Union is proposing, but fundamentally that it is not in line with what hundreds of municipalities, small and large, and in addition to the autonomous communities, are demanding, and that they can allocate more resources from their surplus to productive investment. Therefore, this is a compromise, it is another reason why we are going to endorse the deficit targets for next year. And there is a fifth reason that for the Socialists is very important: the rise of the inter-professional minimum wage by 8%. Look, it is the most important and most serious social measure that has been taken in our country in the last five years, since 2011; it is the most important measure that has been taken in our country. It is the most important increase since the creation of the minimum wage in our country. Of course, it is insufficient, because we are at the back of the European Union's inter-professional minimum wage, even there are countries that have productivity below ours that have a higher inter-professional minimum wage than ours. But we return to the path of what the Socialist Party governments did between 2004 and 2009 is an accumulated 35% increase in the inter-professional minimum wage. What is the problem then, ladies and gentlemen, so I have heard of the speakers' statements in the debate on the previous royal decree? What is the problem, ladies and gentlemen? The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that it has been achieved again by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; that is the political problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That's the problem, he's got it back. We've already done it: 35% increase accumulated. And to us it seems insufficient, of course, because we are the Socialist Party which understands that we must replenish - at the moment when we are living capital is gaining weight in the income of our country, in the wealth of our country - we must return the wages to the weight they have to have in the national income; this is what is happening. Nor is there a problem of competitiveness, there is no problem for companies; what we are saying is that wages have to earn more and capital has to earn less and, therefore, wages and capital have to be rebalanced in national income. But the problem, let us not deceive ourselves, is that again the Spanish Social Democracy achieves another achievement - I insist - the most important achievement since the year 2011 in our country. I will read to you what I wrote in El País this weekend Juan Pablo Lázaro, president of the Madrid Business Confederation, CEOE, on the agreements between the PSOE and the Government. He said: What has happened in recent weeks can cause a dangerous change in trend. Thus, the rise in corporation tax, the increase in social contributions as they are partially depreciated, the evolution of oil prices, the significant increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, which is higher than in the last thirty years, augur well for the gestation of an environment that we could call the perfect storm for the business environment. This does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we have turned Montoro into a dangerous red, a social democrat red or a socialist red, no. [[The Minister for Finance and Public Service, Montoro Romero, delivers words that are not perceived]] It is that the seal of Spanish social democracy, the seal of Spanish socialism, the stamp of the Socialist Party is in the agreements and is in the deficit targets for next year, for 2017. That is what is happening, that the stamp of social democracy and that of the Socialist Party, as I have just shown, is there, in those agreements, in those great achievements which, as I say, are insufficient for us because they have been short, but they already know that to make way in social justice we have to start, and what we have done is to start. In the case of the interprofessional minimum wage, the increase is higher than that proposed here by some other parliamentary group, it is higher for next year, more ambitious, because 800 euros were proposed not for 2017 but for 2018. In addition to what we have achieved, it is more ambitious than what was proposed here by some other parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, the disease of our time is inequality, the disease of our time is that economic growth does not bring social progress, that is the disease of our time. And don't have the slightest doubt, as always, in the history of developed countries, the only way is the policies of redistribution of wealth and the only way is social democracy, as always in history. History shows us that in developed countries redistribution has come from the hands of the policies of the stamp of social democracy, as well as in our country. History shows us that in developed countries redistribution has come from policies by the stamp of social democracy, as well as in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one way to finance the redistribution of wealth and it is to increase public revenue. That is the way to finance the redistribution of wealth, because in a country like Spain, with a debt hill, some argue that we must fight austerity by the way of more indebtedness, but that brings us more indebtedness and, therefore, more austerity in the future, and it also takes us away from the European Union, away from a budget and a European public treasure. I already know that there are some, they are majority in certain formations, that what they want is for Spain to fight against the negative effects of globalisation, to fight outside Europe and outside the euro; this is what they want, to renationalise policies. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that the only way to combat the negative effects of globalisation, the only way to be socialist in that context and the only way to power in that context is to finance the welfare state with more Europe, not less Europe. Therefore, fighting and ending austerity by way of indebtedness, by way of not complying with the rules not only takes us away from a common European budget, but also, ladies and gentlemen, takes us out of Europe and takes us out of the European Union. I know that this is what some people want, renationalising policies and ending up in autarchy, but the way to end austerity - the only way to be socialist in this context - is with more Europe. The new orientation for the 2017 deficit targets is insufficient for several reasons: firstly, the low unemployment coverage or the scarce resources earmarked for active employment policies; secondly, the pension revaluation rate which is going to cause the next year, if we do not change it in this Parliament, to lose purchasing power and how pensioners, because the pension revaluation rate approved by the Government does not take into account the evolution of the cost of living. -Look: revalue pensions without taking into account the cost of living!- That is a problem which, of course, implies that we do not agree with the fiscal and budgetary policy of the Government, and also that there is no profound fiscal reform. Ladies and gentlemen, while appreciating the deficit targets for the coming year and noting that the social democrat seal is in the agreements, we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, are against the state's non-financial spending ceiling for 2017. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Montero Soler has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-In Communal Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to make a preliminary clarification as to who I am taking up this rostrum on behalf of. I, like all Members of this House, am exactly a representative of popular sovereignty, and I would like to clarify - I am sure that Mr Floriano knows that popular sovereignty resides in the people, in the people or whatever he wants to call it - that I am tremendously proud to speak on behalf of the people, of all the people or of all the people, just as I am sure that he too will be proud to vote for you many people and to govern just a few. [[Applauds]] When you read the agreement approving the spending ceiling - I go with you, Minister - you are cleared of all doubts about your enormous abilities and abilities to try to turn the white into black and vice versa. It is nothing new, we have had debates where you have said one thing and have done the opposite, it will be a year. And there you are as a minister, so happy and so happy, so I don't think there's a problem. What is important, the novelty of today's debate is not that we are discussing the ceiling of expenditure and budgetary stability - the ceiling of expenditure that we cannot vote on here, we do not know why, because it is not a purely administrative issue, but it has an impact on the living conditions of citizens. What is new is also that with this agreement we recognize your ability to cover cuts in budgets and that these are further consolidated in the spending ceiling, as I will explain later; what is relevant, the novelty of this debate - I am sorry to tell you - does not have to do with you, Minister, but with which you have decided to change government partners and left there, sad and burdensome citizens, looking and thinking about what Suarez would say in a situation like this, and you have just replaced them with the Socialist Party, the party of 'is not and I don't know what part of you don't understand'. Now it turns out that 'no' is not that it has become a forbearance or a forbearance by imperative or a forbearance by bulerías, but that it has become a yes and, with that yes, it is inaugurated at this time and in this House, once the vote takes place, the great coalition in which its president so often insisted that it should take place during the investiture debates. The representative or representatives of the Socialist Party will have to explain to the citizens why they are voting yes to the consolidation of the cuts that occurred in 2016 and to the consolidation of all the cuts that have been occurring in this country since 2009. What is being agreed here, at this time, is that with the change of one word and passing from the constant maintenance of the level of expenditure achieved in 2016 and not talking about the level of expenditure budgeted in 2016, 5 billion cuts are consolidated that have occurred in a covert way this year and in addition to all of the previous years. I am going to focus on the most recent 5,000 because we have had the opportunity to talk about the others on many occasions. Where do they come from? Basically of the approval of the non-availability agreement, 2 billion, which they approved at the beginning of the period; of the early closure of the accounting year, 1.2 billion and, of the decrease in the burden of interest and of what you call the savings in unemployment expenditure, when there are more than 2 million unemployed without benefit at the moment in this country. - Another 2 billion euros. We have heard the Socialist Party criticise all these cuts, each and every one of them, and they have always stood against each and every one of them. Well, they are coming today to give you their explicit support and they are going to give it to you when they vote in favour of the government's objective of budgetary stability. Today they are going to do again here what they like to do so much: criticise the measures from the rostrum and then vote the opposite from the seat. Today is inaugurated here the great coalition of which, yes, you have the honor of being your material creator. As for cuts, you are, in recent times, trying to convince us in the media that they are not cuts, that they are the result of good management. Minister, anticipating the closure of the budgetary year in the summer is neither an exercise nor a practice of good management anywhere in the world. Calling savings for more than 2 million unemployed without benefits is not a good management exercise, so I would beg you to stop playing with words, because behind it lies people, situations and dramatic realities. There is another basic thing - you know that I like the basics - and that is that the debate, in the terms in which it is being raised here, on budgetary stability, is a false debate, Minister, and you know it perfectly well. The budgetary debate can never be marked by how to achieve a certain deficit target. That objective has no economic and social justification, it has only the justification of the fiscal policy imposed by Europe, which even Mario Draghi himself is raising at this time that he is absolutely crazy. Minister, the budget debate focuses essentially on the needs of citizens and on placing these needs at the centre of the decision-making process; on deciding not how to cut expenditure, but on how to get revenue to meet these needs. What we should be talking about here right now is not a ceiling on expenditure, but a ceiling on income. We should be talking about a floor of public revenue needed to finance the social state we want and the public investment we need. I'll tell you with a metaphor that I'm sure I'll make myself better understood - I'm done, Madam President. To talk about spending roof is to start the house on the roof, to talk about income floor is to start the house on the foundations. That's what anyone in this country, you and I, understands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u75	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea too, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u76	Thank you, President. For us the objectives of stability it sets out and the spending ceiling are not credible, they are antisocial and they are anti-autonomic. The cuts already made are consolidated. It is a policy that comes - I think you said, Minister - from Article 135 of the Constitution and from the enthusiastic acceptance by the People's Party government of policies, those of the troika, which have harmed Spain and the rest of Europe. But what we are doing today certainly has great political significance, because it certifies the existence of this great coalition formed by the People's Party, the Socialist Party and Citizens as an irrelevant companion. First question. He said they were unbelievable targets. In previous years, the deficit targets proposed have never been met, they have never been met, either in 2015 or 2016. It should be remembered that the initial objective was nothing less than 2.8. As with any dogmatic policy, the objectives are unrealistic and would have led to economic contraction if they had been achieved. We will see if these objectives that you set are met; we believe they are not. International economic forecasts are not exactly positive and the growth of the economy is due more to external than non-internal issues; more to tail winds than to their policy. We are required to make a greater effort to reduce the deficit in 2017 and 2018, precisely when economic forecasts are going to worsen. We need policies that are more expansive than the Commission's proposals and those that Merkel wants. Second question. He said they were antisocial. The approval of this spending ceiling means turning the cut-off policy into a chronic disease: 50 billion less than the 2016 budget. They consolidate the social cuts made these years and there is no way to reverse them. They do not meet the social needs of the country. You accompany these objectives with an economic report, with macroeconomic data, and removing unemployment makes no reference to social reality; it is as if social reality does not exist. They always forget that 22% of the population is at risk of poverty. They forget that employment is no longer a guarantee of getting out of poverty, because of precariousness and the fall in wages. They forget the more than 5 million people who suffer from energy poverty. They forget about dependency; there are 400,000 people on the waiting list. They forget the sanitary lists. And they forget about pensions, with a ridiculous increase of 0.25 %. But it's not that they forget; it's that they care little. They don't care, because inequality is part of their social model; that's the problem. Why does GDP growth, which is also not the best indicator of social progress, not reach the working people or the impoverished middle classes? For the labour reform, for the fall in wages, for the precariousness. The wage devaluation policy has a fundamental objective, which is the transfer of income from labour to capital income to maintain the rate of profit. That is the fundamental objective. And with the wage devaluation, with the cuts, with the bank bailout and, now, with the bailout of the highways there is a transfer of resources from the majority to the elites. In their particular capitalism of friends, banking, electrics or builders are rescued and reap great benefits from bad regulation. What free market is this in which for some the risk does not exist? By the way, the European Council points out that we have a serious problem of opacity with public procurement and a large number of irregularities. Is this the policy we need? No, because after eight years of crisis you can't expect more. It is time to reverse the cuts, to take care of the dependency, to create a guaranteed income against poverty. It is time to redistribute wealth, and this is the fundamental objective. It is time to start the energy transition and reverse the cuts. And the central issue for reducing inequalities and deficit is tackling the fiscal problem. The problem we have is that Spain collects almost 10% less of GDP than the European average. That is the fundamental question, and that is not solved with patches like the ones you are going to approve today. He said that this proposal is also anti-autonomous, because it once again centrifuges the deficit to the Autonomous Communities: 80% of the deficit for the Central Administration and only 20% for the Autonomous Communities. However, in social expenditure, 56% are in the central administration, 40% are in self-government and 4% are in local government. Dogmatism is such that the Stability Act prevents, in the event that a city council has a surplus, it from spending it on social spending or investment. He said that this agreement has great political significance, because it is shown that the great coalition works, that Citizens have an irrelevant role and the future will have more. I'm sorry, but I am. FNL confrontations that the Government then fails to comply with and plans to comply with. We may see some confrontation with some law that the PP Government does not consider fundamental, but they will have agreements on the fundamental, such as economic policies. The repeal or we will repeal is left here in this vote, remains in the fundamental pillars of government policy. The dialogue operation is an operation to legitimize the underlying lines of the PP project at a time when it has no absolute majority. That's the point. And we are very afraid that the manager of the PSOE, when she says no, actually means yes. They approve and will approve the fundamental issues, such as the General Budgets of the State; and if not, at the same time. In conclusion, it must be on the street and in Parliament. What is no longer so understood, socialist comrades, is to be voting with the Government on its economic policy and being on the street protesting against that economic policy. We will today vote against this economic policy and we will be in the mobilizations convened with the trade union organizations; we will be with the workers, which is where we should be. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u77	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, only the statements of the debates that are now being brought to this House are already tremendously far-reaching, even for economists who have been working on this for a long time, with which my objective in this speech is to extract what I believe are the essential political messages from what Mr Montoro has done in 2016 and the plans he has for the future. Mr Montoro, I will tell you very clearly, for me the management you did of the public accounts in 2016 is disastrous; I join the litany of virtuosities that have told you so far. After the biggest rise in taxes on democracy, before the last elections, you carried out a tax reform to try to save the face of the government. The main result of its reform - now we know very well - is that the revenues of the state - particularly the income of societies - fell into pieces, completely breaking its forecasts: while in 2007 we were collecting in societies 45 billion, in 2016, at the end of this year we will collect 15 billion, a third part, Mr Montoro. And what happened to all that money? Essentially that the legal traps and deductions and exemptions that you created with that money favored some profit accounts of very few large companies, which already paid very little, and helped to sharpen further a tax that was already a bit like a greasy cheese, instead of helping those entrepreneurs who raise employment in this country. In short, more privileges for some who already paid little and nothing for the small entrepreneurs who generate the wealth of this country. Obviously, this reform caused a deviation in the deficit targets for this year of almost 1% of GDP and, of course, to solve it, you invented another cap, which is this idea of split payments to get the collection at the end, to be able to square the accounts and that Minister Montoro could go to Brussels and sell that he was going to get to 4.6% this year. In short, Mr Montoro, the management of the last year has been quite unpromising: no ambition in the fight against fraud, no willingness to pursue the amnesty to pay what they owe, no ambition to reduce the hypertrophy of the political bubble, the duplication and bureaucracy of the boom years, no courage to confront the client networks established in political diputations and other political chiringuites and, in the meantime, rising taxes to the middle class, collapses social security revenues, cut across all major social and future items: education, health, dependency and innovation. This is the summary of the year 2016. What's ahead for the next few years? It is true, and you have said so, that this year is going to be a difficult year, because we have to move from 4.6% to 3.1%, that is 16 billion adjustments. It is a difficult job that awaits us, but there is a fundamental difference between this year and the previous year, and it is fortunately that there are citizens, which will allow, for example, that there will be no more increases in types in the IRPF or in VAT and that there will be no more cuts in health, in dependence, in education or in innovation. Income and expenditure decisions, you know very well, are the most political of all. This year, Mr. Montoro, you might have chosen to pursue the defrauders, but you have preferred to put your hand in the middle class taxpayers' pocket. [[Applauds]] In Citizens we have different priorities for the next budget. I will tell you three: take an important turn in this country's failed employment policies, lay the foundations for a new growth model and, as I said, stop social cuts. In terms of employment - now we are on the most optimistic side - we have only been in the legislature for a few weeks and we have achieved more than was likely achieved throughout the previous legislature; thanks to the presence of Citizens. The first law that brought Citizens to the House is the law of urgent measures for the self-employed, a law that, with the support of the Government and with the corresponding budget, will change the lives of 3 million people and their families next year, eliminating burdens, reducing bureaucracy and improving rights. It is a shame that the tightening of the postponements that have been included in the decree will probably harm the self-employed, despite supporting this law. This same week, Minister Báñez announced her intention to implement a good number of the requirements contained in the investment agreement with Citizens related to the field of active and training policies. An effort will be made in point 42 of the agreement to increase the number of beneficiaries of the activation policy programme for employment. The profile of long-term unemployed will be improved, guidance policies will be improved and there will be a training check. All these demands were in the agreement. Point 38 of the agreement. The minister promised - let us hope that she will then do so - to try to move towards an Austrian backpack model that allows workers to accumulate rights from one job to the next since they start in a new one. Point 36 of the agreement. The Minister announced that she would resume the failed recruitment system in this country, which promotes systematic discrimination against temporary workers and the profound injustice of duality. But that's not all. We are also pleased to see that the Minister will implement point 67 of the agreement on conciliation policies. I assure you that as a recent father nothing makes me happier than to be able to announce that since 1 January 2017 the parents of this country will have two more weeks of permission to be with their babies. [[Applauds]] It will be an acquired right that will reduce the inequalities that women suffer in this country and that will be thanks to Citizens. Arrived at this point - it is a pity that Mr. Iglesias is not here, so I will speak with Mr. Vendrell, who has intervened before - after all the noise, after the goat, after surrounding the Congress, after staging shows and rapping in rallies, could you, Mr. Vendrell, since Mr. Iglesias is not here, explain to us what exactly We can do to improve the rights of women and parents in this country? [[Applauds]] How many weeks of leave have you achieved exactly? How many? I'm telling you, zero. [[Applauds]] Perhaps, Mr Vendrell, you should worry less - well, you and your party - about throne games and internal problems and a little more about people's real problems, which is what they were supposed to come to defend this Congress. [[Applauds]] See if you get things when you talk that today on the cover of all the newspapers appears one of the most important flags of Citizens: the salary supplement for young people, which will start to be implemented, according to the promise of the minister, starting next year. I imagine that you too will like young people to have better access and better activation policies. There is useful policy and useless policy. [[Applauds]] That's the summary. I'm not going to stretch much longer. In future budgets, even if Montoro makes it a bit difficult for us, there will be more money to improve innovation and education. There will be a pilot plan to make a program for reinforcement teachers and end school failure. Point 79 of the agreement. And for the first time, after forty years of lack of dialogue and absolute incompetence on this issue, a national pact for education will be opened. Point 78 of the agreement. Obviously, as in any family that knows that no more money can come out of the house than they come in, we also have a commitment from the Government to make a spending review. Point 2 of the agreement. This is a review of spending to eliminate double standards of billions. They have committed to that and put it in the DBP, in the draft that they have sent to Brussels to get the savings necessary to be able to finance the policies that Citizens demand. And finally, the Government is committed to improving institutions, improving the judicial system and modernizing it, as stated in paragraph 131 of the agreement. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a legislature in which the effort of dialogue and work, despite the budgetary restriction and Mr Montoro, will allow this country to start moving in the right direction. We will vote in favour of the expenditure ceiling in order to open up the budgetary channel and make the points mentioned, to which the Government has committed itself, possible. When the draft budgets come, we will also approve it, if the president fulfills his word and the demands of Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u79	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u80	Good afternoon. Today he brings us, Minister, a ceiling of spending for budgets that limits the social spending of the autonomous communities - again that is - while he continues to allow the wasteful feast of his Government and while the middle classes, if any, and the popular classes continue to pay the bills of bankruptcy of banks and large companies that continue to have indecent profits. This would certainly be the first conclusion. Because, while limiting spending to the autonomous communities on health, education or social projects, yesterday the Minister of Defence announced an increase in military spending by more than 30%. Because it will cut us, at the request of Europe - even if it does not do so immediately, this comes next - about 5.5 billion euros next year, while, on the other hand, they will allocate that money to pay for the rescue of the Madrid motorways. Because, while last year in election campaign lowered taxes by an approximate amount - you said it, minister, your ministry said it - of 7 billion euros - once paid your election campaign, which were two - increases taxes to recover what you did not enter. And because, while drowning the autonomous communities with absolutely insufficient funding, it boycotts our capacity - and I am referring to Catalonia - of fiscal self-government, to create new taxes, de facto exercising Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. It is true that Europe decided, under the excessive deficit procedure, to review the deficit targets for 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and now they have become 4.6%, 3.1%, 2.2% and 1.3% respectively. And it is true that this has led them to touch and retouch what was approved in their day because it did not conform to what Europe said, that is, the government of the Spanish State failed again. It is clear that this is not news, it is clear that it is no news, as it is evident that non-compliance has consequences, as I said, some of which will be immediate and others not so much. In the immediate future it will have consequences in order that you have had to agree certain issues with the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and that you have had to leave citizens at the banquet. You said this earlier at the beginning of your speech: politics has returned to the Chamber. It is about that, Mr Montoro, of doing politics, in short, that which you do not like so much because, when you had that absolute and absolutist majority, politics was shining for your absence and it is also true that the PSOE has made you change certain approaches and that is why today we will approve an interprofessional minimum wage different from that which you intended to approve. The situation of non-compliance, Minister, is unique and exclusively attributable to you, it is not necessary for you to look at anyone else, you, because, as I said to you, and in view of an electoral process, it occurred to you that the best way to run for elections was to lower taxes such as the IRPF and societies for net and clearly electoral purposes. It is true - others have already said it, we have told it on many occasions and we will repeat it as many times as is convenient in order not to lose the memory, that it is very important to know where we come from and where we want to go - that now it is time to repair and fix what we did not do well and that is why today we will validate the Royal Decree-Law 3/2016, and that is why the Royal Decree of 30 September was approved in order to disband the walk in order to be able to guarantee revenues. That's what I meant when I told him that the PSOE imposes on you another way to address deficit targets. In spite of that, I do not say anything to you from the Republican Left that we have not told you before and that the Government of Catalonia has also told you: what you are putting us to consideration and voting today is not acceptable. Again, I have to start by denouncing the behaviour of the Spanish State Government. You point us with your finger and tell us that we are obliged to comply with the law, but the main non-compliances of the law are you, the Budget Stability Act and the need for an equitable sharing of the deficit target, differentiated according to the competences that each autonomous community has. That is, you fill your mouth with law to conceal that you are infringing it. And it's not that Esquerra Republicana says that, but that's what Airef's recommendations say about Catalonia. We need a deficit ceiling far above what is proposed by the Spanish Government and the head of the Ministry of Finance, you, Mr Montoro. We never agreed. We did not agree with the distribution that is in force, nor with which it was agreed, nor with which it was imposed. He knows that this is not a single issue solely attributable to Esquerra Republicana or to the current Vice President of the Government of Catalonia, but also to the former Councillor of Economics of the Generalitat of Catalonia. The limit proposed to us, both for this year and for next year, is insufficient and, as I said, in our view contrary to the laws, to the interpretation of them and to the internal recommendations of the institutions themselves as well as those of an external nature, which are the European ones. You say one thing in the laws, but in practice you always go hand in hand to the detriment of the autonomous communities. While Europe agrees on a methodology for setting deficit targets, Spain from door to door is purely arbitrariness. In short, it ends up being a political decision but with a biased popular character; that is, of imposing the criteria of the People's Party, except that on this occasion, as I pointed out earlier, they obtained the agreement with the autonomous communities that are governed by the PSOE, which entails an insufficient tenth more than we had been approved. The deficit targets that the Government imposes on us are not only arbitrary, but also politically illegitimate, and ethically so, because they retort the public administrations responsible for providing direct services to citizens rather than making those public administrations that currently no longer have or lack competence disappear. I have already told you on many occasions that you should start to rethink if you do not have to close some ministries and parliaments that no longer have competences such as, for example, Health and Culture. As the beginning of my speech also said, when you decide to increase military spending by 30%, as the Minister of Defence pointed out yesterday, it is very clear what the priorities of the current Government of the Kingdom of Spain are. If you had done what you had done, to adjust the State administration, the autonomous communities would not have suffered what you had to suffer. In short, they practice deficit centrifugation and open and close the liquidity tap to their liking. This is the unalterable truth of the People's Party's course in the 10th Legislature and the period in which they were here in precariousness, and what they will do in the current one. I have to tell you that you too are going badly and late, because there is a delay in approving the deficit targets and this leads to serious problems for the budgetary planning of all the public administrations with the difficulties involved. So you are unbelievable when you talk about security and stability, and again I must ask you, Minister, what the State is doing with regard to what is affecting us, which is Catalonia, and that is what it always is: boycotting the income measures which, within the framework of its powers, the Government of Catalonia is developing and trying to develop. Again you - we will see what you are doing, but that is what it seems a priori - we are being robbed of the ability to develop self-government in tax matters - I am referring to the tax that you call carbonated beverages, what we in Catalonia call the tax on sugar begudes i sodi, so that now the bank deposits, the non-compliance with the third additional provision, the competitiveness funds, the tax on aircraft gas emissions and nuclear energy, and so on, a new lamination of this self-government and therefore this ability to generate revenue. It is true that when it suits you, you go at the speed of light, as when it comes to limiting and preventing the fiscal self-government capacity of Catalonia. This is because, in short, the Vice-President of the Government of Catalonia comes out on Tuesday saying that we have the purpose of applying a new tax to obtain greater income, which is for nothing other than to be able to meet the competences that we have under statutory law, those that we have always wanted to have and that we want to exercise, and the next day you filter into the media that are going to establish new taxes, basically this one that affects us or that we have decided to develop. In short, following an announcement with the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups, on Thursday you propose it in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, Minister. Therefore, it is not necessary to apply Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, we have long realized that what you do de facto is suspend our capacity for self-government. In conclusion, I want to tell you that when you do this, you apply the policy of the hortelano dog, which neither eats nor lets eat. In short, they always leave us with this inability to meet the needs of the citizens of Catalonia. For us the fiscal deficit is important, but there are other deficits that are as important and worrying as this, such as the deficit in health, education and culture, which not only contribute to personal and economic growth but also help to future financial sustainability. This is what drives the Republican Left to build that future Catalan republic. The deficit targets presented to us today are clearly insufficient for us. Therefore, as we do not share them, we are not going to vote in favour of what is before us today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as you know, our group has always been very critical of Europe and its economic policy. Europe initially gambled to control the government deficit to the extreme through a coercive system that led to a tightening of the economic crisis situation. This policy was subsequently complemented by expansive financial policies that have led us to an unknown situation with zero and negative interest rates. With this schizophrenic mix of highly restrictive fiscal policy and expansive financial policy Europe has placed us in a completely new, experimental and risky economic scenario. Experiments sometimes go well and sometimes they go wrong. Let us hope that in this case it will go well, because we all have a lot going on in the outcome of this experiment. In any case, Europe is taking a great risk, because there is no previous evidence that this mix of policies so extremist works. Apart from this general consideration, I will focus my intervention on Organic Law 2/2012, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, and its implications. I would have a lot to say about the unfair way in which deficit and debt targets have been distributed between the State and the autonomous communities in recent years, but I will focus on an aspect that we are currently particularly concerned about in the Basque Country and in which Organic Law 2/2012 takes an even more restrictive and coercive approach than the European Union itself. I'm talking about the spending rule. I will start by saying that the expenditure rule does not respond to an accounting calculation, such as deficit or debt, but is an estimate of the level of growth that GDP should have in order not to generate excessive inflation. This estimate is complex and is based on questionable assumptions and therefore results in arbitrary results. In this context, the expenditure rule can serve as a tool of an orientation nature but nothing else. For this reason, Europe decided not to use the expenditure rule on a coercive and corrective basis, only deficit and debt targets have that nature in Europe. In Europe the expenditure rule is only an indicator of the medium-term objective measured in terms of structural balance. Because they are not a target, their non-compliance has no corrective or coercive consequences, which are triggered only if there is a deviation from the target in the medium term. The option adopted by Europe is consistent with the nature of the expenditure rule, which first incorporates discretionary elements; secondly, it is calculated as a multiannual average, and thirdly, it generates a data that is very sensitive to the specific period taken as a reference. In contrast, the deficit and public debt are more objective in nature and are calculated for each year. But in the case of the spending rule, you were more papists than the pope - if I may express it - and you exceeded your regulation. From our group we ask you, Minister, to be aware of this situation and to reconsider in the medium term the drafting of the law and in the short term its application. In the face of such an arbitrary metric, not only can flexible applications be applied from our point of view. We believe that strict application of the expenditure rule will for longer maintain the hardness of high unemployment rates and in the case of unemployment the time factor is crucial, not only because of the suffering it entails but also because it makes it difficult to reintegrate into the labour market. In the current situation of high unemployment, once the deficit target has been met, all the increase in available revenue should be injected into the economy without further restrictions. We cannot put more stones on the road to the recovery of employment lost during the crisis. One measure that seems obvious to us is the multi-annual consideration of compliance with the expenditure rule. We do not see much sense that something that is calculated as an average of ten years applies for a single year. Symmetry is evident. You should follow up the expenditure rule on a multiannual basis and make corrections when the deviations are clear and consistent in the medium term. The recovery of the spirit of bilaterality of the Economic Concert has allowed us to agree with you, Minister - believe me that I am not doing precisely a courtesy intervention but I am sending you a message that I hope you can understand - a public deficit limit for the coming years. These are hard limits that will require rigour and that mismanaged could delay the recovery of employment. However, we have accepted them because we are aware of the limitations imposed by European governance rules and the difficult context in which you are moving. What we ask you to do is not additionally impose an arbitrary spending limit – 2.1 for 2017 – which is lower than our real medium-term growth potential. Plant a flexible application. We hope that the recent meeting with the Finance and Economic Adviser of the Basque Government to agree on deficit targets will not be an isolated event, but that his will to comply with the provisions of the Economic Agreement will be firm and that we will be able to hold meetings more continuously in a climate of cordiality and mutual respect. And within this climate, the rule of spending that, as I say, is only a theoretical calculation determined by questionable underlying assumptions and very sensitive to the period of time that is taken as a basis, is applied rationally. With all these exceptions and nuances made, our group will vote in favour because we welcome the Government's recent gestures towards greater respect for the bilaterality in tax matters contained in the Economic Concert. We do not agree with the rules of European governance nor with their application in Spain, but we believe that in a climate of bilaterality, cordiality and mutual respect we can have the opportunity to bring positions closer to achieving a more rational application of the rules and adjusted to our own economic and social reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u83	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u84	Thank you very much, President. Minister, I will intervene quickly. We are not voting in favour for a number of reasons. First, lack of credibility. It seems to me that these are the sixth objectives of budgetary stability that you are presenting to this House. The previous five have all been modified. A difference, before they approved them alone, now they are going to approve them with their new economic partners. I understand that if they are to change them, they will also do so with their new economic partners. Second, they are not fair to the autonomous communities. Someone reminded you of that, Minister. They do not comply with the first transitional provision of the Budget Stability Act. He knows that our political formation supported this law precisely because of this transitional provision and does not comply with it. I will give you a data: closed exercises 2011-2015, which we can already check. Do you know how much the autonomous communities have contributed to the reduction of the deficit that has occurred during that period in the Spanish State? Forty-one per cent. Do you know how much local corporations have contributed, which have generated surplus since 2012? 20 %. And do you know how much the areas of your responsibility, Central Administration and Social Security have contributed? 38 %. The perverse autonomous communities, the self-governing self-governing communities have contributed more to the reduction of the deficit than the central administration and social security. Yes, these are your areas of responsibility, Minister. In any case, these are not objectives that meet Catalonia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u85	One second, Your Honor. Please sit down and keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u86	You know, and the Government of Catalonia has told you, that it would have a deficit target of 1.18%. It is surprising that this was not approved unanimously in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council; in fact, there were three very significant autonomous communities, Valencia, Les Illes Balears and Catalonia, which voted against, two of them with socialist president. There was no autonomous community with socialist president who endorsed this distribution of deficit targets, although today the Socialist Party does; they will know. In any case, in Catalonia you are not meeting the deficit targets. I have one question: Are you going to follow Airef's recommendation to unevenly distribute the deficit targets of the autonomous communities? This would be interesting, and from here today you could give us good news for Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u87	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing, of course, the caricature of reality or, in other words, the charade we have been witnessing since the beginning of this parliamentary term. Today we are presented with the distribution of deficit targets as a political success of generosity, capacity for dialogue and good governance among the parties supporting the Government, the People's Party, Citizens and, unfortunately, the Socialist Party. Some will participate in this healing by will, others by obligation, but we will not. And we will not do it for a key reason: this is not an agreement, this is a full-fledged drag. Our Government, the Valencian Government, along with other governments, said no to this distribution, which is still a distribution based on the arbitrariness of the People's Party Government. And by the way, that some sell as a success that the autonomous communities have one tenth more deficit, perhaps it is also part of this sanity. A month ago we had the opportunity to establish criteria for the distribution of the deficit proportional and objective. In Compromís we presented it as an amendment to the Stability Act and the numbers were coming out, but some might have been thinking more about things than the welfare of our people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are aware that you govern on many occasions with the aim of trying to destabilise our Government and we are aware that you know that it is the main institution of political change in this country. And one thing we say to you: despite this arbitrary and unjust decree, despite the underfunding we suffer and despite the fact that you play with our money, as in the FLA for suppliers, who do not want to give it to us, our Government will continue to govern and rescue people. I'm done. What we expect from our partners there is that here too they are coherent and vote that they are not. Elijan: either healthy or consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u89	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Joint Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u90	Supporting the spending ceiling, however much it increases by 1%, is to deepen the austerity policy, consolidate and open the door to further cuts and give a good chance of sharing the deficit targets, with greater weight on the autonomous communities in the control of the deficit, all without taking into account that social needs must be at the centre of public policy. Similarly, the measures announced to increase income are completely inadequate, if not harmful. Just a reduction of some deductions for businesses without addressing the necessary corporate tax reform to achieve fairer and fairer taxation; no willingness to really strengthen the fight against tax fraud, and also measures that involve a cut in the payroll of the poorest people, such as the 8% increase in the contributions of the lowest payrolls, while for the highest ones it will be only 3%. Not only does greater weight continue to be placed on the autonomous communities, as I have said, but the profound differences between them are not taken into account. Therefore, the fact that the deficit target has been relaxed does not change our position of defence of the right to be able to decide on our borrowing policies, on the rhythms and priorities so that, instead of merely following the strict limits imposed by the State, we can assert our right to decide our policies, and then negotiate with the State how to implement them in a bilateral relationship that does not exist at present and that, unfortunately, the last lehendakaris have not wanted to explore, and neither has the current one, because bilaterality, contrary to what has been said here today, is not the mere acceptance of what the State says. For this reason, an aimless PSOE and a PNV that continues to play small, far from what the times we live require, will enable the government to continue with its austerity policies and cuts, but not with our vote, which will be contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already commented in the previous debate on the importance of consensus. Many times we have asked in this rostrum and it is clear that in this case we greet him once again. Beyond the criticisms that we can make of one another over an absolute majority legislature, one for having some incommunicado and the other for not wanting to participate in important issues comfortably, we must all now do the exercise of adapting to this situation and I believe that the Government has done so in a positive way. I want to put it in value. But, beyond that, I also want to say why that consensus is good. First, because it transfers an image of certainty and certainty is trust, trust is stability and I hope it will also move in growth. Then, because it conveys the message that we have been able to agree on a very complex issue because, beyond flexibility in 2016, the challenges we are going to face are very important, such as lowering the deficit from 4.6% to 1.3% in 2019, in three years, and if we are able not to discuss this path, it would be and is an extremely important agreement. I have said this in my previous speech and it is not a warning, but we should not in any case break the philosophy and policies that have made it possible for us to get to this situation. I understand the limitations and perverse parliamentary arithmetic that we have in this legislature, but it would be good to do enough pedagogy to defend what has been done well and which has brought us here. Finally, he said that he appreciated the positive sense of consensus and, beyond parliamentary consensus, which is good, and of political consensuss, it would be good to transfer them to those actors who, in each of the topics we could agree on, are affected or involved, because that would make us better aware of the reality. If we are to extend the consensus to other points because this should be the legislature of the pacts, we are also counting on extending and transversaling those political agreements to the actors concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. At the beginning of last August, the Council of the European Union modified the fiscal consolidation path and extended the intermediate deficit targets, resulting in the Government in Spain having to adapt and approve the new deficit and debt target. Having drawn up the proposal with the new figures, the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council issued a favourable agreement on 1 December so that the autonomous communities, as in the case of the Principality of Asturias, can have more resources to the extent that they exhaust their debt possibilities. In Forum we are in favour of injecting all possible resources into the economy, always within the limits set by Law 2/2012, since in another case we would be losing investment and job creation possibilities, which is the highest political priority. However, we demand that those autonomous communities that fail to meet the stated objectives be subject to the measures in the Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability, which, it should be recalled, can be of three types: preventive, corrective and coercive, in order to ensure the fulfilment of the objectives and not discriminate and penalize some communities with respect to others. I will vote in favour of this objective, but it is not enough to stress that the law is for us all to fulfil it and the constitutional principle of solidarity cannot be broken, granting privileges in the implementation of the measures envisaged in our laws. I insist, I will vote in favour of this objective presented by Mr Montoro, aimed at reducing the public deficit, economic growth and creating jobs. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u95	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas-Gonzalez Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree, which contains the approval of the new objectives of budgetary stability and enlargement of the expenditure ceiling, sets for the autonomous communities in 2016 and 2017 at 0.7% and 0.6%, respectively, and the expenditure ceiling is extended for the next year from 1.8% to 2.1%. This easing of the spending ceiling by three tenths, in combination with the new stability objective, will allow the Canary Islands to allocate this further expansion of the deficit to non-financial expenditure, which will make it possible to make budgets more expansive than originally envisaged. This means that additional resources will be available for health, social services and education, priorities of the Government of the Canary Islands and pillars of social welfare. That is why the Canary Islands voted in favour of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which was held one day before the adoption of the new stability objectives within the Council of Ministers. The biggest target of the 2017 deficit and the new spending rule will allow the Canary Islands to grow at the pace their economy does, thanks to the fact that it is a community that has met the deficit. This additional spending capacity will be incorporated, through an extraordinary credit law, into the budgets of our autonomous community. Therefore, in line with the position maintained and expressed by the Canary Islands in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, we support this government agreement on the expenditure limit for public administrations. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u97	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me to begin by replying to Mr Montero in his second speech, because he has repeated twice today in this House that the People's Party governs for a few; however, he has not answered the question that my colleague Mr Floriano asked him about how it is possible that we govern for a few and we are voted many, or at least many more than you. [[Applauds]] I would like you to answer that question because the next step to your assertion is to insult the voters, that is, that only the ready Spaniards vote for you and those who are not, vote for the others. That's what your partner from En Marea says after losing the Galician elections on September 25th and I'd be worried that you too would take that path. Returning to the subject before us, Minister, it is up to me to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the Government's agreement to align the objective of budgetary stability and public debt for the whole of public administrations and for each of its subsectors for 2016, and also the joint debate on the Government's agreement setting the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the whole of public administrations and for each of its subsectors for the 2017-2019 period and the non-financial expenditure limit for the next year's budgets. I have already come to the point that, as it cannot be otherwise, my group is going to support these Government forecasts, which we consider to be prudent and realistic, and which, following the adoption of a new fiscal consolidation agenda, envisage a fair distribution of the deficit among all public administrations. The two agreements we are discussing today are the result of both dialogue and negotiation at European level, with the adoption of a new path of fiscal consolidation for our country, and of dialogue and negotiation at internal level between all public administrations and the various political groups, which, ladies and gentlemen, is to be satisfied. Politicians must give solutions to citizens' problems and the best way to do that is to reach agreements, sensible agreements, realistic agreements and agreements that are possible. This is what we do when we are engaged in politics and the opposite is demagoguery. Today in this House it will be seen that there are parliamentary groups seeking agreement, that know Spain's obligations in the European Union as a country and that they do not intend to deceive the Spaniards with unrealizable proposals that, far from bringing the happiness they preach, the only thing they would bring would be frustration and poverty. Today they have insisted on it and before they did it in other countries around us, and I wonder if they would do in favor of questioning the Greeks about what was of that happy archadia that their fellow Syriza promised them. Mr Vendrell, you were criticising the fact that we were able to renegotiate a smoother deficit path for our country - that is what you have been asking for forever or at least for four years - and yet you come up here to criticise that we have managed to negotiate a new deficit path in Brussels. I would ask you to clarify yourself and not say one thing or the other as appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fifth time we have debated in this House on the expenditure ceiling and the deficit and public debt targets. The truth is that the circumstances are not the same, they have varied a lot since that summer of 2012, in which we celebrate the first, and in that they will agree with me. If in 2012 our country was in a clear recession, today we are the fastest growing country in Europe's major economies; this year we will do it at 3.2%, as in 2015. If in 2012 we were the country with the greatest job destruction in the European Union, with 600,000 more unemployed every year in the period 2008-2012, today we are the ones who create the most jobs, that is, half of the new jobs created in Europe are created in our country, up to 600,000 new jobs will be created this year. If in 2011 we close our public deficit by 9.6% of GDP, in 2015 it will close by less than half. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, we have made an adjustment of EUR 50 billion in five years, and that with the first two years of the legislature with a severe economic recession. If in 2012 part of our financial system was practically broken, our banks today enjoy good financial health. If in that summer of 2012 the risk premium exceeded 600 basis points and made it almost impossible to finance itself, today we do it at historically low rates and even negative rates in the short and medium term. I do not want to say that there are no problems yet - of course there are, the unemployment rate is still very high, our public accounts are not completely healed - but it is no less true that both circumstances have improved extraordinarily, and they will continue to do so if we maintain the course of these years. Today, again, we have seen how the same message always moves from the opposition: everything bad is the fault of the PP and everything good, all these positive data that I have just told you, as well as many others that I do not have time to tell you - data that, as they are objective, cannot be denied -, you blame it on external factors, it can already be the European Central Bank, the price of oil, etc. Frankly, this position is somewhat puerile and, if not, how you explain the same tailwinds coming from abroad for Italy and France, which are countries that grow a third of what our country grows, or how you explain that now that some of these external factors disappear everyone agrees in your forecasts that Spain will grow at least twice as much as the average of the European Union and the triple that France or Italy. The most honest thing is to recognize some merit to whom Spain is leading as we emerge from the greatest economic crisis we have experienced in decades. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Spain has changed a lot over the past five years, no one doubts that. It is to be proud of our effort and what we have achieved, which is to amaze the world again, and this has been thanks to the efforts of all Spaniards and to the structural reforms that the Government of Mariano Rajoy has approved during the X Legislature with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group. Because the truth is that in this House we did not have much support - almost none, I would say - from other parliamentary groups, but at that time it was our responsibility to make those decisions, some of them very hard; decisions were not easy, but it was our responsibility and we exercised it with determination. Ladies and gentlemen, the circumstances have changed significantly in this legislature. There is no longer a group with sufficient majority that can assume sole responsibility for making all these decisions. The Spaniards wanted it to be that way, they wanted responsibility to be shared by all the parliamentary groups, and I sincerely believe that the adoption today, with more than 250 votes in favour, of the spending ceiling and the deficit and public debt targets is a sign that the groups, at least the most important, we have understood the message: we must dialogue, we must agree and we must put responsibility before the party interests. Today, we will clearly see who wants Spain to continue to move forward, to continue to create jobs and that its public administrations will operate at full performance, with the aim of meeting the needs of the Spaniards, who, in the end, is what it is, as I said before, when we are doing politics. The expenditure ceiling that we approved today, which is set at 118,337 million for 2017, corresponds to the non-financial expenditure with which we close 2016. Therefore, anyone who says that they are cutting simply lacks the truth, because where is the cut when they are going to spend the same as the previous year. It is not, in short, about spending more, but about spending better, which is what we have been doing since 2011 when we arrived at the Government and what we intend to continue to do today. This expenditure ceiling is adjusted and is consistent with the deficit and public debt target for 2017, which is set at 3,1 % of GDP and 99, respectively. They are realistic and prudent objectives and with a fair division of effort between the various public administrations; a division resulting from the agreement between the Government and the autonomous communities in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, where it was decided to grant one tenth more margin to the autonomous communities that will be able to devote to health, education and social services, expenses that represent 70% of the total of these administrations. Some repeat and repeat the mantra of austerity. It is relatively easy to defeat that mantra, because the numbers are relevant by themselves and objective. In 2016, social spending is going to be the largest historically, above the €30 billion, which is 4 billion more than budgeted in 2011 and 57,000 more than in 2007, when Spain had not yet entered into crisis. With this I would like to reply to Mr Montero, Mr Vendrell and Mr Roldán, who also mentioned the supposed cuts of the People's Party. It is a possible spending ceiling also thanks to the tax measures that will be adopted today and on which I will not stop, as they have already been sufficiently debated this morning. But I would like to say that with these measures our welfare state is insured, because tax collection is guaranteed, which will reach 188 billion euros, and this despite the reduction of the IRPF and of the company tax approved in 2015. Mr Saura said that there was room for tax increases, and that the tax reduction of the IRPF and corporate tax had been a failure. We believe that the opposite is true: lowering the IRPF to the middle classes is what it does to increase its disposable income, and this increases domestic consumption, which all analysts estimate, from the AIReF to the International Monetary Fund, the Bank of Spain, the BBVA or Funcas, which is that domestic consumption the main source of growth in our country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u99	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u100	On the other hand, I share with the Socialist Party that it is a good objective to try to collect more, but the collection data also refute their claim that we are failing in this respect. In 2014, 175 billion were raised; in 2015, already with a tax reduction, 182 billion were raised, and in this year 2016, 188 billion will be raised, as I said before. Today's forecasts are prudent and realistic, and it is not just the opinion of the People's Parliamentary Group or the Government; it is also the opinion of the autonomous bodies, such as the AIReF or the Banco de España, which recently endorsed these forecasts, as well as the tax measures approved. The macroeconomic picture accompanying the agreements we are discussing has also been endorsed by the most prestigious private study centres, which coincide with the estimates of growth and job creation approved by the Government. And most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, these forecasts, the government's economic policy is also endorsed by those who really create jobs, by employers. These days a survey by Price Waterhouse was published, conducted between 350 entrepreneurs and investors, which concluded, for the most part, about 60%, that job creation in 2017 and economic growth will be higher than expected by the government in this economic picture that we have presented. These are certainly good wishes that should reflect on those who intend to make an amendment to the whole of the economic and employment policies of this Government. It is not wise to change what works, let alone those practices that have already shown in the past that they do not work. It would simply be irresponsible. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's debate we are starting the budgetary cycle that will lead to the adoption of the General State Budgets for 2017, which is the next destination we have at the beginning of this parliamentary term. You are all aware of the importance of having approved budgets so that economic recovery does not stop, that job creation continues and that social benefits are guaranteed to those who need it most. It would be a big mistake not to, not to approve a budget. That is the responsibility that the Spaniards have given us to all the members of this House; and we must exercise it with absolute loyalty, abandoning demagogy and partisan interests, and putting forward the interests of all the Spaniards. I assure you that in this task you will have in my parliamentary group a faithful and responsible ally, and I trust that the show of responsibility that we are giving today will continue in the coming months and that we will be able to finally approve the General Budgets of the State for next year. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that trust and credibility are fundamental for the smooth running of the economy, for job creation, and ultimately for securing the income needed to maintain the welfare state. I have sought to demonstrate that Spain of 2016 is a reliable and credible country; a country in which the European institutions trust enough to renegotiate a new path of fiscal consolidation much softer than the previous one; a country in which independent bodies believe and trust, and a country in which entrepreneurs and investors are on the right track to the point of risking their money in it, and above all a country with a population that has its hopes for the future in this House and in this government. This is our responsibility and I hope that together we will not disappoint those who pay us the salary, which is the Spanish. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u102	We now turn to the last item on the agenda, on the direct and single reading of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, amending Rule 46.1. I would remind you that, in accordance with the second final provision of the Rules of Procedure, their approval will require the approval of the absolute majority of the House. Two amendments have been tabled to this proposal for reform. For the defence of his amendment and to stand in relation to the rest, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u103	Thank you, Madam President. I will be brief and make a courtesy intervention, because who should defend this UPN initiative is my partner Iñigo Alli, but it was Dad yesterday and will not be able to accompany us. From here I want to congratulate him and his wife. I am speaking only to explain the content of our amendment, which is very simple. [[The Lord]] In the amendment proposed by all the groups, there is a reform of the Rules of Procedure to bring the names of the various standing legislative committees into line with the new ministries, and what we have asked in our amendment is that of the seventeen standing and legislative committees that reflect the change, one more committee, the Committee on Integral Disability Policies, should be expanded. We have believed this moment is timely, it is a real opportunity, for some I would almost say a necessity, and in any case it is a good idea for this House to collect these policies in an independent but also important way. Disability or some type of disability affects 10% of the population, and more than 5 million families in our country have one person with disabilities. We tabled the amendment on 13 December 2016, two days ago, but ten years ago the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. We could celebrate that tenth anniversary - it is true that Spain ratified it two years later, in 2008 - with one more advance. It is true that a great deal of progress has been made during the last parliamentary term, many reforms have been made in terms of employment, subsidies, support, positive discrimination for persons with disabilities, and effective and real support, but I think it would be a good thing to start this parliamentary term with that recognition, and that disability policies have in this house the status that the other important commissions have, which are at the same level. It would be a gesture for all of us to do so. I am told that this will be adopted with the consensus and support of all groups. I congratulate you on that and thank you for having had that sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u104	Thank you, Mr. Salvador Armendáriz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Salud Areste.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of Congress which seeks to change Rule 46.1 to bring it into line with the new reality of the Government. Before we talk about the amendments we have tabled, I would like to say that we will support the UPN amendment, because it is in turn contained in our amendment. Our Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea has valued this splendid opportunity that this process offers us to introduce other modifications, which are an aspiration I would say almost shared. In particular, our amendment incorporates two more points, so that two committees become legislative: the Committee on Integral Disability Policies and the Committee on Climate Change. They are two commissions that deal with matters of major importance to our group and also to a large part of the citizenry, which require this consideration in order to develop their work, their proposals and their agreements in a quick, effective and beneficial way. In the case of the Commission for Comprehensive Disability Policies, it is also a demand expressed by Cermi, the Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities, who transferred it to the Commission at its appearance on 22 November. I would like to expressly remind you that all the groups in the House express our support for this demand at the time and there present. [[Rumors]] These amendments are not a whim of our own, they are a necessity that is supported by dramatic realities, by chilling data... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u106	Wait a minute, Mrs. Health. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u107	He spoke of dramatic realities because of the chilling data that affect our sensitivity and stir our consciences. So we can't look the other way. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not data from our group or from the radical left, they are official data, they are data from Cermi on disability policies and I will refer to them in this speech. The X-ray of disability in our country is as follows: 4 million people, almost 10%, and 12 million if we consider their family environment. In one in five households, i.e. 20 per cent, there is a disability situation; 60 per cent are women and girls, and almost 60 per cent are people over the age of sixty-five. One million of these people live in rural areas, which creates additional difficulties for their well-being, their rights and access to public care, but it is also that people with disabilities have lower income capacity and higher costs. That is, they are poorer people and they have more expenditure, poverty that has worsened in recent years of crisis, where the differential has grown with regard to the general poverty of the population; quite a shame, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, because you as a Government should be exquisite with the care of the most vulnerable groups. Persons with disabilities in Spain are in a situation of permanent, widespread, structural and inequality exclusion. Cermi's textual words, and it's not an exaggeration. When ten years of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities - precisely the day before yesterday, 13 December - have passed, many issues still remain to be implemented in our country. The United Nations has already examined Spain in 2011 and will do so again in 2017 and we know well, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u108	Mrs. Health, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, she deserves respect and the issue she is dealing with is important enough for us to listen to. I have had little success in my previous request for silence; I hope to have something else now. I beg you, please, silence because the speaker is the one we have to hear. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. He said that the United Nations is going to examine Spain in 2017 and we are well aware, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, that they are going to have a suspension. You are going to have a louder, louder suspense if it can be a vulnerable group and since you have more interest and sensitivity to save the banks and their rich friends than the people in need. I would like to conclude this paragraph with another chilling fact. Not only poverty, unemployment and inequality have a woman's face in Spain, but also disability. They suffer from much greater exclusion, greater poverty and greater exposure to abuse, violence and abuse. That is why Cermi asked us very rightly - I quote in text - that public policies on gender equality must be dyed with a disability perspective and policies on disability with a gender perspective. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, each society is measured, among other things, by the way it takes care of its most vulnerable members, and it is clear that our society does not do so. There's the data, there's his policies, there's his system, which sows poverty and despair. There is a lot of work to be done, and that is why the Committee on Integral Disability Policies must have legislative competence. Secondly, my group proposes that the Committee on Climate Change should be legislative in nature. Climate change is a pressing, urgent problem that requires immediate responses. We no longer have time, the planet is threatened by a predatory economic system that only seeks to produce and consume, in search of the maximum benefit, that is for a few, for the big companies, for their friends, for the friendly banks, lordships of the People's Group, for the elites. This is his system, his model of society, a capitalist system that kills the environment and the people we live in in that natural environment called Earth and we no longer have time. With the entry into force of the Paris Agreement and its ratification by Spain, the need to legislate against climate change is highlighted. It is a fact that today in this Congress we are already discussing the adoption of a climate change law; this is a fact, and in this context it makes every sense for the Commission to become a legislative body in order to meet all the challenges ahead. The political will against climate change is demonstrated by concrete facts and not just by words, and today we raise one of them: that this Commission should become legislative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Health. Since, within the Joint Group, the previous speaker has not exhausted the total time, I will give Mr Campuzano a speaking time, so that he can also speak within the time allotted to the Joint Group. Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u111	Thank you, Mr President, for your flexibility. Indeed, from the Democratic Party we want to express our support for these two amendments which are tabled by the Union of the Navarro People and Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Simply put, in the case of the request that the Disability Commission be legislative in nature, I will highlight two issues that are not minor: one, that if we vote in favour of this request we are responding to a historic demand from civil society that brings together the social movements of persons with disabilities, and uniquely to a request from Cermi; this is not the first time that that demand had been transferred to the groups, but it seems that on this occasion there will be a majority that makes it possible. Secondly, that the decision to consider disability-centred policies with legislative power in this Committee is not less than that, because that means that we intend to provide the rights of persons with disabilities with all the protection that comes from legislative consideration. The rights will have to be reaffirmed and some outstanding issues in our legislation, especially with regard to the incorporation of the United Nations Convention on Persons with Disabilities into Spanish legislation, will have to be incorporated into our legislative framework. We are therefore giving the Disability Commission an important power to effectively realize the rights and changes that the convention introduces. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude with this - we are not facing a simple regulatory act, a procedure, a minor one, which we can liquidate quickly, but we are taking a decision of a very important political significance for the field of persons with disabilities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. I have the floor for the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuró, to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u113	We're going to vote in favour of both of you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mr Gutiérrez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u115	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us entirely in line with what this parliamentary group has been developing since the beginning of this parliamentary term that both committees, both the Committee on Disability and the Committee on Climate Change, have this legislative character, so we will vote in favour of both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. We will support the two amendments tabled. From the People's Group it is clear that disability policy is important. The People's Group was committed to fulfilling the considerations of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and had therefore always supported the Commission as a permanent body and now supported it as a legislative body. At this time, as it is a claim in addition to the Cermi, as mentioned above, I would like to greet the managing director of the Cermi who is present among us. I would also like to clearly support the amendment so that the Committee on Climate Change can become a legislative body. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the matter is important, because it is important for the Spanish economy. It was made clear in the debate last Tuesday, and it is therefore important now that this Commission should move from permanent to permanent legislation, since the drafting of a climate change and energy transition law has been announced. With these decisions we must make it clear that, with a view to a comprehensive reform of the Regulation, it is important to see which committees have to be legislative and which do not. It needs to be addressed from a global point of view and not just on an individual basis. That is why, when we look at the reform of the Rules of Procedure as a whole, which the People's Parliamentary Group supports in Congress, it will be interesting to make this global approach. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u118	Position-fixing turn. Since we have been asked to do so at the moment, Mr Ciscar, for the Socialist Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u119	At the beginning of each legislature, it is traditional for Rule 46.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the House to be amended to bring the legislative committees into line with the structure of the Government. It was not always so, because there were times when there were fewer commissions than ministerial departments, because of the House's own availability, but for quite some years now these changes have been introduced. That is why today we are appreciating the reform initiative agreed by all the parliamentary groups in this House with the amendments that have been made. I have to say that my group, the Socialist Group, is going to vote in favour of amending Rule 46.1 of the Rules of Procedure, in addition to establishing the legislative nature that the amendments dealt with determine or seek, both in relation to the Committee on Climate Change and to the Committee on Comprehensive Disability Policies. I reiterate what has been said here with regard to Cermi's requests, the need for care and care for the most vulnerable and compliance with the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. We therefore agree with the amendments that have been tabled. [[The lady]] On the other hand, it is not the first time that one of the committees that already existed has been given the status of a legislative commission, as was already done in its day by an initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group promoted in this House for the International Development Cooperation Commission or for the Equality Commission, which, although the corresponding ministry has disappeared, fortunately has remained as a legislative commission in this House. I would also like to point out that my group states that for 20 years now there has been a coincidence on the part of the parliamentary groups to reform the Rules of Procedure of the House in order to determine the political centrality of Parliament, and to provide it with the necessary response to the immediate demands that our society poses. That is why we understand that today we are addressing specific and urgent needs, but that shortly - and it is also urgent - we will have to seek agreement between the groups in order to promote a necessary reform of the whole regulation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u120	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, having finished the agenda, we shall call a vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u121	Before voting begins and with the agreement of all groups, the institutional statement on the humanitarian situation in Aleppo will be read.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u122	Thank you, President. Institutional statement on the humanitarian situation in Aleppo. I would like to express, on behalf of the Congress of Deputies, our deep concern at the serious humanitarian situation in Syria and, in particular, at the fighting and bombing taking place in the city of Aleppo. In view of these flagrant violations of international humanitarian law, the first and absolute priority must be, in any case, at all times, the protection of the civilian population and the guarantee of free access to medical and humanitarian aid. We call for renewed efforts to re-establish the mechanisms of political dialogue and intermediation that will put an end to the war confrontation, allow for the hope of lasting peace and end the suffering of the civilian population. Finally, from this House we also express our solidarity with the entire civilian population suffering the worst consequences and is the main victim of the rest of the war conflicts in the world. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, and as a symbol of our solidarity with the inhabitants of the Syrian city of Aleppo, the illumination of the Congress of Deputies will be extinguished after eight o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u123	Let's start the voting. We voted on the motions as a result of urgent appeals. Firstly, that of the Vasco PNV Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken to alleviate the worrying increase in alcohol consumption in minors. The vote will take place on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 327 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u124	It's approved. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the replies of the Government of Spain to the 46 items adopted on 20 April by the President, Mr Puigdemont. [[HOMS LORD]] [[File number 173/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u125	We shall now proceed to vote on the joint parliamentary group, Mr Homs, on the replies given by the Government of Spain to the forty-six issues raised on 20 April by President Puigdemont. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 91 against, 244 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u126	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u127	We proceed to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, we will vote on Royal Decree-Law 4/2016 of 2 December on urgent financial measures. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 258; against, 70 plus 2 telematics votes, 72; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u128	The Royal Decree-Law is validated. We shall now proceed to the vote on the processing of this Royal Decree-Law 4/2016 of 2 December 2016 on urgent financial measures, as a bill for urgent procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 77 plus 1 telematics vote, 78; against, 257 plus 1 telematics vote, 258; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u129	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 3/2016 OF 2 DECEMBER, BY WHICH MEASURES ARE ADOPTED IN THE TRIBUTARY FRAMEWORK ADDRESSED TO THE CONSOLIDATION OF PUBLIC FINANCES AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES IN SOCIAL MATTER. [[File number 130/00002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u130	We then proceed to vote on Royal Decree-Law 3/2016 of 2 December, adopting tax measures aimed at consolidating public finances and other urgent social measures. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 212 plus 2 telematics votes, 214; against, 11; abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u131	The Royal Decree-Law is validated. We then vote in favour of the bill for the urgent procedure of Royal Decree-Law 3/2016 of 2 December, which provides for tax measures aimed at consolidating public finances and other urgent measures in the social field. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 117 plus 1 telematics vote, 118; against, 215 plus 1 telematics vote, 216; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u132	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u133	We will then vote on the Government's agreement to align the budgetary stability and public debt target for all public administrations and each of their subsectors by 2016. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 248 plus 2 telematics votes, 250; against, 86; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u134	The Government's agreement was approved. - AGREEMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT ESTABLISHING THE OBJECTIVES OF BUDGETARY ESTABLISHMENT AND PUBLIC DEBT FOR THE COMPETITION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS AND OF EVERY SUBJECT TO THE 2017-2019 PERIOD AND THE NON-FINANCIAL EXPENDITURE LIMIT OF THE STATE BUDGET FOR 2017. [[File number 430/00002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u135	We then proceed to the Government's agreement to set the budgetary stability and public debt targets for all public administrations and each of their subsectors for the period 2017-2019 and the non-financial expenditure limit of the state budget for 2017. The objectives of budgetary stability and public debt proposed by the Government are voted upon. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; 249 plus 2 telematics votes, 251; 87; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u136	They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u137	We shall now proceed to vote on the direct and single reading of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1. Firstly, we voted for the amendment to the joint parliamentary group, Mr Alli Martínez and Mr Salvador Armendáriz. Amendment number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u138	It's approved. We then voted on the amendment to the joint text of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Amendment No 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes; 337 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u139	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u140	Finally, the general vote referred to in Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure is to be taken, which, in accordance with the second final provision, will require the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the House. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-15-CD161215.u141	It's approved. Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
