ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Pedro María Azpiazu I ask Dona Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u2	On legal imperative, yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u3	In place of Don José María Lassalle Ruiz I ask Don Diego Movellán Lombilla if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u4	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u5	Doña Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea and don Diego Movellán Lombilla have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u6	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda consisting of the exchange of the order of the debate on points 29, on the urgent inquiry of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, and 31, on the urgent inquiry of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and therefore point 31 would be discussed first and point 29 last. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The said amendment was therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u7	We begin with the first item on the agenda. I would like to welcome the delegation of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, headed by the President of the Canary Islands and the President of the Parliament. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] We started the debate on the whole proposal for the reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy. We are joined by two representatives of the Parliament of the Canary Islands who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I also welcome on behalf of the whole House, Mr José Miguel Ruano León and Mr Iñaki Álvaro Lavandera. I give the floor first of all to Mr José Miguel Ruano León. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me on behalf of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, as spokesman for the Canarian Nationalist Group, to make this presentation to the House with the aim of taking into consideration the proposal for the autonomous status of the Canary Islands which we approved in the archipelago, after a long process, at the end of the last autonomous legislature, on 24 March 2015. [[Canary Islands-PNC Coalition]] The proposal started from a previous period of citizen participation in the government phase. It was then endorsed by two parliamentary groups, the Canarian Nationalist and the Socialist, representing three-fifths of the majority of the Canarian Parliament, thirty-six seats. Ladies and gentlemen, when the proposal for a reform of the statute was adopted, an agreement with the People's Parliamentary Group was not possible in the Canary Islands for political reasons that did not come into play at the time. The truth is that today we are in a position to express and thank the willingness of the People's Party of the Canary Islands to join a new status of autonomy for the archipelago, an agreement that has been outlined in several recent meetings held through the Ministry of the Presidency and for the Territorial Administrations. We also hope that other groups, especially our partner in the European elections, the Basque Nationalist Party, as well as New Canarias and those newly created parties that today have a presence in the Courts and the Parliament of the Canary Islands. We want to be in the state, and in it we want to have sufficient tools to develop our government within a comfortable framework, to exercise our powers, to do so with sufficient resources, to give economic and social development to the people of the archipelago. Is the 1982 Statute sufficient, with a small, partial reform, 1996? Is that statutory framework sufficient for the new political, economic and social scenario of the 21st century? For us the answer is no. It is not a sufficient framework and we must aspire to more. Our proposal is to move from responsibility to a framework that allows the agreement and we do so by improving the self-government and the fit of the Canary Islands in Spain as a unique, differentiated, distant and island nationality, which today has express recognition in the primary law of the European Union, Article 349 of the Treaty of Functioning, as the outermost region of the Union, together with Madeira, the Azores and the French overseas territories. That lace, ladies and gentlemen, this difference has existed since the Canary Islands joined the Crown of Castile in the 15th century. Until the 18th century, in the Canary Islands there were distinguishing features of the Spanish metropolis: participation in the commercial monopoly with the American colonies, in the special taxation that it has always had and in the differentiated monetary system that it had until the end of the 18th century. It is in the first half of the 19th century when a uniformizing process takes place, lethal for the island economy, until the decree of Bravo Murillo of 1852, with the free ports, arrives. And it is later, with the Law of Ports Francos of 1900, the creation of the cabildos in 1912 and until the end of the twentieth century with the Spanish Constitution itself, the democratic transition and the approval of the Statute of 1982 when there was a special treatment, but there was no response to the fit of the Canary Islands in Spain until the time of the statute. We are therefore exercising a responsibility for the future of the Canary Islands in the medium and long term. We are in a position to promote, to work, to promote a new statute for a period of between twenty and twenty-five years, and to serve as an effective tool to place the Canary Islands on the highest levels of economic and social development; an Atlantic archipelago, a platform of European and Spanish policies towards Africa, in which self-government allows us to exercise leadership in the Middle Atlantic, together with other archipelagos of Macaronesia, promoting the competitiveness of our economy in globalisation, ensuring the environmental sustainability and social cohesion of a population of more than 2 million people. To this end, the new statute will be a tool that starts with what we are: a single people settled in an archipelago, land territory and maritime territory that form a single land, without prejudice to international conventions and state domination over the territorial sea. This recognition of our reality requires, as already happens in the action of the European Union towards the Canary Islands, the modulation of the policies and actions of the State in the fields of transport, telecommunications, the internal market, energy, the environment, ports, airports, immigration, taxation, external trade and development cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands is undoubtedly a different, unique territory, and that is where your right to the same welfare rates as the rest of the autonomous communities lie. In that spirit, we also propose a new framework for public rights and freedoms of citizens, as is the case with second-generation statutes. In electoral matters, we have established statutory bases, lowering ceilings and encouraging changes that will help to study a reform by canarian law, from the conjugation in a single House of the population and the territory on the basis of balance and solidarity. In the context of the settlement of disputes, we will be at what is decided within the overall framework of Spain, although our proposal does not protect parliamentarians, but rather the legislative role, as is already the case with the judicial role in the settlement of judges and judges. Ladies and gentlemen, since the 15th century, with the incorporation of the Canary Islands into the Crown of Castile, the Canary Islands has a differentiated economic and fiscal regime. Recognized by the Constitution in its third additional provision, the doctrine of the Constitutional Court has interpreted it only as a guarantee of procedure. Until the constitutional text is updated, the statute must ensure that the process of reforming and updating the REF has sufficient institutional guarantees through agreement with the State. The new canary statute is intended to be the basic institutional norm for the self-government of our Atlantic archipelago, which recognizes our differential facts, our unique identity and facilitates the coexistence of all the peoples of Spain. Therefore, from the debate and vote in this House we hope that it will be taken into consideration and that, from the dialogue, we will be able to enrich and improve it throughout the subsequent process, in order to achieve a status that we can all defend and support and that will become a useful tool for the development of the Canary Islands within the Spanish constitutional framework. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u9	Thank you very much. Then you have the word Don Iñaki Álvaro Lavandera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u10	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, and allow me also a special greeting to the delegation that is with us from the Canary Islands, representing both the Government, its President and Vice-President at the head, and its Parliament, headed by its President and also accompanied by the Bureau of the House, among other Members of Parliament. I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Party of the Canary Islands-PSOE, a party that has strongly and convincingly defended the reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy. We did so on the occasion of the 2006 draft amendment and also in 2015, when the Parliament of the Canary Islands approved the initiative we are debating today. Already in 2014, from the government of the Canary Islands, the socialists promoted the reform that we then improved, completed and perfected in Parliament. Our vision of reform has been to preserve the autonomous community as the representation of the Canarian people, the general autonomous interest and the guarantee of equal rights of all island citizens in access to public services. And, once again, we are here today to defend the reform of the Canary Islands Statute, a reform that implies an ambitious update of our constituent norm to face with guarantees the future of our land. Ten years have passed since the Canary Islands began the process of reforming its statute; ten years in which we have seen how other communities have been reforming theirs. Balearic Islands, Navarre, Andalusia, Valencia, Castile and León, Aragon and Extremadura all have state-of-the-art statutes, a legitimate aspiration of the Canary Islands. The first thing I would like to ask is that the Canary Islands should not be denied what has already been given to other territories. And this is not out of desire for any imitation, but - as I will try to say - for the will to strengthen the autonomous development of the Canary Islands and to update its order. For these ten years, I want to thank all the people who have made it possible today, a historic day for the Canary Islands, that we can propose this text, and I want to have a special memory for my predecessor, recently deceased, who defended in this same rostrum nine years ago, on behalf of my political group, the need for reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Canary Islands, Juan Carlos Alemán Santana. [[Applauds]] A decade that has served to bring here a text that better understands our singularities, typical of a remote territory, fragmented in islands, in the outermost regions of Europe and in the Middle Atlantic; a text that better understands our aspirations and that contributes to being an asset for the whole of Spain and Europe in the geopolitical area in which our Archipelago is inserted; a text that aims above all to improve the quality of life of people living in the Canary Islands, regardless of the island in which they reside. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with one of the greatest challenges in the Canary Islands: the need for a statute that responds better to our problems, that recognises with greater intensity our own peculiarities, that seeks to improve the development of our constitutional system and that also corrects the shortcomings of our autonomous institutions. For this reason, and with the main objective of achieving greater economic development and greater social cohesion on our islands, we demand to expand our competences and we also propose a new catalogue of rights for our citizens, in order to strengthen social protection in our autonomous community in the areas of health, education, equality, family, access to housing, employment or the right to a guaranteed income of citizenship, among others. We are also proposing a more democratic statute, a statute that establishes the foundations for an electoral system in which all political sensitivities in the Canary Islands can feel comfortable and which further legitimizes the representation of citizens; that it helps to overcome one of the island's historical obstacles: the political cohesion of the islands; that it can parallel the autonomous project with the representation base to be supported in Parliament. A statute that incorporates in the constitutional building of our country the recognition of our singularities, which is nothing other than the recognition of our physical reality as territory, our structural barriers, our remoteness and insularity; therefore, we speak of a fair treatment on the part of the whole State. A statute that also expands and improves our capacity for self-government and proposes new legal coverage that strengthens our historic and unique economic and fiscal regime. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not ask for anything that the European institutions have not already given us. We ask for nothing that is not respectful of our legal system, with the Spanish Constitution. It is a statute that grants new tools to the Government of the Canary Islands to be more effective in its task: new powers, the possibility to issue decree-laws or to dissolve the Parliament of the Canary Islands and to convene elections. A statute that virtually eliminates the discussion of parliamentarians, limiting their effects to those assumed to be derived from the exercise of their function as such; that is, to what they vote in Parliament. A statute whose next amendments must be submitted to the will of the Canarian people, which must endorse the text in the ballot box. In short, a text with which the canaries identify themselves, in which they will be able to find the illusion of a people for improving their governance, for strengthening their institutions, for bringing decisions on strategic elements for an archipelago like the canary, whose insular reality conditions the day-to-day life of its inhabitants and its own nature. It is a statute that you will be able to share to a greater or lesser extent, but I am sure that you will come to understand that behind each and every one of our political aspirations there is a reality of commitment to all and all of us living in the Canary Islands and to what the Canary Islands means. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a plea, a plea for understanding, a hope for success in this second opportunity for reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy. To fail again would be frustrating for the Canary Islands, so I can only ask them to give their best to agree, to put the Canary Islands above the acronyms and the political differences, so as not to lose another decade. We have already spent too much time and effort and we must not miss this opportunity. Some may view the current configuration of this House as a difficulty. Let me say that from the Canarian Socialist Parliamentary Group, from the Socialist Party in the Canary Islands, we see it as an opportunity, an opportunity for other political forces who now have representation in the Canaries Parliament or in this House and who do not have it in that Parliament to join in building our autonomy. A Congress without absolute majorities must be an opportunity and not an obstacle to understanding; an opportunity for dialogue policy, an opportunity to do great things for your country, and this is one of them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u11	Thank you very much. Position-fixing turn. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u12	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. An affectionate and cordial welcome to the wide and nourished representation of the Parliament of the Canary Islands that accompanies us today and also a greeting to the representatives of the Civic Democratic Forum for Change, which is, in our opinion, developing an interesting work in that our land. Five minutes is not much time to talk about the Canary Islands Autonomy Statute and so I will try to be synthetic and highlight the aspects that seem to us most relevant. New Canarias - I must go ahead now - will support, as it cannot otherwise be, this proposal for reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy, and we do so because we understand that it has clear elements that are superior to what the current statute implies, from the point of view of increasing self-government, from the point of view of strengthening our economic and fiscal regime, from the point of view of including a broad chapter of rights and duties that we believe is novel and from any point of view relevant and from the point of view of defining our territory. You are aware that the Autonomous Statute of the Canary Islands of 1996 defines the territory of the Canary Islands as a set of islands and some islands supported on ether, or on dark matter, if anyone likes astronomy. This is unreasonable. And here we are talking about the need to define the sea, because the sea is an inescapable part of our territory, and we are talking about using a procedure, the development of straight baselines to establish the contours of that sea and delimit everything that needs to be delimited afterwards. If this had already been resolved, perhaps we would not have had to suffer what we suffered with the famous mania of conducting oil explorations in the Canary Islands despite having had the vast majority of Canarian society against it. But it is also true - it has been said - that this statute comes here ten years after the previous one; ten years are many years, a loss of opportunity with regard to the numerous autonomous communities that took advantage of what came to be called the second generation statute. And this loss of opportunity did not occur as a result of a very deep debate and a tremendous discrepancy over the general contents of the statute, unfortunately it occurred because there was a proposal for the withdrawal of that statute in 2007 by, at that time, the Canary Coalition and the People's Party, and the reason, of course, was not the one I have commented on, the reason, I am afraid, was the fear that a reform of the electoral system would take place in this process. Because it is true that the reason that was argued was that it is indeed not reasonable - and I defend it - for this Congress of Deputies to develop an electoral system that is actually expected to be the product of a law of the Parliament of the Canary Islands. No one better than me understands that. The problem is that it takes thirty-four years to define a canarian electoral system in a transitional provision in the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy; thirty-four years seems to have less to do with the transition and more with eternity, with the eternity of a process that would never end, because there really is no will to correct the abnormal canarian electoral system to the extent that this would have been necessary. Indeed, from the withdrawal in 2007 until now it remains in the transitional provision, as it continues to be in this proposal for a statute. It is true that in the unacceptable limits that occur, the barriers to access to the Parliament of the Canary Islands located - listen well - in 30% insular and 6% in the community as a whole, have moved to 15% insular and 3% in the Canarian community. Man, 15% in the basic electoral constituency that is the island is, at least, a sort of exoticism that is difficult to overcome if you think so. Nor is it reasonable for 83% of the population to decide 50% of parliamentarians and 17% of the population to decide the other 50%. This must be corrected and we must seize - because we do not believe the will to solve it in the Canary Islands - the opportunity and try to solve it here. It is necessary to lay the foundations for a just, democratic electoral system; it is necessary to improve the democratic quality in the Canary Islands, and for that the first touchstone there is no doubt that this is the case. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u14	Thank you, Madam President. My homeland is not the world; / my homeland is not Europe; / my homeland is of an almond / sweet, fresh, unforgettable shadow. / My spirit is island / like the coast homelands, / where the sea stars / in foams breaking and in notes. Mr President of the Government of the Canary Islands, Vice-President, President of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, Canarian Members and the rest of the delegation, the Canary Islands is an Atlantic archipelago. Thus begins, in its article 1, the new statute of autonomy and on that turns all this new statute. In 1972 the Law on Economic and Fiscal Regime was adopted; in 1978 the Canarian deputies who were here introduced this economic and fiscal regime into the Constitution; in 1982 our status of autonomy was approved, and in 1997 the Treaty of Amsterdam recognized the status of ultra-perificity of the Canaries, which would be already in 2009 in the Treaty of Lisbon, in what is known as the European Constitution. To recognize the geographical, territorial and cultural difference and to guarantee our uniqueness is to equal us to the rest of the Spanish and Europeans, and now our ambition is that when the Constitution of this country is reformed, that condition of ultra-perificity is in the new Spanish Constitution. For us the theme of the territory is very important, to define the archipelago as one people, a land that is united by the sea. Thus, in article 4 we talk about the spatial scope of the autonomous community made up of the sea, seven islands and finally we recognize the status of island to the Graciosa, which was previously considered as island territory. This status updated to the last generation, which already reflects the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, is a commitment to the self-government and singularities of the Canary Islands; with new competences, one with exclusive dedication and other shared, competences as important for the Canary Islands as the coasts, such as maritime transport, such as inter-insular air service, such as fishing inspection, such as external health, such as plant health control, and that is known by the palm trees of our ports and airports, as well as participation in the management of ports and airports and the telecommunications and radio-electric areas. In this statute we recognize the essential rights of citizens and oblige the institutions to promote and defend them. We talk about equality, we talk about fighting gender-based violence, we talk about the rights of minors and the elderly, we talk about historical memory, we talk about living will, we talk about education and housing, and about the right to a citizenship income. With this clear status we shield our economic and fiscal rights, but we also - much more importantly - shield the rights of the citizens of our land. For this reason, today we call for the support of all groups to be taken into consideration. We are not defending a text of statute today, we are advocating that consideration should begin and that all groups should be able to make the contributions that can enrich it and that, in the end, this statute should proceed with the greatest consensus, with the support of the People's Party and that of the Socialist Party, but also with the incorporation of the new political forces. Before I finish, I would like to remind people who have been vital to get here today: Manolo Hermoso, who obtained the recognition of ultra-perificity; Victoriano Ríos and Juan Manuel García Ramos - who is here today - who fought for the recognition of our waters and the concept of the canary as a frontier Atlantic, and Adam Martín, who initiated and promoted this new status for our land. I end as I began, with the sea, the sea that defines us and makes us island, that separates us and distances us from the continent and, therefore, is the origin of our undeniable differential fact: double insularity and remoteness. I end with the eternal verses of our poet of the sea, Pedro García Cabrera: I am not from a city. / I belong to the sea. / Water cots, / island rattlesnakes, / rumor pennies / and seagull compass. / This is the inheritance / of my blood in vile. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u15	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u16	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the delegation of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, which has just presented us with the proposal to reform its statute, adopted thirty-five years ago, back in 1982. The statute of the eighties of the last century that has helped in the modernization process of Canarian society and that is now proposed to update to the new challenges and needs of this twenty-first century; century that is characterized by the outbreak of a world with a new global economy, in which, paradoxically, the local factor resurrects as an element of competitiveness. The axis of the new global economy is the specialized and intelligent regions and it is said that the paradox of economic globalization is that it strengthens the local, it strengthens the local communities, it makes viable - as is said - the small players, the city and the regions are the protagonists of the encounter between the local and the global, that is why we talk about the 'glocal'. This is precisely why specialized local regional strategies are required, with regionalized positions close to each other from their own differentiated strategies. The new economic spaces in an economically globalized world are interdependent competitive platforms, playing a new global and local decalogue, and in which this latter factor plays the difference. New generating spaces in turn of networks, a new world of new players, new cooperative and competitive alliances at the same time. That's why we talk about 'co-oppetitive' relationships. In short, each region must seek its own economic space to compete and collaborate from it. It is therefore necessary to repair, once again, that the leading countries in human development and competitiveness, with their own and differentiated responses, are highly decentralized countries, with quasi-confederal schemes, with regionalized spaces with their own institutional frameworks and with stable regional public policies and strategies, with undiminished capacities. A new global strategy that also demands that regional communities, new players, work in a network, as I said, connected to the vanguard of knowledge but settled in their original spaces. Without forgetting the need for shared strategies and commitments between the developed and developing worlds for poverty eradication, for climate change and for the sustainability of the planet. For this reason, in the new global economy that comes to us, small players are one of their keys and, in this sense, it is consequent that Canarias demands a new political framework to position itself in this new economy in a more competitive way, to enhance its own and differentiated strategies that will help it become a specialized region within the framework of this new global economy. It is also for this reason that the Canary Islands proposes to establish a new political status that will enable it to meet with guarantees and from its peculiarities the new challenges that challenge it; a new statute that does not establish a particular political-institutional regime, but that updates it, because if something has characterized the Canary Islands, as evidenced by the statement of reasons, it has been its unique identity, with a manifestation in a particular regulatory, administrative, institutional, economic and fiscal regime, motivated mainly by its geographical circumstances of remoteness and insularity, in addition to the historical circumstance of its late incorporation into the Crown of a physical and cultural reality completely different from that crown; the reality of remoteness and insularity to which, most recently, its ultraperipheral status recognized by the Treaties of the Union has been added. Circumstances all of these that have not only determined a singular political-institutional and economic reality, but have also generated another peculiarity of the Archipelago and its people, such as being the link with America, as well as having generated a close relationship with European reality and, more modernly, with the North of Africa-Atlantic, so vital in our day for European and Western interests of all kinds. In short, the proposal presented today by the delegation of the Parliament of the Canary Islands to reform its Statute of Autonomy aims to strengthen its self-government in order to meet the immediate and future challenges facing the Canarian society in a world of global economy, together with the consolidation of its welfare state, by providing for administrative institutions that allow for a more active participation of the citizenry and that make more effective the principles of transparency and effectiveness; it is also relevant milestones of the proposal to expand its competitive acquis, to consolidate its particular economic and fiscal regime, and very uniquely to the new delimitation of its spatial area on which to project its self-government, which includes as an important novelty the sea between the islands of the Archipelago in the way of inland waters. The interior sea has been an element of separation as a natural physical barrier, but at the same time an element of self-representation of the Archipelago, as it is self-visualized as unity through the hilvanes of its sea between its islands, a symbolic and competitive element of first order. I can only conclude by saying that our parliamentary group will support the consideration of the proposal for the new Statute for the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u17	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u18	President, members of the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government of the Canary Islands who have come to present this Statute of Autonomy, President of the Government of the Canary Islands, Vice-President of the Government of the Canary Islands and other parliamentarians of the Parliament of the Canary Islands who are present today, Citizens do want a text that represents all the Canary Islands, but, I repeat, all the Canary Islands. We must tell them that this text was adopted just before the call for new elections. Mr Lavandera has said that it is a text that is part of democracy, part of dialogue, and it must be said that this text was only supported by the members of the Government, that is, by the Socialist Party and by the Canary Coalition, with which dialogue, which is now being dialogue, allows me to doubt it. It also seems to us that it is a kind of copy and paste of some autonomy statutes that there has been, even reminds us in many respects of the Catalan Statute before the Constitutional Court's ruling. It is a statute of maxims, which even sometimes seeks the disappearance of the island State, which also provides for the assumption of State powers by the autonomous community itself. We believe that it is an outdated text, which clashes with the aspects even of the possible constitutional reform that we all believe needs our Constitution. Moreover, it does not defend my rights, it does not defend the rights of all canaries, for example, when it places the reform of the Electoral Law in a transitional provision. Something as important as the Electoral Law, at least, should be in the joint. But in order for your ladies and gentlemen to understand what we are talking about with the reform of the Electoral Law, I will tell you that not only is this wording confusing, but the electoral barriers in the Canary Islands, as Mr Quevedo has rightly mentioned, are 30% island and 6% regional. Clearly, as you will understand, there is no electoral system in this country that has such electoral barriers. In addition, it has an incomprehensible voting proportionality. For example, in the Canary Islands, 17.1 the compensation of the vote; the next most disproportionate of the rest of the country is 3.8, which is that of the Congress of Deputies. As you will understand, there seem to be canaries of one class and another, because the compensation of the vote has no justification whatsoever. 13% of the canary votes in the autonomous past were left in the trash or in the sea, because there are more than 113,000 canary votes that are not represented in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. And already as a curious fact I will tell you that even the democratic system of Tanzania, the electoral system of Tanzania is more proportionate than that of the Canary Islands, which should make us reflect. In the Canary Islands it is governing the third force in votes, which for the electoral system is the first force in seats. It's the rules of the game, we understand them, but we think it's a fact that you should all know. There are some things we were proposing, and here are the lords of the Democratic Platform for Change, to which we have subscribed with this agreement. We believe that it is essential that before 2019 the electoral barriers be lowered and proportionality improved by thinking of all the canaries, because we do want all the canaries to be represented and not just some, and a person from a small island says so, as some call the island of La Palma. Administration of justice. As it is written, excuse that it seems a bit foolish to us, because in the end for us the Judicial Power is one, not many different autonomous councils. What is clear is that this text does not reflect, or they do not know the ruling of the Constitutional Court or directly do not want to apply it, one of two. On the one hand, they speak of stifling in parliamentary activity. You understand that we cannot support this measure in any way, as we believe that the figure of the pinnacle today has no reason to be. On the other hand, it dictates an ad hoc justice. Anyone would say that there is some kind of fear that they may begin to circulate or pass some kind of authority through the canarian justice system and that they need to be limited or to seek the determined power to control those judicial processes. We hope that it will only be a supposition and that it will not be the will pursued by this text. We are talking about competences, more competences for the Canary Islands; competences that are also intended to shield even above the rights of the Constitution and the competences of the State. The powers of Community law are not taken into account either, and the local authority and the local authorities are also violated. I do not know whether the municipalities of the islands have supported this particular point. But to talk about competences, so that your ladies and gentlemen understand it too, let's talk about competences that do exist in the Canary Islands government and that are being mismanaged. For example, healing. Most canaries, more than 80% of canaries, believe that their health is not good, that it is inefficient. Of course, we all understand - we have gathered this in our electoral programme - that in the Canary Islands, because it is a fragmented territory, basic services cost 17% more, and that must be acknowledged, but there is a huge difference between bad management. We also have, ladies and gentlemen, the record on health waiting lists. Here's the data. The Spanish average is 89 days, the Canary Islands 175 days. But what's more, I'm going to tell you a practical case. Three days ago, last Saturday, on my island, on the island of La Palma, a landscaped woman who was there, with tears in her eyes told me that she had been waiting for an emergency surgery for a year. He has already passed the tests of anesthesia; he has to do them again. Do you really believe that these are more competencies or that we are starting to work to ensure that those we have manage them well? Let's move on to education. The PISA report also came out last week. Our colleague Marta, who is educated - she is not in Congress - was warning us that the report would come out. Surprise, the data of Canary Islands the worst in the country. I just want to tell you that, for example, in mathematics Spain is in 486 and the Canary Islands has a rating of 452. I don't want to think that canarian children don't have the same skills or that canarians don't have the same educational capacity. Perhaps it is being done badly; perhaps the fund is not demanding more and more skills, but beginning to know how to manage what we have. Because what makes no sense is that we have the country's highest drop-out rate and, in addition, linked to education, the country's highest teenage pregnancy rate as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the issue is not one of more competence but of better management. We are talking about the fact that this text is intended to be a small constitution and there is a figure in the autonomous budgets which is also substantially attractive to us. The foreign policy budgets of the Government of the Canary Islands increase by 32%, those of R & D+i disappear, there is no departure. Of course yes, above all reinforcing autonomy and image on the outside and thinking about all the canaries, of course yes. There is talk of marine waters, of canary waters. This is an issue that we will have to discuss in depth, and that is where they will have us because it makes no sense for the islands to have international waters, but as it is written today, ladies and gentlemen, it goes against international treaties such as those of the UN. Cape Verde is an example; I want to tell you that Cape Verde is a country, it is not an archipelago of a country, with which it has a catalogue of territorial waters that it is recognized. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u19	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. It is impossible from here to listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u20	Thank you, President. We share - of course, we have said so - that the Canary Islands should be recognised as the outermost region of Europe, and that the island's fiscal economic regime should continue to be defended. They will have us there in Brussels defending it because it is what we are, an ultra-peripheral region of Europe, and defending all the interests of the Canary Islands which, by being in the European treaties, ladies and gentlemen, is not only defended here but, above all, has to be fought in Brussels. These days, moreover, it was said - and one of the proponents said it in various interviews - that there had to be dialogue, which he hoped all parties would support this text. I want to say that we have been asking for a year that the Canary Islands Government should receive us to talk about the Canary Islands, to talk about what the Canary Islands needs and we should be able to apply it here. Without further delay, Mr President of the Government of the Canary Islands, last Friday we again registered in the Presidency of the Government of the Canary Islands a request to meet, to meet, to meet, to talk about what concerns us that it is nothing but the Canary Islands. Or don't you want to talk to us? Am I not a canary like the rest? Can't I defend the islands just like the rest? There is one thing I do not understand and it is how the Socialist Party was able to support this text when it claims more nationalism and more difference from the rest of the autonomous communities and the country, curious things. A text that wants more nationalism, that wants more fracture, that wants more inequality or, what is the same, that wants less Canary Islands for the Canaries is impossible to go forward because we do not have to choose between being canaries or being Spanish, gentlemen, nor being European; we can be all at once. And that's what we stand for. Citizens of course want a text for all the canaries and in which all the canaries are heard and who represent us all, those of the big islands, those of the small islands as well and those of the islets that are considered here as islands and that we believe that, at least, they should have a consideration of municipality and not as something separate. We are here to work for the Canary Islands, we have done this since day one and, Mr President and Vice-President of the Government of the Canary Islands, we are ready to work for the Canary Islands. We've asked him many times to sit down and talk for the canaries. Unfortunately, thinking more about politics and less about the Canary Islands means they don't want the Canary Islands to move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u21	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u22	President, President of the Government of the Canary Islands, Vice-President, President of Parliament, Speakers of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, Members of Parliament, Canarian civil society, good afternoon to all. Today we are presented with a Statute of the Canary Islands after in the middle of the transition, in 1982, the text that is intended to be amended here, drafted by a group of representatives of the island oligarchy who, in the face of the incipient Spanish democracy, were more concerned to maintain their quotas of power than to claim then a Canary Islands for their people and for their people. This is what they did in the Cañadas, in the so-called Pact of the Cañadas, to tie their domain with a shameful electoral system that places us as the most anti-democratic electoral system in the world, according to a study by the Autonomous University of Madrid. He said Second Delgado - a tireless instigator of our national consciousness - that the chieftain in the Canary Islands was a kind of pope and that each of the islands was his particular Vatican State. He said so a century ago, and unfortunately, he is still right, and this statement remains true. The sociology of power in our Archipelago has these autocracy limbs and is drawing in each of our seven lands an amalgam of picturesque exploits and abusers who believe that the institutions are theirs and who can do whatever they want. I'm telling you this because these people's hand and handwriting sign this proposal for a statute. They are exactly the same, the same who have persistently agitated the division between the canaries, the same insular lawsuit as a tool for their personal income, the ones of the divide and you will overcome, the ones at all worth in order to remain in power. An irrefutable proof of this is that the text before us today does not speak of an electoral reform as a result of a constituent process in the Archipelago and I no longer tell you - because it is not true - about the essential rights of the Canary Islands in our land being shielded, and I will give you figures because the figures, eloquent as always, speak for themselves. In the Canary Islands we have the lowest salaries and pensions in the whole state, 3,000 euros below the annual average. One of the highest unemployment rates, 26% at the moment, about 290,000 people are looking for work and not finding it. A youth unemployment rate above, of course, the state average, 46%. We also have the largest number of long-term unemployed, almost half of those without employment on the islands. We have an unsustainable number of people who receive a payroll below the minimum wage. Too bad the Minister of Employment isn't here, Mrs. Báñez. Let's see if anyone from the PP tells you that in the Canary Islands, 37.2% of our working population earns a payroll below the minimum wage. They will say that it is because they have a half-day contract, but we all know that half-day contracts the only means they have is pay. In a Canarian population of 2,100,000 people, 598,000 rural people are at risk of poverty; 724,000 islanders experience many difficulties in reaching the end of the month; 1,400,000 say they are not willing to face any unforeseen expenses, and almost the same amount cannot be allowed to go on vacation. Look, we are an internationally successful tourist destination - this year 14 million tourists, who have left 17 billion euros - and yet more than half of our population cannot even leave for a couple of days on vacation. That is the Canary Islands that has bequeathed to us the political project of its oligarchies, always held on to the misery of the islandist struggles and the painful rigour of the social inequality that lives in our land. This is the country that leaves Coalition Canaria and its partner - now the PSOE, then the PP - after twenty-five years in the government of Canarias, a quarter of a century. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Coalition is more than a party, a board of directors that trades with our land, with our nature, with our culture and with our people. Although his spokesman, sometimes in a very palatable and fallacious way, wants to make the opposite happen, that is the reality of the Canary Islands; and the reality is that they have been responsible for twenty-five years and are responsible after twenty-five years. [[Applauds]] For the minority they represent, they are always the benefits; for the vast majority of the population of the Canary Islands is exploitation, is precariousness and is poverty. This status sets us as a priority the development of one of our great strengths: renewable energies. We have the best conditions for this, we can develop them all: wind, hydraulic, solar and geothermal. International experts say that we are Saudi Arabia's clean energies, but this draft statute before us today does not set that priority. We also have a kind soil on which to walk towards that necessary, indispensable food sovereignty. These two are survival issues for the Canary Islands and they are because only if we achieve greater levels of sovereignty will we be able to leave behind the deep chains of colonialism. It's called, ladies and gentlemen, colonialism. Dependent economy, social breakdown, these are the chains of our people; chains that have made us, since we have registered, the most unequal land in all of Spain. Mr Alvaro Lavandera, a fellow member of the PSOE, we do not want a catalogue of rights that is a catalogue of intentions, we want facts. This statute presented to us today is not a statute for all and for all. Not once does universal accessibility appear in any of its 201 articles or provisions, it does not focus on people's real problems. They have heard us say to the satisfaction that poverty kills and in this statute no mention is made of the situation of social emergency suffered by the citizens of the Canary Islands and that we have outlined in a few facts. What to tell them about the gender perspective; neither does it develop. And there will be no real equality until we realize that the fight against macho violence and its prevention is a top priority in all areas, in all forums. With this status they speak of our REF, our furo. Well, with this statute we are not going to have a REF that reactivates the primary sector, which is oriented towards job creation, to public services; on the contrary, you draw a REF so that these small minorities of large entrepreneurs continue to be enriched which, in short, is for whom - and I say this by the mouth of our president, Mr Clavijo - is governed in the Canary Islands. And I repeat, I repeat and emphasize: The resources that our land possesses are not enhanced to produce clean energy and basic foodstuffs, which are two key areas for achieving more sustainable development, for creating decent and quality jobs, and for moving towards a more just society. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not our statute, it cannot be. Our status must be the text of all the Canary Islands and all the Canary Islands; archipelagic affinity must prevail instead of inter-island struggles. Our status cannot and should not leave anyone behind; it must shield our public services, fight against macho violence and also fight for universal accessibility, the right to housing and the right to work, without forgetting key issues such as the restoration of our natural and cultural heritage, which are so abandoned. Allow me now to boast a little. I'm sure many of you don't know that, but we are the most biodiversity-rich territory in Europe. That is the Canary Islands we want, a Canary Islands of all and of all, a land just and capable, yes, of learning from its past to build a future of equality. We want a Canary Islands focused on respect for the rights of its people, a green, sustainable, more self-sufficient Canary Islands, where economic development is linked to the right to work and to work with rights, where the benefits do not have to go outside and the money is not taken and runs. And, above all, we want an Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands that is no longer anyone's storehouse, but a cohesive, modern, democratic, free and peaceful territory. That is why we are going to vote against this proposal. We want the statute to return to the institutions where the sovereignty of the Canarian people resides, and to grow there as part of a constituent process, legitimized by the social majority. Only then should its content be discussed in this Congress and then approved through a binding citizen referendum. That's real democracy. That, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. Canary Islands needs a much better text than this. We deserve an autonomous constitution in which our people have actively participated, not this simulation of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, the Canary Islands deserves a status of seven stars, and this is not. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u23	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Franquis Vera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all welcome this broad delegation of the Canary Islands, its President and its Vice-President of the Government, the President of the Parliament of the Canary Islands and all the members of the Bureau, as well as the presidents of lobbyists and parliamentarians of each of the political forces that give us the honour of attending this debate, which I do not know if it is a historic debate - I do not know - because that was exactly what was said ten years ago, which was going to be a historic debate, but unfortunately ten years later, we are in the same debate. If we have this debate in this House today, I think it is fair to acknowledge that it was thanks to the Socialist Party, which was able to unlock democracy. It is fair to acknowledge this because the political forces that did not participate in the Parliament of the Canary Islands today have the opportunity to assume, to participate, to join a framework of coexistence that is fundamental and important to us. We do not pretend to be our statute of autonomy - that is the error -; we want it to be the statute of all the canaries, not ours. We do not want to impose our model, we have never done it, nor are we going to do it today in this House. It is a matter of taking into account a text. What we want from a House like the one we are now, without absolute majority, is that there is that obligation to dialogue, that dialogue is imposed, that we have the capacity to listen to each other, that we have the capacity to know, beyond that demagogy and those headlines, beyond all that - which is very good for a newspaper owner but does not solve the problems of the citizens -, beyond all this, what is his proposal as a model for our community, what is the framework of coexistence for our community. Because those who are in it are not pursuing today that the Canary Islands Statute, which today has 65 articles, does not have the possibility to have 200 articles. That is what you are defending today, because what we are discussing today is not that you adopt a statute, but that you take it into consideration, so that, from that moment on, dialogue, conversation, that cooperation that we have to talk about among all will really open up. I am convinced that the more than 2 million canaries do not care much about this debate. I will flee from that phase of demagogy to speak on behalf of the 2 million canaries, but if there are many canaries who are not following this debate today it is primarily the responsibility of the political class and political groups. Because the socialists today are as we were in 1982 and 2007: we defend the same ideas, the same projects, the same vision of the Canary Islands - and I say: the same vision of the Canary Islands -. Let's see if it's so complicated in the Canary Islands to talk about the Canary Islands, is it so complicated to talk about that? Today, we have the opportunity to talk to the political forces, especially of Podemos and Citizens, of the Canary Islands; to know what is the project that defends each one. We've always defended him. We are the only party in this Spanish democracy that voted yes to the Constitution, so I ask no one to set an example of constitutionality. We are the only political force in this House that voted yes to the Constitution. We have voted yes to all the statutes of autonomy, to all; also to reforms. We have all voted yes, because what we want is to share it; because we believe deeply in the autonomous state. And do you know why we believe in the autonomous state? Because our autonomous state has been the most important instrument for consolidating the welfare state. [[Applauds]] It has made it possible to develop rights such as education, health care and social services. Of course we want more skills! But it's not a competence problem, it's a resource problem! [[Applauds]] That's the problem, because they've been cutting, cutting and cutting in health care and education for the past five years, especially. That's why it's not a competence problem. Of course we want more skills, it would be good! But there is no community in Spain more unique than the Canary Islands. Of course we have to take on more skills. It is that we are the only community that has express recognition in the European Union, the only one. Therefore, of course we want to be like the second generation statutes. We were already defending it in 2007 and 2002. Of course I do. I rise today to this rostrum - and before I have made it companions like Manolo Fajardo, Nestor Padrón, Jerónimo Saavedra, Juan Fernando López Aguilar, María Dolores Pelayo or, among others, Pepe Segura - for what? To defend a common project that we want to share with the whole of Canarian society. We do not want to impose our model, we do not want to impose it. That is why we are defending this status which is good for the Canary Islands. It is certainly good for the Canary Islands, and it would be good if we all joined that debate and dialogue. Because, what's the alternative, go back to 1982? Only in order to reform the electoral system of the Canary Islands, for that reason alone, must we reform the Statute of Autonomy of the Canary Islands, even if only for that reason. Of course we're denouncing the current system! If that current system were to be applied in this Congress, all nationalist political forces, including the confluences of Podemos, would have no representation in this Congress. It is not democratic rationality that the third political force in votes should be the first in seats. Of course, it's hard for people to understand these things, and they can explain it. We want to change those things and we want to change them in the statute, because there is no electoral law in the Canary Islands. It is only in the statute, and it is through the statute that we have to change, fundamentally, the electoral barriers. We did it in 1982 and we did it in 1996; we supported the 1996 reform even though we did not agree with the electoral ceilings. I remember that with regard to electoral tops, an amendment by the People's Party and the Canary Coalition raised the tops from 20% to 30% and from 5% to 15%; the same amendment they tabled, precisely, in 2007. They raised the electoral ceilings in a shameful way. Do you know what our model of the electoral system is? - We've proposed it more than once. I don't know the rest of the models. That's right, the demagogy and those things that I use many times from this rostrum do know them, but we don't have the concreteness of what that model is. We are here saying clearly that it is not the statute we would have preferred. Now, we are convinced that this is the status we can share with other political forces. I really hope that what will happen from now on is that the statute will be taken into consideration, because there will be enough votes for that to happen; I really hope that the 2007 experience will not come back to life; I really hope that the political forces that took the decision in 2007 to withdraw this statute, very similar to what we are discussing today, the People's Party and the Canary Coalition, will not dare to do the same when we start the period of presentation. I hope that is not the case for political dignity. Because it prevailed more on that occasion to shield the canary electoral system than our economic and fiscal regime. The partisan and power tactics of some political forces prevailed more than the one that the Canary Islands had more competence and that it was today equated with the second generation statutes, which is the aspiration we have as a people. That is why we will vote that yes, so that we can discuss, so that citizens who have no representation in the Parliament of the Canary Islands can discuss and contribute their Canary Islands project in this Parliament, so that we can contribute their project. That is why we will vote that yes and it would be essential for the People's Party to assume the responsibility that it has to influence this policy in the Canary Islands - also in Spain - in order to try to move forward and achieve that it is the status of the majority of the Canary Islands, of the majority of the Canary Islands. He said before that we have voted yes to all the statutes of autonomy in Spain and all the reforms. What more reason than that for continuing to bet on the autonomous state in this country, which has brought so good to our citizens? That's why we're going to keep betting on him. I want to end my speech with a few words, because I want to quote a colleague from the Canary Islands, the first president of our autonomous community, because what he said more than twenty years ago has a lot to do with what is happening in the Canary Islands policy. Sometimes I find it difficult to understand and believe that it is so difficult to speak in Canary Islands, that this is so difficult for someone to understand that one can't build a region from one island to another; one can't build a region from distrust, it's not possible to build Canary Islands like this. We have always, always, believed that the Canary Islands is possible. We have always defended it, in La Palma, in Lanzarote, in Fuerteventura, in Tenerife, in Gran Canaria, in El Hierro or in La Gomera, always, with the same vision of Canarias, with the same projects, with the same ideas, with the same values and we will continue to defend it in the future, that nobody has any doubts. Madam President, I will end the words with which he began the leader of my party in the Canary Islands, Jerónimo Saavedra, in his first investiture debate as president of the Government of the Canary Islands and which express what must be a vision of the Canary Islands. It says so: I have always believed that the Canary Islands is possible, that solidarity is therefore not a hollow word, but that it must be the daily, permanent exercise of one canary towards another, of our islands among themselves. Because Canary Islands is possible among all with much permanent exercise of balance, understanding, sensitivity, imagination and effort. Ladies and gentlemen, this very vision that Jerónimo Saavedra had twenty years ago is the same as that of the canarian socialists today. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u25	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Matos Mascareño has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech, as the other speakers have already done, welcoming and welcoming the representatives of the Government and Parliament of the Canary Islands: its President, Fernando Clavijo; the President of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, Carolina Darias, and the rest of the members of the Government, the Bureau and Speakers of the Parliament. Allow me also to do so, particularly with my colleagues in political organization, Asier Antona, president of my party and my parliamentary group, and the deputies and senators who are accompanying him, and, of course, with the autonomous deputies who have defended this proposal today, José Miguel Ruano, Iñaki Álvaro Lavandera. Be welcome and I tell you that you know that you count with all our respect, our consideration and our affection. Mr Álvaro Lavandera, I would like to join the words, the recognition and the memory of the Socialist Juan Carlos Alemán, to which I am of course in addition. It would be unfair not to do so and I want it to appear in the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of the proposal to reform the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy. We are going to vote in favour, although this reform did not count on our participation or support in its proceedings in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. The statutes of autonomy are part of the constitutional bloc and, like the Constitution, a statute is not just any other rule, it is not a norm that affects only a collective of our society or an area of life of our citizens; the statutes of autonomy regulate and deal with the coexistence of citizens within their territory; they recognize and protect constitutional rights and freedoms and their particular way of governing themselves, of relating to institutions - some, such as island branches, which are different from those of the rest of the State - and also the way in which institutions relate to each other. A statute of autonomy, like a constitution, should not be a political project of a single political group, not even a single parliamentary majority; a statute of autonomy should be a common political project of all citizens and of the whole of society - or at least of the vast majority of society - where all citizens have and feel comfortable. Therefore, when drafting a statute of autonomy, or simply its reform, one must have the same spirit in which to address a constitutional reform; one must have the conviction of the need for reform; one must know in advance where it is going and must have completely internalized that the texts that shape the objectives that are necessarily proposed must be agreed; in short, predisposition to agreement on shared objectives and the existence of an unequivocal climate of consensus. And in the period during which this reform was processed in our Archipelago, it is not that there was a minimum climate of consensus between the majority political parties in Parliament or in the General Courts, that was absolutely the opposite: between 2011 and 2015, the political situation and the political climate were of a brutal confrontation between the Government of the Canary Islands and the Government of the nation, between the Canary Coalition and also the Socialist Party and the People's Party; a situation, an absolutely irresistible political climate. In May 2011, the People's Party had won the elections in the Canary Islands but without an absolute majority, and a pact between the Canary Coalition and the Socialist Party took over the presidency of the government of Paulino Rivero Baute; and Paulino Rivero, among the various possibilities he could choose to frame his political action, chose the confrontation. Among all possible models, he chose to become our particular Artur Mas. Not only did he try to prevent, obstruct and obstruct all of the reforms that made it possible for the Canary Islands, like the rest of Spain, to end the economic recession and the massive destruction of jobs and to return to growth and job creation, but he did not hesitate to call, from the Canary Islands Government itself, demonstrations and mobilizations against the Government of the nation, encouraged by its public television, and to continually announce lawsuits against the Government before the courts, including the United Nations. Like I said, it was an irresistible climate. And the moment chosen was also not wasted, because this statutory reform, as has already been recalled, was approved on March 25, 2015, that is, two months from electing a new Parliament - elections in which Coalition Canaria had already decided to replace Paulino Rivero and the Socialist Party had promoted the one who was a member of these Courts, Patricia Hernández, who is also among us - and only seven months after the Courts were dissolved compulsory and new elections were called. That is to say, Paulino Rivero decided that the Parliament of the Canary Islands should approve a reform of our Statute of Autonomy in which the new Parliament which was elected, a few weeks later, with other political leaders, other new political organizations and other Members, had nothing to do with the proposal and, that such reform should be dealt with by new General Courts with other majorities, other political organizations and other Members who had not participated in its drafting. Certainly, the decision of the moment is an insurmountable political decision. Following Fernando Clavijo's arrival as President of the Government, the position of the Government of the Canary Islands, also with the Socialist Party, has radically changed vis-à-vis the Government of the nation. Now dialogue is sought, understanding is sought, agreement is sought, consensus is ultimately sought. That consensus is what we have achieved in recent weeks, in the negotiations led by the People's Party of the Canary Islands with representatives of the Government of the Canary Islands and also with the Secretariat of State for Territorial Administration. Today, the statute that is presented has been based on agreements, on removing all the views that any of its rules could have of unconstitutionality, which has made it possible to reach an agreement for the consideration and that the other political groups can make whatever contributions they want. Madam Citizen's Spokesperson, the agreements reached with the Canary Coalition and the Government of the Canary Islands comply scrupulously with all the criteria of the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 31/2010, and I invite you to join in addressing all those issues that you see. I am not going to get into this because they have already talked about new competences, but I am going to talk about some interventions. The statute that will emerge from this House will have nothing unconstitutional, absolutely nothing unconstitutional. Secondly, when we talk here about health, education, waiting lists, we are not talking about the statute; that is a management problem, it is not a statutory problem. And as for talking about the islets and matching them to municipalities - in islets like Roca del Este, Roca del Oeste or Lobos -, I don't think you can have the capacity to make a municipality. Mr Franquis, you said that the Socialist Party is the only one who has voted for all the statutes. It is true, it has voted all the statutes and, in some of them, it has been wrong and it is the cause of many of the problems that we have. For us, the state of autonomy enshrined in the Constitution is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of the Constitution. The 1982 Statute was a magnificent statute. The Constitution is not only the rule that finally ends the dictatorship and enshrines the regime of political and social freedoms and rights comparable to the most advanced and just democracies in the world; the 1978 Constitution and the statutes of autonomy that are approved and developed by it establish a territorial system that we can be proud of. Is it better? Undoubtedly, but we can be proud, because it has brought about the period of greater political stability, social progress and economic growth in our history. It is difficult to find a country with such a fruitful period of forty years. I think that we have not yet sufficiently valued and recognized the political leaders elected by the citizens who coincided in the 1977 Constituent Legislature, nor have we done enough with the rapporteurs of the Constitution. I know that the majority of this House shares this last assessment and I also know and know that today they sit in their seats here and they do not think the same. We know that there are Members who think that Adolfo Suárez, Felipe González, Santiago Carrillo or the rapporteurs Manuel Fraga, Gabriel Cisneros, José Pedro Pérez-Llorca, Gregorio Peces-Barba, Jordi Sole Tura, Miquel Roca and even - yes, even - Dolores Ibarruri were mediocre politicians at the service of capital and followers of Francoism. And I know that we all know that there are Members who think that freedom and democracy have been brought by them. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. In front of them, those who to the transition, to our Constitution, to the statutes of autonomy we recognize them an essential value in our coexistence, in our social, political and economic progress, we must maintain or, if they want, regain the consensus of then. I encourage you to proceed with these statutory amendments so that we can adopt it in its day with the greatest possible support and consensus. I assure you that the People's Parliamentary Group is prepared to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u28	We continue with items II and III of the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Groups in the Congress, Socialist, Confederal of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, of Esquerra Republicana, Vasco PNV and Mixto, for the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, amending article 46.1; and the agreement for the direct and single reading of the above-mentioned initiative. I should like to inform you that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, they will be put to the vote without any previous debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u29	We turn next to point IV. No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on climate change. Mrs Bajo Prieto has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and for the defence of the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u30	Thank you, Madam President. On 30 November last year the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, announced at the Paris Summit his intention to draw up a climate change law, an announcement that was reiterated at the last Marrakech Summit by both the President of the Government and the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. The People's Group brings this non-legislative proposal for its debate in plenary because of the importance, significance and impact that this initiative will have on our economic, productive and development model. The will of all parliamentary groups to move this initiative forward was evident at the last session of the Climate Change Commission, and today it is again evident with the joint presentation of an amendment of consensus by the Socialist, United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, Compromís and Popular parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for this spirit of consensus, which has been applauded by all the sectors involved, to prevail once again in this debate and to support this initiative by the rest of the political forces present here. However, I would like to point out that I was somewhat surprised when I saw that the text of the consensus amendment, in which we have worked by the signatory groups, some parliamentary group has presented it as its own initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the right time to draft a law on climate change and energy transition because we have an international framework, the Paris Agreement, an agreement covering almost 99% of greenhouse gas emissions and which is legally binding. All countries have pledged to present our commitments to combat global warming and, most importantly, to implement policies and measures to implement them. And we have the European Union's agreement on climate and energy by 2030: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40%, achieving 26% in renewable energy consumption and 27% improvement in energy efficiency - which is now proposed to rise to 30% in a binding way - and the 15% target on electricity interconnections. And, at the national level, we have the Government's commitment to combating climate change. Spain has experience of an effective policy of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which aims to move forward in the transition to a low-emission development model. We have fulfilled the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol 2008-2012, we are on the path to meeting the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, which covers from 2013 to 2020, and we are working to have the appropriate framework that will allow us to develop low carbon and climate-resilient in the medium and long term within the framework of the Paris Agreement. And most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, the environment has been made an ally of our country's economic and social development; it has involved all sectors of the economy in the fight against climate change, which has contributed to the reduction of emissions in our country through the measures envisaged in the 2020 road map, which estimates reductions of more than 50 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020; a new low-emission development model has been promoted with initiatives such as the Climate Projects, the environmental drive plans, the carbon footprint registration, which have also promoted employment creation; progress has been made in environmental taxation and, in the fluorinated gases sector, emissions have been reduced by 6 million tonnes in 2015 and, for the first time, Spanish society feels involved in the fight against climate change through the 'One Million Commitments for Climate' campaign; great progress has been made, but we must consolidate the achievements that have been made in the last few years and move forward with the new challenges that mark Paris and the Community framework have already achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore at a crucial moment in positioning ourselves in the fight against climate change. We need to define a medium- and long-term framework to ensure an orderly transformation of our economy into a low-carbon economy, which is what Paris demands. Equally important is that the future law should establish the necessary coherence in the various fields of competition, since only such a rule can allow us to develop cross-cutting and sectoral measures, respecting the competence of each administration, which will facilitate us to meet the objectives of Spain before the European Union and the United Nations. It should not be forgotten that the reduction efforts in the diffuse sectors, which is one of the greatest challenges facing our country, affect sectors such as transport, housing, agriculture, waste, cities, as well as the entire industrial sector not included in emissions trading and other sectors that receive a strong impact from the effects of climate change, such as health, tourism or national security. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the climate change and energy transition law should be to facilitate Spain's compliance with its international and European commitments on climate change and energy, energy efficiency and renewable energy participation, while promoting the country's competitiveness, and to promote actions with greater capacity to achieve commitments at the lowest possible cost, so that energy and climate change policy will promote economic activity, competitiveness, employment and ensure the financial sustainability of energy systems. I am sure that the Government, for the drafting of the draft law, will put forward an open and participatory process, which will require concerted action by all ministerial departments, public administrations and other levels of regional and local government, which will also ensure the participation of relevant actors in the fight against climate change, such as the scientific community, academia, the business sector and NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a law that requires dialogue and commitment from all stakeholders, especially from all political groups, because it cannot and should not be an individualist or short-lived law. That is why I once again appeal to the commitment I know we all have in the fight against climate change to support this non-legislative proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u31	Thank you very much. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Miquel i Valentí, the Joint Parliamentary Group, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u32	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago, when this House ratified the Paris Agreement, in my speech I quoted the architect Norman Foster, and I did so because in a recent interview he said, being asked whether there was a possibility of reversing the global warming situation that our planet was experiencing, that what we could not afford was not to start trying; I thought that what we did here the other day was definitely starting to try and so I told the minister and the spokesman of the People's Party. Today you begin to try again and that is good; surely that is good, but I say - let me say so, ladies and gentlemen - with a certain scepticism, because the text that you bring to this House today is very similar to another text that you brought in 2012, in which you promised great measures to avoid global warming and to reduce CO2 emissions from Spain to the planet. That was the money, that's what they intended to do in 2012, but when you look at the fact, what you've done to this day, it really doesn't fit us. It seems to me that they are two different lines of discourse what you say and what you have done in this country with an absolute majority in this House. Since you brought this non-legislative proposal to this House in 2012 what you have done has been to approve the famous sun tax, which does not exactly facilitate the implementation of renewable energy and self-consumption in this country; what you have done since 2012 has been to delay the implementation of European directives that seek energy efficiency in companies and private companies in this country; what you have done since 2012 to this day has been to use taxes that should be dedicated to improving energy efficiency and combating climate change to spend on other things, as is the case with the fluorinated gas tax. That's what you've done, that's the fact from 2012 to today. That is why we are looking at it with a certain scepticism and we ask you - in that sense we are making our amendments - that if you do not want to work to improve the climate change situation on the planet, at least let those administrations that not only say they do, but do things, as is the case with the Generalitat de Catalunya. I would therefore ask the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party to accept our amendments, because we believe it is important to let those who believe in the fight against climate change work as a real way of changing the situation and improving the planet. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u33	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u34	I will speak from the chair, Madam President, and almost in telegraph. Thank you very much. Firstly, I support the amendment to the Asturias Forum. Secondly, I declare our vote in favour of this initiative by the People's Group, which seeks to promote a law on energy transition and climate change, in the same way that the Navarro People's Union has already tabled in this House a non-legislative proposal in the Foreign Committee for the support of this House for the Paris agreement. I will refer to three express ideas in less than two minutes. The first is that we believe that the energy transition to a cleaner, more environment-friendly model and using cleaner sources of generation has no alternative, or at least no better alternative. We can argue, but I do not think that we would come to any other conclusion, because, in fact, climate change causes desertification and, therefore, problems with water and, therefore, hunger, conflict and war, and so we can enter into a loop that we should prevent. The second idea is that if we share the goals we should also try to share the strategies. We should try among all to reduce emissions, promote greater participation of renewables in the energy mix, increase efficiency at lower costs and take advantage of the moment and the need for this transition to favour an industry like the Spanish one, which has been a pioneer in the world and which is competitive and generating employment. The third and final idea is that we would be wrong if we labeled the generation technologies, if we thought there were some right-wing and some left-wing technologies. I think that would be a very serious mistake. We should not fill with ideological prejudice a debate that we can best do is to aim, rationalize and work together. I end up with a wish. Union of the Navarro People hopes that this is a matter - apart from others that can be agreed or in which we can reach agreements of state - in which in the end we can reach an agreement between all of us and we are proud of the representation we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u35	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on urgent matters affecting society as a whole, we must all go to one. Climate change is a global and survival challenge for our planet. In Compromís we have supported the amendment that has been tabled to the non-law proposal of the People's Group, because we want to demonstrate that the political forces as a whole are capable of achieving consensus and dialogue in order to have a common position. We will therefore vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal. However, we understand that this text is simply a requirement for the Government to proceed without further delay with a bill, and we believe that what is said in that non-legislative proposal is not enough, because in the face of the challenge of combating climate change we must do much more. The Spanish State must work towards a more ambitious proposal than the one currently marked by the European Union. We must meet the objectives set by the Paris Agreement and we must limit the global temperature of the planet to one and a half degrees. In addition, it is necessary to create a new productive model that is based on the impetus of an ecological transition with a particular emphasis on energy efficiency. We need to understand that energy efficiency and adaptation measures to climate change involve a commitment to the environment, sustainability and, in addition, they contain important employment sites and economic activation capacity. In addition, we must open up ourselves to the promotion of energy self-consumption and we should consider that it is being recognized as a more new generation right of citizenship. On the other hand, it is necessary to overcome the mistrust that so far, in this aspect and in many others, we are seeing that from the formations of the right is poured into the state of autonomy. It must be understood once that this is a complex State; it is not a State more autonomy, but a State of autonomy. It is an institutional framework which, in such a cross-cutting area as this, must act in a coordinated manner and, at the same time, each from their respective competences. In the case of the Valencian country, for example, we have the first Climate Change Council of the whole State, and some of the points referred to in this non-law proposal, for example on the circular economy of waste, we are already starting them from the Government of the Botanical. I would therefore like to insist that we do not see this proposal, which we support, as an attempt to re-centralize, but instead, to trust in all the institutional bodies of our State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u37	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to say that we have subscribed to the compromise that the majority of this House has accepted and that we therefore withdraw the amendment, because we believe that our proposals are reflected in this compromise that has reached a great deal of consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, stopping climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, perhaps one of the greatest challenges in its history. The threat is serious, pressing and grows as time passes without us doing anything to change this trend. The future of our planet and that of our country depends on a global commitment based on two premises: reducing greenhouse gases and keeping the global average temperature below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial period. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is happening, it is happening before our eyes, and even if we stop all emissions of greenhouse gases, those already thrown into the atmosphere are producing the extreme weather phenomena that we have been observing. We have seen this in recent days, with dire consequences, in the floods in Malaga. Increasing sea level threatens our coasts; droughts and desertification unite to ruin our agriculture; acidification of the oceans poses a threat to our fisheries sector. And these are just a few examples. Spain, our country, because of its geographical position within the Mediterranean basin, is one of the countries in Europe most exposed to the consequences of climate change. Our ecosystems and our economy, which is largely dependent on them, are at serious risk of irreversible and irreparable damage. Climate change compromises the health of our citizens, their prosperity and security and poses the greatest threat we face as a nation. Some autonomous communities have already advanced in climate change laws, but a community alone cannot cope with it, nor can a city council or a country. It is not a problem of size, of economic power or of armies; it cannot be faced in an individualized way a planetary problem that has its origin in human activity and in an economic development based on fossil fuels as a source of energy. To that end, we have signed the Paris Agreement, in order to give a comprehensive response, but we must also give a national response, without undermining the autonomy and competence of the various administrations. Global warming does not include administrative divisions, transfers, countries or autonomy. It is therefore necessary to have a regulatory framework that articulates, vertebrates, makes sense and gives economic support to the adaptation and mitigation policies that must necessarily be put in place. We need a law on climate change and energy transition; that is what Citizens understand, and that is what we have demanded and signed in the investment agreement we signed with the People's Party, specifically paragraph 19. It must be a law understood as the principle of what should be a new model of social and economic development, which bets on renewable energy, self-consumption and energy efficiency. Citizens are committed to this cause and this has been reflected in all the agreements they have signed both in the previous legislature, with the Socialist Party, and in this one. Spain, for its very high exposure and risk, must be a committed actor and one of the leaders within Europe in the fight against climate change. We must lead the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the promotion of clean energy, but to do so we must go the right way. It does not seem to be a good way for Spain to appear as the worst-located country in Europe in terms of the development of clean energy, according to the climate action index. Our country has dropped nothing more and nothing less than twelve seats, going from twenty-nine to forty-one last year. The reason for this is that support for renewable energy has been reversed. The countries leading these posts are Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden. Nor does it seem to be a good way for us to be the country in Europe that has increased CO2 emissions the most in the last 25 years, namely 18%, even increasing by 4% in 2015 compared to the general trend of the rest of Europe of a decrease of around 23%. Nor do they seem to be a good way to take measures such as the sun tax, which penalizes a clean and cheap energy in which we were international leaders and referents. We are the country of the sun and, however, in 2014, countries that are not characterized precisely because they are very sunny, like Germany and Great Britain, installed each of them more than 2,000 megawatts of photovoltaics in net, while in Spain we only install 7 megawatts, I repeat, 7 megawatts. Ladies and gentlemen, we need conviction, we need decision, we need courage, we need leadership, we need political will in the end. Are you willing to take on these challenges? Citizens are. We know what needs to be done, we know that appropriate rules and incentives need to be put in place to reduce CO2 emissions, generate new jobs and new businesses. The year 2015 has been the warmest for the earth since climate records began 136 years ago. The expected rise in temperatures in the coming years...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u39	Your Honor, you have to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u40	... with a special impact on southern Europe, it will have catastrophic consequences for our country. I will stop only in two examples. Tourism, which contributes 11% of our national GDP and 13% of employment, would be greatly affected by an increase in sea level, with a fall in the coastal strip, which receives 80% of the country's tourism and where 30% of our population resides. In addition, it would have decisive effects on health. The European Environment Agency collects 30,000 deaths from pollution in 2015. Pollution has generated expenses for different administrations of €35 billion. We can choose; future generations will not have this option. We must bet on a model of economy and society in which countries can grow and prosper without endangering the planet. It is a question of dissociating economic growth and energy production from the increase in CO2 emissions, and this requires a strong commitment to energy efficiency and renewable energy. We hope that the announced law on climate change and energy transition will be born out of a great consensus, that it will be courageous and manageable for all and that it will serve to ensure a better planet and a better future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u41	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have signed along with other political forces a compromise text which we believe should be the basis of this future law on energy transition and climate change, and we therefore withdraw our amendment. But I cannot resist the temptation to comment on the text, the initiative that the People's Party brings here today, full of beautiful words, of conventionalisms that undoubtedly respond to the political interest of not staying out of an irreversible direction that is already marking the Paris agreements. I must tell the Group of the European People's Party that they have lost a bit of their hand on the part of the car bomb; they must have very little shame or very little memory to literally write that Spain has taken ambitious goals in reducing emissions or that it has been at the forefront of the international fight against climate change. The only reason Spain has reduced its emissions has been the economic slowdown caused by the crisis. Emissions have increased again in 2015 and have done so by the power generation. Let me recall some of the measures adopted by the previous Government in the fight against climate change: end of aid for renewables, self-consumption decree, promotion of oil exploration in the Canary Islands and the Mediterranean, promotion of fracking and excessive, costly and unnecessary investments in gas infrastructure. None of these measures were justified economically, competitively or in terms of energy security, but only in the interests of energy companies. From this point on, we consider this law of energy transition and climate change more necessary than ever. And you know what? That the process of drafting this law is going to put everyone in their place and we will see how far their lordships are willing to bring to reality the declarations of intentions that we are hearing today. There are three issues that will be key to defining the usefulness and success of this law. The first is the objectives. You look forward to the objectives of the European Union and know as well as I do that you are insufficient to reach the Paris agreements. Our proposal is that these objectives be much more ambitious according to the potential and capacity that Spain has in renewables and efficiency. This, ladies and gentlemen, is climate leadership. Secondly, we will not allow them to use the green discourse of the energy transition to perpetuate the privileges of the old energy model, dirty, unjust, speculative and designed to protect the interests of oligopoly. We are not going to miss the transformative potential of the energy transition to build a new clean, just and democratic model in which energy is considered a right. The debate is no longer whether renewable yes or renewable no - this struggle has already been won by the ecologists - the debate is in the hands of who we put the renewables, whether in the hands of the people or in the hands of the oligopoly. Thirdly, taking the fight against climate change seriously means taking a deep and coherent approach to a transformation of the productive model. This includes a plan for industry, the great forgotten government, which does not even have a state secretariat, but also a plan for transport and mobility - which surely includes traffic restrictions in large cities such as Madrid - as well as for agriculture and waste management. This ambitious plan of investment, of transformation, of adaptation is far from the green makeup operation that they bring us here today. Society is fed up with politically correct institutional discourses, empty of content and proposals. We've seen him too many times and as a feminist and as an environmentalist I know what they're talking about. Put resources in the fight against climate change, show that they have the political will to change the direction of this country's energy and climate policy. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is already the greatest massive violation of history and is the greatest challenge facing humanity, but it is also a great opportunity to create employment, to relocate and rethink the economy just at a time when our economic system, based on unlimited growth, is unable to respond to the social and ecological challenges of the twenty-first century. Countries that understand this will take international leadership in a new geopolitics that is emerging from the fight against climate change. Those who use climate change as a lever of transformation will be able to tackle, deal with the consequences with much more solvency and with a lower social, economic and environmental cost. Ladies and gentlemen, ambition, leadership, climate justice, political will, resources, participation and a new clean, fair and democratic energy model with and for people. Without these keys, the law that proposes energy transition and climate change will be, simply and simply, wet paper. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u43	Thank you very much. Mr García Mira has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u44	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. [[Start your intervention in Galician]] Having said that, I am going into this matter and I am going to assess the many reasons why a climate change law is needed, a law that facilitates a change of model towards a more sustainable and less carbon-dependent society. Spain must make an energy transition that means leaving behind the burning of fossil fuels with a firm commitment to renewable energy consumption, in line with the global approaches contained in the Paris agreements recently endorsed in this House. It is therefore necessary to have a legal framework that favours the reduction of the high energy dependence of the outside world, that allows compliance with international emission reduction commitments, that facilitates the adoption of measures to adapt to climate change and to mitigate its impacts. In this, Spain needs today to seriously place itself in the commitment and responsibility to comply with the European emission reduction directives for the 2020, 2030 and 2050 horizons. As one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change, measures have hardly been put in place to adapt to an increasingly likely scenario, characterized by a significant loss of water resources, an increase in desertification and an increase in sea level, which requires a thorough analysis of the complexity of these scenarios and their impacts, implementing adaptation and mitigation measures. We therefore welcome the People's Party that until recently associated climate change - and, precisely in this aspect of sea level rise, in the words of its spokesman Mr Rafael Hernando - to a Mayan prophecy. Yes, we welcome this initiative in a context where no action has been taken to comply with the energy saving and efficiency directive or where the braking of renewable energy is as obvious as it is spectacular. Climate change and its impacts are one of the most important global challenges facing our society. Reducing these impacts is an objective for which it is necessary to design appropriate processes to identify, on the one hand, the most appropriate socio-economic paths and action programmes to mitigate the risk of our ecosystems, to identify policies and also the combination of policies, given the cross-cutting nature of climate issues, to implement, and to identify governance styles to manage and address vulnerability exposure. Climate change is a global problem that affects the economy, health, safety, management, access to water, construction, mobility or food, among others, as it results from changes in climate variables such as temperature, rainfall, sea level and the increase in the frequency or intensity of extreme weather events such as droughts, floods or heat waves that put people and ecosystems at risk. The Paris Agreement, which has been in force for the past month, involves the adoption of certain lines of action to guide the implementation of public emission reduction policies and policies to prevent appropriate strategies in the most vulnerable areas. The agreement also recognizes the importance of ensuring the integrity of ecosystems, oceans, the protection of biodiversity and climate justice, which we have had occasion to vehemently defend France at the Marrakesh Summit at the hands of Mrs Ségolène Royal. Three dimensions of the Paris Agreement are key. Firstly, education, training, awareness-raising and public participation, with public access to information and cooperation at all levels. Secondly, commitment at all levels of government to the various actors in accordance with national legislation. Finally, the need to explore and adopt sustainable lifestyles and consumption and production patterns. This horizon requires establishing a set of objectives to be achieved at national level within a comprehensive regulatory framework that will guide the actions and arrangements to be adopted. It is necessary to contribute to the awareness of the urgency of environmental change, and in that Spain must give a clear institutional response. We are aware of the difficulties of changing the economic model and of a system and a consistent lifestyle, but we have the responsibility and the duty to face this challenge with social and economic innovation projects that respond to climate change, through the facilitation and drive of sustainable economies. In conclusion, the Socialist Group joins in promoting a climate change law from this House, as it has already done from the Committee on Climate Change, in a context of unanimity with the proposal put forward and endorsed by most parties in this House, with a law that complies with international commitments, that promotes the implementation of greenhouse gas emission reduction policies in all sectors of the economy, that improves natural carbon retention with the development of capture techniques in CO2 sinks, that promotes a sustainable transport mobility policy and that ensures a system of public access information management. In short, a climate change law that promotes a green growth model, based on a model that considers growth as a fundamental model, but with an increased level of co-efficiency in our production and consumption systems. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u46	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking very briefly. The People's Group brings to the House a non-legislative proposal, with the aim of promoting an energy transition and climate change law with a number of conditions and considerations that this House will have to take into account. These conditions and considerations, in terms of both the preliminary and the operative parts, require, at least, a more detailed presentation of some assumptions that my group believes are not fully specified, particularly in the area of development and competition. However, the steps taken to raise awareness and generate active policies, which we have all taken in the field of climate change, are certainly important. With more or less ups and different sensitivities towards the problem, since the Kyoto summit we have gained not only awareness but also commitment. This is certainly a subject that concerns all of us. Rajendra Pachauri, an expert in climate change, said that at the moment science leaves no option for inaction. You're absolutely right, because you've come to this situation, or we're moving or there won't be a solution. Climate change is a global and therefore shared challenge, to which, among others, Euskadi, the country I represent, assumes its share of responsibility with a deep and efficient commitment. Already in 2002, the Basque Environmental Strategy for Sustainable Development 2002-2020 was adopted, which limited greenhouse gas emissions and increased sink capacity. The current and much more ambitious 2050 strategy initially sets a 2030 target of 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and a 2050 target of up to 80% reduction in emissions. In 2030, therefore, 40%, and in 2050, 80%. That is the challenge we have taken on since Euskadi. This new climate change strategy also responds to a demand from Basque society, of which 72 % considers environmental protection and the fight against pollution to be urgent and immediate issues. Euskadi has a low-carbon, climate-friendly competitive economy resulting from the consolidation of a knowledge-based climate change policy, which has made it possible to take advantage of the opportunities it offers for innovation and technological development. This has been possible thanks to something as important as the co-responsibility, the co-responsibility of all the agents of Basque society, driven by the exemplary action of the public administration that has taken action in all areas, although we are not going to develop them now, because, if not, we would have to extend this intervention and I have very little time left. I will quote some of them: betting on a low-carbon energy model, moving towards emission-free transport, increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of the resilience of the territory, increasing the resilience of the rural environment, increasing the resilience of the primary sector and reducing its emissions, reducing the generation of urban waste and anticipating risks, promoting innovation and committing the public administration to being responsible, exemplary and relevant to climate change. In view of what the People's Group is proposing to us today, we are concerned about some issues raised in this non-legislative proposal, even if the ultimate objectives are shared and ratified by all. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, what do you mean when you, on the second point of the operative part, ask for 'a single institutional framework that provides agility and coherence...'? The State has the capacity to lay the groundwork for basic laws, but the competence in this area must also be respected. With cooperation? Yeah. Coordinated? Maybe so, but with imposition, no. The speaker of the Socialist Group also sang a kind of song to the need for a single criterion, but here the hierarchies always seem to be central government and then there are the autonomys with a verticality in which there is a superior mother and the others are monks who obey what the one above says. Well, no. In this case, the area of competence lies with who it is, not only to execute, but also to decide. We can all be great at thinking that if we make the Commission permanent, as requested, we are doing more to fight climate change. It seems to us that the Commission should not be given a higher rank. There are already enough committees, subcommittees and subcommittees, and it seems that if we create these elements we do more. I think there's work to be done to commit more than enough. It requires effort, respect for competition and political and budgetary commitment. The rest are words. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u47	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Entering the subject that touches us, I confess that I rise to this rostrum with a certain discomfort. I am beginning to be a little perplexed, confused when I propose again, again, what we in the Commission unanimously approve, with an effort to reach a common agreement. All groups did so and were unanimously adopted. What should be done best not to repeat ourselves and delay decisions? The most normal thing would be for the non-law proposal on the subject before us, the Government, to refer a bill to this House no later than three months from now. Then the Climate Change Committee, once we decide that it is legislative - which I hope so - appoints a paper and to work. Well, that is not the case, and this leaves us puzzled at this constant going and coming from propositions that do not have a quick or clear response from the Government. The truth is, we're here to work. It is true what I say because much success among Members today does not have this non-legislative proposal, nor on the part of the proposing Members, which is quite interesting, which, I say again, I do not know if it is the usual parliamentary rule but it is strange. [[Rumors]] But, well, taking advantage of this situation, since we're here, on those issues that we've had a hard time agreeing... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u49	Your Honor, just a moment. [[Rumors]] One second.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u50	Few but chillions. As I was saying, as it has been difficult for us to negotiate, I will explain the points that we have not been able to agree on. With this law, which must be a basic law, we would have to pursue at least five objectives. First, to reduce both greenhouse gas emissions and the vulnerability of climate change impacts. That is true, but that is why the appropriate budget allocations must be allocated in an economic memory attached to the law; if there is no money, there are only good words and we have been on the subject for years. Secondly, to strengthen the different strategies and plans that are being developed and that have been developed, and in the Autonomous Communities, much progress has been made in this area. Thirdly, to promote and ensure coordination of all sectoral planning instruments related to climate change and coordination, which are not subordinate - there are people who confuse coordinating with subordinate - of the State, the autonomous communities and the municipalities, as well as the promotion and participation of citizens. Fourthly, promoting research and the implementation of new technologies, in which the university is key. And finally, to visualize all this with an active participation in the world, both in cooperation projects and in participation in global forums on climate change. It should be noted that competition over environmental protection is defined as a shared competence in which the Spanish State is responsible for determining the basic rules and this basic rules cannot have such an extension as to prevent the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Autonomous Communities from considering the establishment of their own policies in this field, and even less so if their powers are emptied of content. While it is true that changes are necessary and cross borders, it is no less true that it will only be possible to act effectively if we know who must do everything and at every moment and what responsibilities we must assume. Many of those who yesterday denied climate change have seen the light - it is true that very recently -. Now there are major resistances, we have arguments to contrast all kinds of doubts and convince, but what we don't have is time. Let's get to work. Environment and the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u51	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Bajo Prieto whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u52	I keep the one we have alive, the one we've agreed on all the groups. The others, no.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u53	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE DEROGATION OF WORK REFORM AND THE PREPARATION OF A NEW STATUS OF WORKERS. [[File number 162/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u54	We are now discussing the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the repeal of labour reform and the drafting of a new Workers' Statute. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative which I am presenting to you seeks to repeal the set of labour standards which the PP has unilaterally imposed over the past five years and which have led to the reduction of rights and the impoverishment, in our view, of the majority of Spanish workers. We intend to replace these rules with a new Workers' Statute, agreed in both the social and political spheres, which will regain rights, quality, stability and decent wages for employment in our country. This is the objective, to move from a precarious and unfair labour market to a more stable and fair one; to move from a weak and fragile economy to a stronger and more competitive economy, because the strongest and more competitive economies are not those that pull wages and precarious jobs, but those that invest in innovation, digitisation, training, modernisation, and those that take care of their workers as a fundamental asset to bring value to their products and services. We do not agree, ladies and gentlemen, with those who argue that the PP's labour reform failed, because it is not exactly so. The PP's labour reform has failed for those who demand good jobs for Spanish workers, for whom we will never accept a three-day or three-hour contract as a fair and acceptable job, for those who will never consider the €2.50 per room made as a fair and acceptable salary. But the reform of the PP has been successful for those who do not think so, for those who think differently; for those who defend a model of competitiveness based on precarious contracts, wage devaluation and the reduction of workers' rights; for these workers' reform has been a success. The authors, the beneficiaries of the PP's labour reform, in our view, took advantage of the crisis to turn our labour market around as a sock and to move from a regulated labour market to deregulation and the law of the strongest, which is always the law of the entrepreneur; from balance in power relations within the company to all power for the boss; from collective and guaranteed bargaining of working conditions to precarious negotiation of enterprise to enterprise, worker to worker; from more or less balanced distribution of income generated to abuse of business profits on labour incomes; from good jobs to precarious jobs; from wages worthy of wages not so worthy; from work as a guarantee of social integration and decent life to work that no longer protects poverty or social marginality. The PP celebrates the balance of labour reform every day, however, most workers every day suffer and regret the balance of labour reform. There are only four facts to explain why. Today we have 380,000 more long-term unemployed than five years ago; today we have 350,000 fewer full-time jobs than five years ago, today we have 6 million workers with wages below 650 euros, today we have a million fewer unemployed with public coverage than five years ago. This is the balance sheet of the labour reform of the PP for the majority of Spanish workers: more long-term unemployment, more precarious work, more job poverty. By the way, I would say to the Minister for Employment, if she were, that the best way to avoid irrational working hours is precisely by repealing the labour reform, because the labour reform was established precisely to facilitate employers to set in a unilateral way the working hours they wanted, with the hours they wanted and with the wages they wanted. [[Applauds]] May the minister explain her proposal for happy hours to the thousands of young people and less exploited with endless days and wages of misery, thanks precisely to her labor reform, which explains it to them. However, we want to make it clear that the Socialist Group does not seek to repeal all existing labour standards from a pen. We want to identify all the rules that have unjustly impoverished workers, replace them with a new and fair regulation by a social and political agreement to be reflected in a new Workers' Statute that recovers rights and guarantees good jobs. What are these most harmful aspects? They have them on their heads with certainty, the weakening of collective bargaining in favour of the unilateral power of the employer to set wages and working days; the prevalence of company agreements on sector agreements, which are increasingly guaranteed for workers' rights; the decausal of contracts and dismissals; false temporary contracts, false part-time contracts, false self-employed contracts, false fellows who facilitate labour exploitation; discrimination against subcontracted workers directly; the elimination of the unemployment benefit for unemployed persons over fifty-two years of age; and the reduction of unemployment coverage. This is what needs to be changed, this is what needs to be repealed, ladies and gentlemen. And why do we have to change it? For a new Workers' Statute strengthening collective bargaining in the establishment of wages and working conditions; simplifying the contract plant and ensuring that temporary contracts are for temporary jobs and part-time contracts are for part-time, non-fraud and non-exploitation jobs; progressively raising minimum wages; working for real equality between women and men; finally turning active employment policies into an effective tool to help young people and long-term unemployed find decent jobs; and recovering the allowance for over fifty-two years old, raising unemployment coverage as a whole from 54 % at present to at least 70 %, which was where we left it in 2011. This and more, what we agree is the fruit of social and political dialogue. I would like to thank the other groups for their amendments in these final seconds. We are going to accept the precision that makes us in its first amendment. We can save what needs to be saved when it comes to reconciling labour reform. We have incorporated into a transactional amendment interesting arguments from Citizens regarding the implementation of European judgments, some interesting arguments also from Mr Campuzano on improving resources for active employment policies, a transaction that I hope you will agree with from the House. We in the People's Party cannot accept its amendment because it runs contrary to the intention of this initiative. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. If the X Legislature was the legislature of labour reform for job insecurity, we want this new legislature to be the legislature of the new Workers' Statute for good jobs and decent wages. This and not another is the purpose of this initiative for which I ask your support. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u56	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mr Campuzano i Canades spoke first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Simancas, my group is grateful to you for your attitude in negotiating the amendments, but we cannot support them today. Nor will we reject his initiative. It seems to us that the employment challenge in this legislature, rather than in the area of repeal, is the challenge of being able to build new labour relations adapted to the new economy, adapted to the profound changes that globalisation is causing in our productive system and that it is going to provoke with greater intensity in the coming times, adapted to the changes that are causing and that are going to provoke in the future technological disruptions and in a society and in an economy that has been unable to achieve full employment in the last 40 years and that when we look at the objectives of this legislature we consider that it is a success to achieve unemployment of 12%. In addition, it has been a legislature in which the demand for quality employment has appeared with great force. It means that employment is able to dignify people, that it gives them personal autonomy and that it allows them to live with their wages, but that employment also helps the competitiveness of our companies. These are the challenges we have and those challenges we have cannot be addressed from the nostalgia of pre-2008 regulations before the crisis. The challenge we have and which the Socialist Party has in particular is to offer a proposal that is able to answer these questions without being anchored in this nostalgia of the past and not to be overwhelmed by those who from their left seek to anchor them in rules that can no longer work in the times we live today. There the position of the members of the Catalan Democratic Party is going to be a purposeful action as we have always practiced in this House, also reaching agreements with you in difficult times in this matter, convinced that what we need are modern rules for a time that has changed, not to settle in the nostalgia of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u58	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u59	Eskerrik asko president andrea. Get out of the way. We rise again to this rostrum to say that no to the labour reform carried out by the People's Party Government, but also to say that no to the previous labour reform carried out by the Government in that case or at that time by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party because always, and we could look even further back and see all the labour reforms that have taken place in the Spanish State, what we have found has been more job instability, more precariousness and worse conditions in the workplace. That has been the focus since the workers' labour reforms began. But the last labor reform at least teaches us three aspects: the first is that one can have employment and be poor of solemnity, that one can chronify poverty, that one can condemn the life imprisonment of poverty to millions and millions of people, doing the work compatible with the need to have social aid in order to have a life even minimally dignified; the second is that women are again expelled from the labour market or relegated to the worst-class jobs in order to speed up the labour market again on the basis of the exclusion of a sector that fights with justice for their equal rights; and the third is that it condemns young people to exile or semi-slavity or directly to slavery. We are told that it has created jobs, but what kind of jobs should be said? If out of every decent job three unworthy jobs are generated, statistics grow, but misery multiplyes. And we, by saying all this, are going to point out that we will support the proposal, but we also make it clear that we do not think that the solution comes through the generation of a new status of the worker. We believe that there are autonomous spaces of struggle, that the Basque framework of labor relations is a magnificent autonomous space of class struggle, because precisely, in view of the needs that the IMF promotes when it says it recommends another labor reform that makes indefinite contracts attractive to the entrepreneur, greater legal certainty to companies in dismissal and greater flexibility in working conditions, we want to continue to demand thirty-five hours, social clauses and decent working conditions for the Basques.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u60	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Almost five years after the adoption of the labour reform, one wonders whether it has really been useful to anyone. For the country? For the workers? The People's Party always talks and takes heart from job creation, well understood that for them a job can be six hours a week or two days a week, and for that they have the statistics, which are sometimes so ductious and so malleable. To be fair, it would be necessary to compare these job creation figures with those which I understand are much more reliable, the total number of hours worked. And here cotton does not deceive, the total hours worked are significantly lower than the hours worked when the labour reform was approved, as the figures of the National Institute of Statistics show. A second marker that does not lie is the collection of Social Security. It has continued to fall inexorably and speedily year after year. According to the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, more than 15 billion people have stopped entering between 2012 and 2015, and the pension box reflects it in a very clear, clear way. In 2016 alone, the government withdrew $19 billion. Of the 66 billion found, 15 billion left now. And finally, we would still have a third indicator, the emergence of so-called poor workers, the number of poor workers has not stopped increasing. Therefore, although the president and the minister try to breastfeed with job creation, the figures are blunt and do not deceive. There are people employed, yes, but their jobs are of poorer quality, part-time, with lower wages, which explains their repeated withdrawals from the pension fund and the emergence of the phenomenon of poor workers. Its labour reform has therefore not served the interests of the country or the interests of its citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2012 a friend who has now become a renowned political commentator and also a very good professor, Pablo Simon, wrote an article that symbolizes and explains very well what labor relations have been like in this country over the past thirty years. The article was called The Terrace. On the terrace were the storms, the young mostly, many women, also older than forty-five years, suffering from the weather of the crisis, the snow, the cold, and looking inside and there, in the shelter of the home, near the fire, were those few who had been lucky enough to get an indefinite contract. In addition to the massive structural unemployment we have suffered in this country for decades, the elephant in the room of the problems of our labour market is what we know as duality. Those on the terrace are poor workers who have contracts that start on Monday and end on Friday, they are workers in which no one invests to improve their human capital, they are workers who do not accumulate rights for unemployment or retirement, they are workers who cannot make fundamental decisions like having children, they are workers who, in short, have no alternative but to continue living on the terrace. Mr Simancas, allow me to give you one thing, and it is that you really are a very good diagnostician, especially of the problems of others, because it is true that you, following your judgement, made a labor reform before that of the People's Party, in which you also cut some rights. Or is it that removing force from collective bargaining or reducing compensation is bad when it is done by the People's Party and good when it is done by the Socialist Party? He is a good diagnostician, Mr Simancas, because he explains very well that it is very cold on the terrace, that it is very bad out there, but I have not yet heard any mechanism, no new idea to allow those who are out, in the weather, to access the stability, the warmth of the house that offers a permanent contract. [[Applauds]] The problem of duality, Mr Simancas, no matter how much you want to earn points with Podemos' unions or voters, is not a problem that comes from yesterday. Let me tell you clearly. Since 1984, when the Socialist Party implemented the temporary contracts, temporality has been essentially the way of fundamental adjustment of the Spanish economy. When the crises came, the storms were thrown into the streets massively - we have experienced it very clearly in recent times - and when the time comes for recovery the precarious people are being reintroduced into the labour market. Today, nine out of ten contracts are temporary precarious. [[Shows two documents reading '18 % average unemployment rate', one with the logo of the People's Party and the other with the Socialist Party]] Don't be surprised, these are the unemployment data of the People's Party and the average Socialist Party in the years they have been in government. [[Applauds]] I don't know what the derogation is for because if it's to go back to the previous Zapatero model with 20% or 25% unemployment, it's probably not the solution. Honestly, I think there are much better models that you could look at and that are also close to your party, or is it that Renzi, for example, is also a neocon of the Ibex when he defends the single contract in Italy to end the discrimination of the temporary ones? Or is it that Macron is a capitalist oppressor when he proposes a salary supplement for the most vulnerable families exactly with the same design that Citizens propose? The problems of those on the terrace, Mr Simancas, are solved by reducing the entry barriers to the house, not by increasing them, as you propose, so that those outside can access the heat of the house. The good news is that the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union open a window of opportunity to put an end to the unfair discrimination suffered by temporary workers. The sentences say so very clearly. Leo: The mere nature of the temporary contract cannot be an objective reason to justify unequal treatment. In other words, two people who have the same job cannot have different rights because they have a different contract. Europe tells us that. It does not say Citizens, it says Europe also now. Now that Minister Báñez has decided to incorporate the reformist ideas of Citizens and some of their policies, such as active policies towards profiling and orientation, such as the questions of the Austrian backpack, the salary supplement for young people, the rationalization of schedules or the extension of paternity permits, it would be great if Citizens' ideas regarding the single contract were also incorporated. It is clear that the single contract is not going to solve all the problems. We have to invest in education, we have to invest in innovation, we have to transform the productive model. Otherwise, we will continue to be a disaster on unemployment issues. But in the meantime we can do a lot, Mr.Simoncas, and I did not see that way, to offer an entrance to the house to those who have stayed out. In this line of looking to the future and not to the past we have proposed an amendment that is probably not going to be incorporated in its entirety and therefore we cannot vote in favour of its proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u64	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u65	Good afternoon, president, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. It said a great leader of the 20th century that we came here, to politics, to talk about life. Today we talk about life, we talk about the working conditions of the men and women of this country. Of course, of life, of their rights, of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, although we do not accept the totality of our amendments, we are going to support this initiative, precisely because we understand that at least we will contribute to combating part of the evil that has been caused in our country. But if I may, we have to point out or we have to remember... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u66	One second, Mrs. Díaz. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet, please. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u67	But if I may, we have to remember and make a slight review of the history of our labour law. Mr. Simancas, we can't suffer from amnesia, let alone make us believe or suffer from that amnesia. We could talk about each and every one of the labor reforms with which you, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, a total of fifty-two in thirty-one years, have ended with the labor law of our workers. We could remember 1984. Do you remember, with Felipe González, when he incorporated the decausalization of temporary contracts? Since then our labour market has been dual and since then both have been genuine Talibans of precariousness. [[Applauds]] Very quickly. In 1984, 1992, 1994, the legalization of ETTs, of placement agencies, a million cuts, of reforms that always struck the working class of our country. Both have always lied to all the workers in this country, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have lied to us and have made reforms under a false premise. They told us that they were doing these reforms to create employment, and you know, like all of us, that employment cannot be created from the labour institutions. Only from the productive economy can we change the living conditions of the workers of our country. This is precisely what we would have liked, that instead of the history of fifty-two labor reforms would have brought us here fifty-two reforms of the productive model of our country to be able to have quality employment, real economy and decent life for the workers of our people. [[Applauds]] We can state quite clearly that you, especially the People's Party, seem to be defending the Bangladesh model or the Eurovegas model. Of course it is, we affirm it with roundness. And we go back to the false premise. They were telling us, and at last we were able to get to see the truth - as Minister Báñez, the great absent woman today, has just said, she is very interested in the debate - who were doing the job reforms of 2010 and 2012 to create jobs. I recommend you read a report, the balance sheet of the Banco de España in the first quarter. Here the Bank of Spain tells us loud and clear that the labour reform of the People's Party was not made to create employment but to devalue wages, which was made to lower wages to the working classes of our country. Finally Mrs. Báñez managed to make this great truth real to us. We need to talk about what is happening in the labour market, what are its characteristics, very quickly. It is an insufficient market, it is an exclusive market; it excludes almost 50% of young people, it excludes women, it excludes those over 45 years of age. It is a precarious market; 92 % of contracts are temporary. It is also a market in which the large average of companies are SMEs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, how can you tell us about contracts, about company agreements in this business structure? It is an absolutely ageing labour market, masculinized and with this and about this it is about what we have to change the reality of our people. The worst is that in this context the People's Party came and ended each and every one of our rights. We could say, as is said in the labour law itself, that the so-called tuitive nature of labour law has disappeared. For the men and women of the People's Party, after the last labor reform, an employer is the same as a worker and you know, like me, that there is nothing more unfair to do than those who are radically unequal. [[Applauds]] That is why we, the men and women of the People's Party, also of the Socialist Party and also of Citizens - the constitutionalists - ask you a question. Where's the social state? Where is the frontispiece of article 1.1 of the Spanish Constitution? Are you talking about this which is spoken of in the jus of liberalism, which is precisely the post-social state? Are they actually defending the disappearance of labour law and becoming part of a small amalgam of the economy? We say no and moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have laminated our rights, they have ended the class unions. They're very critical of Esperanza Aguirre, but they always go after her. Esperanza Aguirre said: Trade unions will fall just as the Berlin wall fell. And she continued: This is exactly the goal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party. This is the hidden truth of the reform of the People's Party, together with the demolition of each and every one of our rights: articles 39, 40 and 41 of the Workers' Statute. They can do with us exactly what they want. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u68	Mrs. Díaz, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u69	And we say that we refuse, that we are going to defend the working class here, in the Chamber, but also on the street because rights are fought, fought and conquered here - I insist - but also outside this institution. [[Applauds]] We don't want half rights, we want decent life and a decent working class. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Camps Devesa has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, making a small part of the story, we finished the last parliamentary term - which is known as the short term - with a debate on the repeal of the 2010 and 2012 labour reforms, in that case at the request of the Podemos Group. We practically started this legislature with a similar debate, in this case only the repeal of the 2012 reform. Then and now it seems to me more like a debate on the political primacy of the left - of the opposition of the left, in fact - than on the actions to be carried out. That is why, then and now it has been put and put more emphasis on repeal than on construction. It seems that I am more of an opposition or more of a left, the more I ask to repeal the laws made earlier. We can ask to repeal two labor reforms, the one of 2010 and the one of 2012; you socialists, just the one that you did not, obviously. It seems that it does not matter the results, only who did it; if it did it the People's Party is a mistake. Have you not thought, ladies, for a moment that in something - not in everything but in something - we could be right? We can all be wrong and no one is right in everything, but pretending the opposite is the same as believing that we are in possession of absolute truth, which is a risk to democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, your proposal did not include an alternative, it is political - let me say - of burned land. Whether we return immediately to the legislation of 2010 or 1980 is not the solution; no doubt not. You should leave the competition between you because you seem more or less left-wing and you should think more about the Spanish unemployed because, ladies and gentlemen, the real debate, the fundamental issue - in the words of Mr Campuzano whom I like to quote so many times - is how we make compatible the tuitive role of labour law with the ability of our companies to compete in the global economy or, what is the same, to end duality in our labour market, with volatility in employment, with the absence of flexibility and competitiveness, endemic and permanent features in the poor historical functioning of our labour market, which, together with rigid legislation, has always pushed us to adjust the labour cost through redundancies in times of crisis, rather than turning redundancies into the last possible option. [[Applauds]] This is well known to the proposing group, which, in view of the need to change reality, suffers - as the spokesman for the Podemos Group said very well - a kind of temporary, selective and collective amnesia. You do not remember anything before 2011, you do not remember that by governing you unemployment rose from 9% to 24%, you do not remember that the increase in inequality in our country is mainly due to the massive destruction of employment between 2008 and 2011, you do not remember that the poverty rate increased especially in our country in those years and is already falling today. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't remember or you don't want to remember. We do not ask them to give up the outcome of their policies, as I believe everyone else does, some are right and others are ironing. They denied a crisis that existed - it's true -, they took action late - also -, look, they did a job reform in 2010 and still destroyed 1,400 jobs daily in 2011. You come into contradiction with yourself, it is your own actions that clearly show that action in all or in part appropriate may or may not have immediate positive consequences. But they do not intend to charge the negative results of their policies to those who have turned the situation around. You twist the numbers and statistics to unsuspected limits without any flushing. They say the 2012 reform balance is desolating. So how would you define the employment situation in Spain that you left in 2011? Membership in social security had previously fallen at a rate of 2% and is now growing at a rate of 3.4%. Today there are 632,536 registered unemployed fewer than in December 2011. Unemployment increased to 12.4% in 2011 and is now falling at a rate of 10.9%. The percentage of indefinite workers is 74%, 6 points more than at the beginning of the crisis, and they do not want to be a category of what is not, only 0.87% - listen well, ladies and gentlemen - of the employed have a job of less than a month. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreements have an effect on the same workers, practically 10,300,000 compared to 10,600,000 who did so at the time of the labour reform. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer necessary to grow above 2.5% to create employment and, for the first time, Spain has created indefinite employment since almost the beginning of the recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, repealing labour reform is repealing job creation, it is nullifying the framework of labour relations which has allowed Spain to move from generating half of Europe's unemployment to creating half of the euro area's employment. Labour reform works, and it does so thanks to everyone's effort and work. Whoever wants to change it says exactly what it wants and proves that the alternative is better. It's not worth any change. Let us stop demagogies and traps and bet on the real and the effective, on the Spanish and on our future. Ladies and gentlemen, there is more stable and high-quality employment in Spain today, but we know that it is not all done, there is a long way to go, because there are still many Spaniards who want to work and cannot. We must send them a message of hope and trust. No one can stay out of recovery and this has to reach all families. For this reason, I announce my group's negative vote on this proposal ending, if the president allows me, with a quote, which says: I must not depart from the real path, even if it has been traveled frequently, because I do not despise the truth because it is old known to many and I am seduced by misleading news, whatever the appeal of its youthful freshness. I prefer to ride the thick mule of good sense than the pure blood of unbridled imagination. Claudio Sánchez-Albornoz, President of the Republic in exile, Prince of Asturias Prize in Democracy, from the preamble to his book Spain, a historical enigma. Ladies and gentlemen, I advise you to read it. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u72	Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simancas, you know that this was not the GNP we expected, this was not the proposal we believe should have presented a party like the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. You also know - you know - that at the time labor reform was one of the main reasons for opposition or divergence of my group, the Basque Group, with the People's Party, despite the beneficial consequences that the Minister of Employment, as she told us, seemed as triumphant as surrealists at the end. I would also like to remind you that there has not been one but two labour reforms; one, in 2012, of the People's Party and one, in 2011, of the party in which you are a militant, Mr Simancas. In any case, we would not be talking about the need for labour reform if it were not a consequence of warning about its effects. On this issue, Mr Simancas, I must point out that, in our view, the main cause of the failure of all labour reforms is the decausalization of the employment contract. In our view, other effects would be the lack of cause of the employment contract, the blurring of the causes of dismissal, their compensation and also, on the same path, the deregulation of collective bargaining. To that extent, it is necessary to have such a reform, which is sufficient to check today that it is almost irrelevant to conclude an employment contract that is well-defined, temporary, formative or a scholarship because the difference is not in the cause of the contract or in the content of the functions to be performed; the difference - and it is sad - today lies only in compensation because when it is materially extinguished it does not need to allude to a cause of dismissal because neither is the contract causal. We therefore understand that his proposal would have been required, that is, we would have preferred, a content that would have promoted concrete measures on which we could have some sort of position, for example, on the need to achieve the causes of termination of work above those currently recognized or on respect for the principle of equality in compensation or on the promotion of efficiency in collective bargaining and the effectiveness of ultraactivity beyond the current year. We should also be able to position ourselves on other measures relating to youth employment, contracts in practice, the treatment of self-employed or self-employed workers, i.e. many others. Other measures that concern us - and you know it - are those relating to the competition order. We would like labour law to be amended to recognise the possibility of an own labour framework in Euskadi and the transfer of competences which we continue to demand to be carried out and which, as we point out, is still pending since the Statute of Gernika. However, the current proposal makes no reference to any of these issues. We understand, on the contrary, that it is a non-legislative proposal that seeks to boost the executive's action in a certain direction, and it should therefore be a useful tool in the sense of pointing out concrete measures which they propose to adopt. However, we are ready to work together along this path and also to work towards the repeal of many of the effects of labour reform through solvent proposals, widely agreed and negotiated with the social partners and, in addition, aimed at recovering guarantees that should never have disappeared from the regulation of the labour contract. We will not be willing to cooperate, on the other hand, with those who are covered by unilaterality or supported by models that try to give apparent and superficial solutions to complex problems such as - I'm sorry, we think so - the one-time contract or the one of flexicurity without legal certainty or other similar ones. I therefore urge you simply to refine your initiative and to implement some of the measures associated with this repeal of labour reform transformed into concrete proposals as an alternative. To that end, I am sure that we will be able to agree on many of them on that path. We understand and share that there must be criticism of government action in the area of labour legislation leading to a call for a change in some legislative decisions taken in the heat of an absolute majority that no longer exists today. We also share the view that it is necessary to promote the amendment of the Workers' Statute both in the facets mentioned and in others that certainly debate and exchange of views can be seen. But, we repeat, they must not be inconcrete or unrealizable. They must be neither generic nor regressive and neither can nor should they be opportunistic because they would be demagogic, must provide solutions and alternatives. However, we understand his intention, understand his purpose and agree with him. That is why we will turn our position to critical support, but I support the initiative presented because, for its part, we do not want to imagine that non-support can be interpreted as support for other initiatives with which we already disagree much more seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u75	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The Socialist Group brings us a proposal for a law to repeal the labour reform and to draw up a new Workers' Statute. We started with the second petition, a new Workers' Statute. It is correct as long as the two labour reforms have been repealed, which the Socialist Party did at the time and the reform of the People's Party, which has undoubtedly been the hardest blow to workers' labour rights in the last thirty years. And why do we ask for the derogation that some do not understand and think is to go back to the past? For two reasons. Firstly, because it is the fastest way for working classes to recover lost labour rights. Secondly, because at the same time it is better negotiating conditions during the process of drawing up a new Workers' Statute, which may be lengthy. Having said that, we will support the request to repeal the labour reform of the People's Party for many reasons, including the following. First because it is possible, it was in the electoral programs of different parties that today we can set up an alternative in socio-laboral politics if we are faithful to our voters. The People's Party can be left alone again with its citizens' acolytes. Secondly, because while it is true that the reform is applauded by the leaders of certain institutions, particularly the International Monetary Fund, which is still calling for more blood, the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which we know as the troika, it is also true that there is no honest economist who does not claim that the root causes of the 2008 crisis were neither the labour market nor the labour legislation. Therefore, the reasons why the first law and successive laws were not intended to attack the real causes of the crisis are purely ideological, purely neoliberal reasons, let us not deceive ourselves. It was chosen to rescue the banks and not to attack the real causes of the crisis: the greed of the financial system and a primarily speculative productive model. So what was attacked were the social and labour rights of the weakest with reforms imposed without any social dialogue. In fact, the workers' organizations made two general strikes and hundreds of demonstrations to which they listened deafly. You have never intended dialogue or enhanced collective bargaining or flexicurity that you say. It was intended to give employers tools to enforce the law of either you take it or you leave it. The law looks around you at the unemployment and the resumes I have. This was his purpose. In fact, the first two years of her labor reform, as the minister acknowledged the other day, continued to destroy occupation because the companies took advantage of the gift of legislation as beneficial to their interests as this labor reform to renew their staff by firing those less docile, less useful for their age, for their training or for their health that are the long-term unemployed that we have today. Nor has the reform brought about a substantial rise in occupation. It continues in unacceptable unemployment rates, 19.2%, which make the Kingdom of Spain five years after the People's Party government, five years later, an unemployed European sub-champion. Greece has only more unemployment at 23.4%. Here's the data. In other words, of the 16 million unemployed in the European Union, 4 million are citizens of the Spanish state. The Kingdom of Spain is also leading ranquins in youth unemployment, in flight of talent from highly valued young people in countries such as Canada or Germany and in high-value-added economies. Nor is there any increase in productivity and the test lies in the multiple social security subsidies that the Government has had to do to help businesses in the form of all kinds of bonuses. The competitiveness of enterprises and the slight increase in occupation are again linked to low wages and precariousness. Bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. The reforms have brought us wage devaluation; wages are estimated to have fallen by more than 30% compared to the pre-crisis stage. The so-called poor workers have increased; more than 13% of workers are in poverty and in danger of exclusion, despite having jobs. With other figures, wages now account for only 47.2% of GDP; that is, in relation to the wealth that each year is capable of generating the Spanish economy since the beginning of the crisis, wage incomes have lost 2.8 points of GDP, about EUR 28 billion. On the contrary, business profits have earned 0.9 points, about €9 billion. In other words, the reform has only brought down the economy of workers while at the same time strangling their possibilities for consumption. It must also be repealed because, apart from lowering wages, it has given the kingdom of Spain another sub-championate, that of being the second-largest European state with the highest rate of temporality, behind Poland - I am referring to that of central Europe -.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u76	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u77	Yeah, I'm done. The wage gap between men and women also continues. I could keep the list, which is endless, but they make me finish. I could also make a lot of arguments, but I think it is clear from what I have said. As we build our republic, during and after, we will always fight for a framework of labor relations much fairer than this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u78	I ask Mr Simancas Simancas whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u79	We're preparing a transactional that we're handing over to the lawyer in a few seconds. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u80	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the future of toll freeways. And, following the debate on this motion, we will include the debate on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the statutes of the Asian Bank for Infrastructure Investment, which was held in Beijing on 29 June 2015. I have the floor to defend the motion following an inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the future of motorways, Mrs Jordà i Roura.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u82	Very nice late. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are tabling today in this House is not subject to any interpretation; on the contrary. After questioning the Minister of Development just fifteen days ago here in the parliamentary seat, and not clearing any of our doubts, but making sure that you would end up rescuing the Madrid radials, as you did with the banks - which also rescued them - as you did with the Castor, as you did with the Pertu tunnel, today we insist on the Spanish Government and call for three very clear commitments. The first, do not in any way extend the concessions of AP-2 and AP-7. The second, do not in any way extend the rates and prices of the tolls of AP-7 and AP-2 until the end of their concession. And, third, do not authorize the construction in Catalonia of any new tolls on the highways of state ownership. In fact, during the pre-campaign of the June 26 elections, the current president of the Congress and at that time holder of Fomento, Mrs Pastor, said textually that with PP the AP-7 would definitely be free of tolls. A few weeks later, this statement was also ratified in Catalonia by popular spokesman Rafael Hernando. The case is that the countdown has already begun to complete the award of the AP-7. In just over three years, Abertis will have to rid the Spanish state, which owns the motorway, of the section from Tarragona to Alicante and, two years later, of the northern part of Tarragona to the border with the French state. And, at the same time, from AP-2, the stretch that goes from the AP-2 link to Zaragoza. Catalans and Catalans have been paying for the ideological conception of the state for many years. I will explain myself: an absolutely centralist and absolutely radial ideological model. And we are paying for it in two concepts: money and quality of life. In quality of life because the three sections of motorway with the most intensity of the whole state are in Catalonia and also because, at the same time, it is a Catalan highway that supports the most traffic of heavy vehicles. And we are also paying it - as I said - in money because Catalonia pays the most expensive tolls in the whole state at a cost of 23 cents per kilometre, when in the rest of Spain the kilometre is currently paid at an average of 14 cents per kilometre. Moreover, because we are paying repeatedly for motorways that have already been paid; I repeat, they have already been paid, and not only paid, but amortized several times. With all this argument, ladies and gentlemen, the question to Minister De la Serna was clear and concise at the same time. The question was direct: can you tell us that the concession is not going to be extended? For the Catalan Republicans, the question to the Minister of Development was not only necessary, but also urgent. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u83	One second, Your Honor. [[Pause]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u84	Thank you, President. In Catalonia it worries that time makes good the rumors that come to us: the possibility that the completion of the Catalan toll motorways depends on the rescue of the Madrid radial motorways. Note, in Catalonia, that we are small but diverse, because we are also visionaries, and it turns out that today we were getting up with the headlines saying that the Madrid radials were being rescued. Speaking of silver, perhaps someone would have had the brilliant idea that the collapse of Madrid's radial highways would be paid for by Catalans. Could it be? Well, it's possible, isn't it? The formula? Easy: by extending the concession of AP-7 and AP-2 tolls, there is no more. And without forgetting that during the Aznar government 15 motorways were tendered and awarded, of which today, ladies and gentlemen, nine - nine of the fifteen - have already broken. In short, Catalan citizenship is tired; Catalan citizenship is very tired of paying. We have been paying motorways in Catalonia for 50 years because the Spanish government did not do the free highways it did in Madrid. Enough; enough, we don't want to pay anymore. I can say it louder, I'd say it's clearer not. Let me finish with two examples. First, the AP-7 section between Molins de Rei and Martorell - they are two Catalan populations - we have already paid it eighty times; not once nor two or three, eighty times; eighty times the real investment that was made at the time. And, secondly, the toll freeways, look, collected in 2014 a total of 1,722 million euros, of which 967, or 56%, were collected where? Catalonia. This is a real aggravation between citizens, a unique and exclusively fruit, and I must say so, of the inefficiency and inefficiency of Spain. Let us put an end once and for all - and I conclude - to that policy which you bring so much into practice and which we do not like at all: the policy which always socializes losses, which we pay among all, and which privatizes for a few, for your own, the benefits. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u85	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u86	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, and in order to follow a line that has been opened earlier in this Chamber, I too want to express my solidarity with those who are trying to exercise their freedom of expression, and I refer to the young people of Catalan Civil Society, who have been prevented from expressing it peacefully and freely by some of the anti-fascists who tried, as I say, to prevent them physically. Let's go to what we're going to. Indeed, I agree with the representative of Esquerra Republicana: Catalan citizenship is tired of paying. As a Catalan citizen, I am tired of paying tolls, of paying tolls on state-owned highways and tolls on the state-owned highways of the Generalitat de Catalunya. You have to say everything, let's say the whole truth, because you tell something that's true, but it's half the truth. We note, in line with your motion, that we are indeed experiencing a situation of inequality. In Spain there are a number of motorways whose maintenance the State assumes and there are a number of toll freeways that the user pays, and, as I say to you, some of these toll freeways - only in Catalonia 600 kilometers of toll, which is a barbarity - are of state ownership, which come from the 1970s and that once it was amortized its construction has continued to pay the toll for its maintenance, and there are others of ownership of the Generalitat, which also cost us money and cost us almost twice. When you give figures on the cost of the toll kilometer, which is certainly a barbarity, you also forget to add that the toll of the Generalitat's ownership highways is about twice as much as the others. In any case, I insist, that does not remove that he is not right in the part he claims, that he has it. But when comparisons are made with the high-quality motorways that exist in many areas of Spain and are free of charge, and which are maintained by the estuary, it forgets that many of these motorways were built with European funds and that these European funds were subject to a number of conditions that were naturally fulfilled in those areas and were not fulfilled in others, such as our dear Catalonia. In these areas, its per capita gross domestic product was below the European average and the Spanish average. These funds were directed towards the development and promotion of depressed areas. Does that sound bad to you? Because it's okay with me. Therefore, let us look less at the alleged aggravation, because it is good that with European funds important infrastructures could be installed in Spain in depressed areas and that this would help their development. That's okay; what's wrong is that Catalans have to be paying, paying and paying for the tolls. Let us remember that in Catalonia there have been toll freeways since the 1970s. I remember my parents paying toll when I was seven years old, but it is that the political formations that you represent and that you govern in Catalonia, and also the Socialist Party when Mr.Maragall was president of the Generalitat, have been renewing the concessions, so that if in the case of the state-owned highways in five years' time the concessions will be over, in the case of the autonomic highways we will be paying until the year 2039, so if I am still alive I will have been from the seven years to the seventy-eight - that is in the case that they are not renewed - paying tolls for going to Vilassar de Mar, 25 kilometers from Barcelona. There is indeed a situation of inequity. The 470 kilometers of state toll, I repeat, in five years will end, but the Generalitat implemented tolls until 1998; in particular, in that year, which is the last one, that of the C-32, while the last one that the state implemented was in 1978. The Generalitat could have opted, when the Generalitat existed - in 1978 did not exist - for a network of free highways...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u87	Mr. Girauta, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u88	...the cost of which would have been... Well, if I have to finish, I will tell you that we will vote for you as long as you admit - which I suppose you will - our amendment on your third point to reject the infrastructure policy - I am sure you will agree - carried out by the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party - but in particular of the People's Party, Mr Aznar and Mr Álvarez-Cascos - that it turns out that they suddenly represent a 5 billion-dollar burden on our backs that we neither expected nor imagined - or perhaps yes - but that in any case they involve a real abuse of the concept of patrimonial responsibility of the Administration...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u89	Mr. Girauta, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u90	I'm done, President, thank you very much. ...and an example of the capitalism of friends. We do not accept that this is the end and the closure of this matter, we cannot assume these 5 billion and, of course, if that is the case, the responsibilities will have to be cleared up. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u91	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u92	Madam President, thank you. Yesterday at La 1 we had breakfast churro and pasta, the radial churro and the pasta we will have to pay for it. The gift comes from an amendment to the 2011 budgets that friends of the Majestic put in a package of mails. The motion on the AP-7 and AP-2 is to talk about the N-340 and the N-240, which are still unfolding. By the way, gentlemen of the government - or should I turn to you, Madam President - for when should the unfolding that had to be underway in 2016 between Altafulla and La Pobla de Montornés? Do you know where I'm from? From Altafulla, which is not a town of Gaul but of the Golden Coast, Baix Gaià, Tarragonès, where, together with the rest of the mayors, we signed a pact called the Pact of Barà. Barà certainly sounds to them because it is the heritage of humanity; by the way, to access you play life. It is not a matter of history, because it is not - although we could go back from the Via Augusta to the still corridor of the Mediterranean - it is a subject of topicality, of people who are mobilized, who cut down and have cut down roads to claim a safer mobility. The unfolding of Tarragona to Altafulla was preceded by five deaths and more than a year of road cuts. The latest changes in the area of the Medol, also the heritage of humanity, occurred as a result of an accident in which two women and their two minor children lost their lives. Just 300 meters separate one accident from the other and several years of struggle. In the traffic courts, especially those of the Terres de l'Ebre, people tell us: Do not fail us. And, ladies and gentlemen, I will not fail you. You and I are your hope that the situation will be resolved. In spite of everything, imagine, they trust the system. I can name Pilar, Mario, Nuria, Gaucho, Les Cases d'Alcanar, Llorens or Recio, or the mayors and mayors like Martí, Montserrat, Pere, Jordi, Inma, Ramón, Joan, Ferrán, Eduard, Felix, or the transporters, who together make piña for a just cause, which is to avoid deaths. It is also an economic problem. Many of you know the Costa Dorada, and now that the Vice President has office in Barcelona you can come to see us or Minister Méndez de Vigo could take advantage and come to greet his cousin, who is a councillor of our municipal group and thus be able to see in situ the problem of Camp de Tarragona and l'Ebre. The area has become a tourist monoculture due to a lack of investment in infrastructure that drowns petrochemicals, the port and the productive sector. Tourism is a fundamental engine of our economy, tourism that some want of casino, but others we bet on sports, cultural, gastronomic and family. Families from many places in Spain and Europe who come by car and move around our regions by vehicle because the train, we said the other day, is torture. They and those of us who live or work in the area live with the jams and the danger. The only solution they can think of is to kick out the trucks, and the problem is not the trucks but the model. Being a deputy in Madrid has made me understand that the conflict also exists in Aragon with the AP-2, in Andalusia with the AP-4 between Cadiz and Seville, in La Rioja with the A-68, in Valencia or elsewhere, and I will have no lapsus, in the C-32 in Catalonia. It is not a territorial problem, but, as our President Pasqual Maragall said, it is 3%. It seems that the invisible hand of the market is directed by an excavator, that the map of the high-capacity tracks has been drawn by the commissioners and not the experts, has not been made to favor mobility nor to weave an intermodal network between the peoples of Spain, but to favor the capitalism of friends, to be possible watered with Vega Sicily and, yes, ask, a ham, please. You can't go on like this; the party's over. Next to a dirt road, full of roundabouts, dangerous, contaminant, we have empty tracks, which has been paid several times their price and with too much blood. We are people of squares and streets, like me, we have proposals and we encourage them to work for an integrated model to study the example of Austria. I am not talking about the victory of the eco-socialists against the extreme right xenophobic, but about their model of maintenance of the high-capacity track network. Let us remove toll booths, build on a dialogue with sovereign people, face disaster, face suffering and secure that we will build a country of freer countries, also of tolls. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u93	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u94	Thank you, President. Several years ago a movement that refused to pay tolls arose in Catalonia. When asked one of them he said that he wanted to get up in front of a news report he had heard in a radio minute earlier, that news said that the Ministry of Development intended to balance the deficit accounts of the toll freeways in Madrid with other toll freeways in Catalonia. We sincerely believe that this news is current today. On Monday the minister made statements in which he said that all Spaniards will pay 5 billion euros for the disaster of the management of the people's government in the infrastructures. This outrage shown by a Catalan citizen that Catalan toll roads could be paid for with Catalonian money is also an outrage that all Spaniards have. Yesterday many Spaniards were outraged to hear the Minister of Fomento say that all Spaniards will pay 5 billion euros that costs the rescue of the Madrid radials and toll freeways. If you listen to what you can do with 5 billion sure that the indignation goes up: more than 100 hospitals, more than 1,500 schools, more than a million people could charge for a year the 400 euros that are so much needed to live. And citizens want to meet those responsible for this disaster. Well, if we look back, we will see clearly that the culprit is the People's Party government during Mr Aznar's time. His obsession with cutting ribbons of inauguration and plates with his name - that is, with money from all the Spaniards - led him to inflate the figures of the traffic that was going to circulate along these routes of Madrid and other areas of Spain, and whose cost of construction was considerably increased by the price of the expropriations. A forecast of 387 million increased to over 2,217. Is there anyone who can do the math so wrong? Is there anyone who can mismanage the resources of all the Spaniards? This is something that we also have to thank the Aznar Government, thanks to a Soil Law according to which all the soil was potentially urbanizable. This led to a significant increase in expropriations. The Aznar government began with what Spain is doing well and has become a horror film for the citizens of this country whose consequences we continue to suffer. Let me repeat some pearls that the PP officials said in their openings. Aznar called them 'new milestones'. It also said:... 'they will continue to be carried out without shocks or strangulations'. And I wonder: How would Mr Aznar qualify the disaster we have known these days? Surely Minister Rafael Catalá gave us a hint of this by saying a few months ago that it was going to be a good business, but here the statements end. Who was it going to be a good deal for? For the concessionary companies but not for the Spaniards that we will have to pay it with the resources of everyone. 'A clear bet from the government that many generations will have to value and thank.' That's what Gallardón said. And I say to myself that the only thing that will thank future generations is to have to pay many billions that will have to cut health, education and other services that are essential. When a toll freeway has benefits these go to concessionary companies and when they have losses we pay all the Spaniards, and we want to change that. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to the initiative of the Republican Left of Catalonia in which we ask that we stop doing politics with the money spent on infrastructure; party politics that the People's Party has made and that has led us to a disaster. We ask that the current law be changed to allow all Spaniards to pay when a toll freeway breaks. We believe that it is a matter of justice and that this country cannot be allowed one more day to manage itself on the backs of the Spaniards. We have seen how with the People's Party first they broke the banks and we paid all the Spaniards, then they broke the families and they paid the Spanish families, and now we see how they break the toll freeways and we're going to pay the Spaniards again. That is the legacy that the People's Party Government is going to leave this country. That is why we will agree with Esquerra Republicana, but not in order not to extend concessions on the Catalan motorways, we do not want any Spaniard to pay a euro more than he has to pay when the deadline for these motorways is over. We don't want extensions on any motorway in Spain. In addition, we believe that we need to talk about infrastructure without cheating, about all of Spain's infrastructure. We have to decide what priorities are, how they are paid, how we manage to achieve territorial cohesion and how we get all the Spaniards, and one extreme says, to have equal opportunities to develop. Let us think about it, let us think about doing politics with a view to all the citizens, to the Catalans, to the extremists, to the Andalusians, and let us think that the disasters of the People's Party cannot be carried out once again, not one more day, not one more minute on the backs of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Roca Mas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u97	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u98	We discussed a Republican Left motion on tolls and my first political memory comes to mind, dating back to the tender age of seven. At that time I had to go with my parents to the Civil Registry to change my name because a gentleman who came out of the coins by God's grace did not want me to be called Jordi. I thank my parents for not instilling in me neither resentment nor hatred. A few years later - another political memory -, already a little older, in second of BUP, when I made my enrollment asked me in which language I wanted to study. I took my option and had to do nine out of ten subjects in the other language because a gentleman, who will not come out in the coins, wanted to eliminate everything that Spain means from Catalonia. I thank my parents for not instilling in me hatred or resentment. [[Applauds]] They didn't do it, not because we're a family with a grandfather on every side of the Civil War, but because we're a decent family. On the contrary, the separatism that, when speaking of tolls - within its two objectives, which are: to concentrate all power and eliminate everything that Spain means of Catalonia - removes the low passions of people with a message as easy as false and perverse: that Catalans pay tolls because in the rest of Spain nobody pays anything. But what is the reality? The reality is that, after thirty-five years, during which from an office of the Generalitat of Catalonia it was influenced to perpetuate all the concessions of toll to the Catalans, the Government of Mariano Rajoy has not expanded, in a time of savage crisis, not a single concession of toll highways. That's the reality. The reality is that of all the kilometers of toll that the Spanish Government has in Spain only 18% - more or less the population - are in Catalonia. The truth is that 50% of the Spanish Government's toll subsidies come to Catalonia. It's the double face of Republican Left when he talks about tolls. It is true that we have all been wrong in the traffic forecasts, in all the autonomous communities, but Esquerra, with one face criticizing rescues and the other hidden that had to be rescued with the FLA of all the Spaniards the Vic-Ripoll for 400 million euros. [[Applauds]] It is the double face of Esquerra, which with one face promotes a demonstration in tolls not to pay and then perpetuates and renews toll concessions in a Generalitat office. It is the double face of Esquerra Republicana, who with one face criticizes the highways in Madrid and with the other forced the government Zapatero, in exchange for not approving the budgets, to stop the fourth belt in Barcelona. It is the double face of Esquerra Republicana, that with a face that the citizens of Rubí pay 2,000 euros for a toll and with the other hidden face that is a toll of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Separatist gentlemen of Catalonia who pay tolls, have deceived them. Make the PP that will do you much better. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] And it's that Republican Left, as in so many other things, has two faces, the hard one and the hard one. His lies have made many people talk about tolls without having all the information, that many people blame the Government of Spain for the tolls of the Generalitat. They have even managed to get their lies to lead many Catalans to believe that the government that has the most debt, the more taxes it charges, the more radars it has and that it has the most expensive tolls in Europe, suddenly, by magic, was going to be the worst autonomous government in Spain to be the best government in the world. Complex times come, their lies go nowhere. Globalization and technological advances present us with incredible challenges. This is no time to breed hatred or grudges. It is time to talk, to seek solutions among all, which is what the citizens have told us. The Spanish Government must come up with solutions, but it cannot do so alone and it needs the participation of all and also of the Government of the Generalitat. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u99	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u100	Thank you, President. I need the attention of the Members of the People's Party because they will have listened to their colleague and they will think that they will vote against the Republican Left proposal. [[Applauds]] Know that you are going to vote in favour; even if you think it is a lie after your partner's speech, you are going to vote in favour. You have these things, you will vote in favour of an amendment negotiated with you. It's the double speech. [[Applauds]] This speech you're making here will do you good, but it has no credibility. When you vote in favour - you amend and vote in favour - you lose absolutely all credibility. I could give you the list - this would also benefit Mr Girauta - of the comparative aggravations between motorways and concessions. We would have to see how many concessions the Generalitat of Catalonia has expanded: very few; how many concessions the State has expanded: many; how many backpacks will be left to pay on these highways, the A-7 and the A-2, by the State at the end of the concession, because there will be a few billion left, or does this not count? It says: The Generalitat had the option of making toll-free highways. All right. And how do we pay them? Are we underfunded, or are we not? The situation is that simple. Therefore, before these speeches and the opposing votes, they remain in evidence. [[Applauds]] They can say whatever they want, but if they were so convinced, they would vote against it, but they would vote in favour. Do you know why they vote in favour? Because they have a bad conscience, because they don't know how to show up in Catalonia after voting this. [[Applauds]] In any case, we will have plenty of opportunities to talk about the infrastructure deficit in Catalonia and why the state, the former minister and the current minister - we will see what it does - has not yet been worthy to finish the unfolding of the N-340 with the corresponding A-7. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u101	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca also has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I said before a similar initiative put forward by another parliamentary group at the last meeting of the Committee on Development, concerning the Atlantic Highway, in Galicia, I reject this motion whose content would deserve some credibility if it were at the same time as another symmetrical one referring to the toll motorways of competence of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which I do not know that the autonomous deputies of Esquerra Republicana have presented in Parliament. Therefore, if what is intended this afternoon is to limit the State in a matter in which the Generalitat, according to ERC, aspires to be a State, it is not acceptable even under a principle of supposed reciprocity. This initiative also contravenes the concession award documents, the economic functioning of which is based on the guarantees of the economic balance to which tolls are subject. The proposals put forward by Mrs Jordà i Roura ignore this principle, but in this rostrum we argue that Spain is a state of law in which the law is to be complied with, the rights to be exercised, the contracts to be complied with and, where there are discrepancies, the courts are to decide. Finally, it is important to note that the policy of building transport infrastructure must also be based on constitutional mandates of equality, solidarity and territorial balance. For decades, the essential impetus for the construction of infrastructure needed to complement the sacrificed contribution of all Spaniards through taxes with the resources derived from financing through concessions operated under tolls; in other words, the State itself would never have been able to cope with successive plans for the modernization of the road network. Giving up the added value of the private initiative would also have meant the abandonment of growth and the provision of new and better infrastructure in Catalonia and the rest of Spain, which is absolutely contrary to the general interest before, now and after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u104	Madam President, I will speak from the seat, as I will be brief. The motion, as you know, addresses three issues: that of not extending the concession, that of not increasing prices during the period of validity and that of not building new toll roads in Catalonia. The truth is that these issues are not entirely alien to us, but rather rather different, since we have our own experience. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and not only it, but its historical territory, the outlying parliaments, is competent in the construction and maintenance of roads, and we have our own toll network. That is also why we have been able to develop our own policies which have led us to a certain model based on certain parameters and conditions. Euskadi is a territory, you know, that it is not only mountainous, but also very difficult to build, and that implies construction costs... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u105	One second, Mr. Barandiaran. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an absolute lack of respect for the speaker's discussions throughout the afternoon, but these last few minutes of the plenary session are unbearable for those in the plenary, so I ask you, if you want to talk to each other, to leave the plenary room. Go ahead, Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. He said that in Euskadi and thanks to the powers we have, we have our own policies, and in the area of high-occupancy roads we also exercise them with certain characteristics product of the physical and geographical characteristics of the country, since we are a very intense area of passage of international traffic, and therefore with specific maintenance costs. That is why we have a road use pricing which is also our own policy. That makes us doubt the opportunity to pronounce on the desirability or otherwise of certain parameters that do not respond to our own policies. Our model is own, we are not going to make any comments about other models that can be applied, but we are going to take advantage of this small step in this matter to make a new claim. We too have certain concessions that have not yet been reversed, namely the AP-68 and a piece of the AP-1 in the field of the Basque Country, which we would also claim to the Minister if he were present, but we will do so to the Government at the moment. We want to do it and we keep it because we believe that managing it will do better. We hope that will happen in a short time.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u107	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Jordà i Roura whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u108	We were just signing. Well, yes, we're going to make a transactional, even if it looks like a lie, with the People's Party, with Podemos and with the PDC.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u110	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the statutes of the Asian Investment Bank in Infrastructure, done at Beijing on 29 June 2015. As agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, we will open a three-minute shift for the groups to set their positions and the opinion will be put to the vote by consensus with the rest of the votes scheduled for today. The intervention will be done from the seats. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. This is the last item on the agenda. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking briefly on behalf of the Democratic Party to announce our affirmative vote. I believe that one day we will also have to vote on international conventions one by one. We want to show that this is an agreement signed by the Spanish Government on 29 June 2015. That tells us that there is a long list of agreements committed by the Executive that have not yet passed through the debate and consideration of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Plenary of Congress and the Senate. Within the competence of the Executive it has the capacity to sign, but also within the competence of Parliament it has the capacity to know and even amend international conventions. Secondly, I would like to point out that this international convention was signed in a strategic decision of the Spanish Government, which we share, albeit, if I may, from a descriptive and non-evaluative point of view, eccentric with regard to the classic lines of action of foreign policy: the commitment by an infrastructure development bank in Asia. This is the window of opportunity for the future on a continent that is growing. When it was signed, in June last year, it was done in a certain context, following the outcome of the American elections and the announcement by the President-elect of the United States of America of his desire to break the Treaty of Free Trade between the United States and Asia. This still provides greater opportunities for Europe and, among them, also the possibilities of the European economy. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u112	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u113	Thank you, Madam President. To the extent that the economic centre of gravity of the Atlantic Ocean has been displaced to the Pacific, the great Asian actor, the giant, the People's Republic of China, has also increased its importance, as you know, for several years. To a lesser extent Russia too, but let us say that its rise has not been as spectacular as that experienced by the People's Republic of China. At this point in history, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that we are now in the area of Asia-Pacific with two models of development in struggle: on the one hand, the American model and, on the other hand, the Chinese model. I would say that the first one is in direct decline while the second one is taking ever greater and better positions. On the commercial level, on the one hand, the United States has announced that it is renouncing APEC space, as well as negotiating the so-called TPP treaty. Despite Obama's statements at the recent Lima Summit, the truth is that President Trump already warned that he was going to give up these spaces and with it, surely, to pay the canon of American pax in the Pacific, at least the commercial canon because the military canon will now remain the only pillar of American hegemony. On the financial level, there are also two models at stake. On the one hand, that model born of Bretton Woods, which somehow moved to Asia with the Asian Development Bank, a bank that has been controlling to date the United States and Japan, versus the models that have been born in the third world and for which China is a clear reference. It has happened, ladies and gentlemen, that in this new leading role China is taking when it announced the creation of this bank, the US government asked its partners not to join this initiative. Let us say that weak strength or weak capacity of conviction had the Americans since their most important partners, both in Europe and in the region, soon announced their adherence to the programme presented by the People's Republic of China. Arriving at the point where we talk about Spain, it is enough to say that the traditional absence of our country in the region has been flagrant. It is true that it is not our natural area of development, but the truth is that Spain has had a role at least close to zero in recent decades. It is true that someone in the government has had the intuition that we must join this initiative as other European partners were doing so. Surely the interests of the Spanish construction companies have also played a very important role in this decision. We, as a parliamentary group, ladies and gentlemen, are going to vote in favour; we believe that this new model that is being imposed can also be fruitful and is about to evolve. But we want to warn about the need to accompany this measure with two other measures; two measures that have to do with strengthening the multilateral field. First of all, the commitments...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u114	It has to end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u115	Yeah, ten seconds, president. Firstly, what has to do with the environmental commitments and the Paris Agreement, and secondly, what has to do with respect for human rights - human rights - which must be universal and for which our group has been promoting the binding instrument of transnationals and human rights. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u116	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u117	Thank you, President. As Mr Xuclà said, this is the first of a long series of treaties and conventions that will come from the fact that the Government has been in office and has not been able to deal with them in Parliament. It is a new international development financial institution, in this case, as has been pointed out, not Western, which does not originate in the Bretton Woods agreements as other ones operating in Asia, but is a Chinese initiative. As Mr Guijarro said, an initiative that sparked some immediate accessions to the area and some reluctance on the part of the United States, which have been overcome by a massive presence of European Union member countries and even of countries in the American orbit such as Australia or Korea. I would avoid making a simplistic interpretation that the fact that it is a Chinese initiative and there are American reticences suddenly becomes an enormous proof of progress for humanity. Some interpretation of this kind we have recently seen in this House with the analysis of the agreement with Canada. In any case, we support the initiative and support Spanish participation because a harmonious development of the entire world economy, and especially the development of areas with less economic activity, will help a more active and, also, competitive economy - the Asian economy - not because of social dumping, not because of environmental dumping, but really because of the multiplier effect that the infrastructures financed by this bank can have. We therefore support the initiative because we believe it can lead to a more balanced and fairer global balance. But we ask the Government to be particularly vigilant with the social and environmental clauses of the projects that are financed from the funds of this bank, because we fear that this massive presence of China does not initially guarantee excessive environmental sensitivity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u118	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bernabé Pérez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The new line in foreign policy clearly states that from now on they must govern criteria of collaboration and never of confrontation. On the basis of this reasoning, there are three reasons why the People's Parliamentary Group defends the vote in favour of the ratification of this treaty. Firstly, because a country of the importance of Spain must always be adequately represented in the relevant multilateral financial institutions and it is undoubtedly that this institution, endowed with a foundational capital of US$ 100 billion and that promotes connectivity and infrastructure between Europe and Asia by recovering the concept of the silk route and the exchanges of goods between East and West, demands that Spain be present in this body. Secondly, because several and very important Spanish public works companies are already established and working successfully in Asia and Oceania. Being present at the Asian Investment Bank there is no doubt that we will have more capacity to act to support their work, that they will be able to choose with greater guarantees to win public tenders and tenders and, also, we will be able to give them better financing conditions for the daily development of their activity. Finally, because of the fundamental fact that being a founding member of the Asian Investment Bank in Infrastructure means being part of the governing body of this institution - in particular, of its board of governors - as well as having a number of additional votes to which we would initially be entitled. Needless to say, if we did not ratify the treaty, ladies and gentlemen, Spain would be out of the way and if it were to pretend to be part of this institution in the future, it would have no choice but to put itself on a waiting list, it would have no right to subscribe to any kind of minimum social capital as it currently does and, of course, it would lack the political rights we have mentioned. We therefore advocate the signing of this treaty in support of what our Government has already done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u120	Mr. Maura, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u121	Thank you, President. We will approve, so all the speakers who have spoken before me have said, the participation of our country, Spain, in the Asian Investment Bank. The adoption of these statutes should be the first step towards facilitating economic growth, attracting more investment in the region and helping to make the system of global economic governance more just, equitable and effective. Spain can't stay behind. Interests for our country, as an investor country in this entity, could be among the following. Of course, that of attracting more business for Spanish companies in the region, taking advantage of the leadership of our companies in the field of infrastructures and satisfying in turn the need for infrastructures that the Asian continent currently suffers from. But I do not want to stop urging Spain, as a participating member of this institution, to be vigilant in the face of possible cases of corruption in the projects, their transparency and their connection with the demand for respect for human rights, among which we should also include the monitoring of the working conditions of the people concerned, without forgetting at all, as regards the repertoire of the precautionary measures, the environmental standards, in which the first actor of this bank, which is, let us remember, China, has to improve so much from now on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats because the vote will begin. We are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 234 plus 2 telematics votes, 236; against 97; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u124	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u125	We shall now proceed to vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 343 in favour, 340 in favour, 2 in favour, 342 in favour, abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u126	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u127	We shall now proceed to the House's approval of the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u128	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u129	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. In the first place, we voted for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress on climate change. We will vote on it in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group into Congress, Socialist, Confederal of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens and Mixed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 318 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u130	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE DEROGATION OF WORK REFORM AND THE PREPARATION OF A NEW STATUS OF WORKERS. [[File number 162/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u131	We now vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the repeal of labour reform and the drafting of the new Workers' Statute. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Grupo Vasco, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 168 against, 131 abstentions, 42.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u132	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u133	We then proceed to vote on the motion as a result of an inquiry. We voted on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left on the future of toll freeways. We shall vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment. [[Mr Girauta Vidal asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u134	We are not clear whether our amendment has been accepted or not to condemn the socialization of radial losses.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u135	The services of the House, as you know, have received the compromise amendment and that will be voted on. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the services of the House for the text of the compromise amendment to file 173/00004 and in those terms the vote will begin. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 340 against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u136	It's approved. [[Rumors.-Applause.-Laughter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-13-CD161213.u137	We shall then vote on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the statutes of the Asian Bank for Infrastructure Investment, which was adopted in Beijing on 29 June 2015. Does the House agree to the adoption of the opinion by consent? [[Consent]] It was adopted. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and ten minutes of the night.
