ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of dona María Such Palomares, I ask Don Ciprià Ciscar Casabán if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u3	In place of Don Alejandro Ramírez del Molino Morán, I ask Don Víctor Valentín Píriz Maya if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u4	I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u5	Don Ciprià Ciscar Casabán and Don Víctor Valentín Píriz Maya have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the only item on the agenda is the debate on the nomination of the candidate for the Presidency of the Government. The first secretary of the House read out the proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u7	Thank you, President. In accordance with article 99.1 of the Constitution, after consultations with the representatives appointed by the political groups with parliamentary representation, I have come to propose to the most excellent Mr. Mariano Rajoy Brey as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government, which I communicate to your excellence for the timely proposal to the Congress of Deputies. Palace of La Zarzuela, July 28, 2016. Philip, king. The President of the Congress of Deputies, Ana Maria Pastor Julián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u8	Mr Rajoy Brey, proposed candidate for the Presidency of the Government, has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons why I have accepted the mandate of your Majesty and ask for the confidence of the House in my investiture are three: Spain needs a government urgently; the Spaniards have clearly indicated their preference for the People's Party, and thirdly, there is no reasonable alternative. Firstly, as I say, Spain needs an effective government and needs it urgently. We have achieved that, after two elections and eight months with a government in office, the phrase 'Spain needs a government' has already become a popular cry. I will not insist because you all use it and we listen to it every day in all areas - in the media, in companies, in local and autonomous administrations, among our neighbours, with our European partners, etc. - everywhere, on the part of everyone and for a long time. In fact, on 1 March this year, when Mr Sánchez presented himself to the investiture in this House, he argued on several occasions: Spain urgently needs a government. Since then, almost six months have passed. Fortunately we had the forecast to approve the budgets for this year, and fortunately also the measures taken during the last parliamentary term have allowed economic growth and job creation to continue in 2016. Spain is today one of the largest countries in the European Union with the highest economic growth, exactly at a rate that is more than twice as high as the euro area as a whole, and what is most important - thanks to this growth of the economy - is that employment in Spain continues to increase at a rate of half a million people a year. This is confirmed by the latest known data: we are the country of Europe where more jobs are created. It seems clear that, despite the limitations of the Government in office, we are achieving that confidence in the Spanish economy exceeds the political uncertainty that is accompanying us during these months. However, ladies and gentlemen, everything has a limit and this can change; in fact, there are already many warnings that we have received from within and outside Spain about the need to have a government in full office as quickly as possible. Otherwise things could be twisted and evolved worse, and this is something that under no circumstances should we allow. The Spaniards have done extraordinary work in recent years to overcome extreme economic difficulties. The Spaniards have starred in a success story that is recognized and admired outside our borders. They have begun to see a horizon of hope after the worst economic crisis we have experienced in decades, and therefore it would not be fair to cloud that horizon of prosperity or spoil the ongoing recovery because of political paralysis. In addition, there are urgent reasons that also require the early formation of a Government. As Spain knows, it has recently negotiated with the European authorities an important degree of flexibility to continue the process of reducing the public deficit, delaying until 2018 the time when we are required to place it below 3% of the gross domestic product. It is therefore inescapable to take the necessary measures to achieve this objective, and strict compliance with the terms of the agreement with Europe before 15 October is essential to this end. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have pointed out, this is the most urgent task. The consequences of failing on this issue would be extremely serious; among other things, sanctions would result for our country or the loss of important European sources of funding, not to mention the serious impairment of the credibility gained with so much effort over these years. I would like to place special emphasis on the need to refer to these Courts the draft General State Budgets for 2017, not only because they are the central element of our commitment to Europe, but because they affect millions of people. I remind you that almost 14 million Spaniards receive some kind of public benefit in our country every month. These benefits depend on the budgets, but also on the financing of the autonomous communities and local corporations, and hence the social services they provide. Budgets also depend on investment, public employment offers and so many other key issues in a country's life. For all these reasons, I say to you that it is urgent for Spain to have a Government capable of acting and responding as soon as possible. That is why, and to put an end to the democratic anomaly of the existence of a Government in office for more than eight months and two electoral processes, a Government which, precisely because it is in office, is limited to making decisions that affect or are in the general interest. I could make more arguments, but I think the ones I have just pointed out are sufficient to justify the first reason for my presence here: the urgency of setting up the government. That's the first reason, but it's not the only one. The second reason, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is what the Spaniards have arranged by clearly asking the People's Party to govern. I am not referring only to those who, with their votes, have accentuated the weight of our party in Spanish life; I also include the rest of the voters who, when asked in the polls, respond mostly that the People's Party should govern. It is therefore the Spaniards who also bring me to this rostrum. Not only has the People's Party been chosen as a preferred election option in two successive ballots, but it has been the only party that has seen people's support grow, while its possible alternatives were relegated to the ballot box. The election result of last June has been unequivocal. Never, except in the case of absolute majorities, has there been so much distance between the first and second games. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always useful to know what messages voters do not agree with, but above all it is important to know what they are defending. Well, during the last two election campaigns some of our opponents did not want to recognize anything good in what my Government has done. If we bear in mind that our work, our efforts and our results have been strongly condemned, we must recognize that voters have relied more on what they see with their own eyes than on what some tell them. That is why they have supported what the People's Party is doing while denying reason to those who wanted to dismantle a task that is much more commendable than otherwise. Just see how Spain was at the end of 2011 and how it is today in terms of economic growth, job creation and unemployment reduction. The Spanish, like the rest of Europe, have rigorously appreciated the strength of a government that, in very difficult circumstances and in a surprisingly short time, has managed to straighten the situation out, save the country from a disaster, put Spain at the head of Europe in growth, and open the horizon of well-being and employment that most people want. [[Applauds]] That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, I am also here because the Spaniards have wanted to do so, because what should be done in Spain seems very important to them, and because they do not know that others can or want or know how to continue the task as is right for people. Thirdly, I am here because the alternative that I propose, in addition to being the most respectful of the will of the Spaniards, is the most convenient and reasonable. Unless someone tries to play with the interest and patience of the Spaniards again or prefers to repeat the elections, the option I bring to this House is the only one that seems viable. The reasons are obvious and I don't need to dwell much on them. My proposal is the only real possibility that Spain can enjoy a moderate government that is not an adventure of radicalism, inefficiency and uncertainty; a government that continues the task undertaken, encourages economic activity, encourages investment, creates employment and extends within and outside Spain the climate of political and economic confidence that we need; a government that can work from the first moment, from the first minute without having - like others - to lose another year to catch up and resolve its internal contradictions before starting to exercise. This, which is always recommended, is essential when there is an urgent need to respond effectively to the fixed-term pressures that await us in a few weeks. In short, ladies and gentlemen, there is no alternative that responds to the wishes of the Spaniards, serves their interests, covers their needs, raises confidence and is in a position to intervene immediately. If it existed would be for something else, it would be to form a model of government of a thousand colors, radical and inefficient that neither suits Spain nor wants the Spaniards; a government that would also be mortgaged by the demands of parties whose main objective is to challenge our democratic institutions and break our territorial unity. In short, ladies and gentlemen, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the reasons why I ask for the confidence of the House are three: Spain needs an effective government urgently, the Spaniards have clearly indicated their preference for the People's Party, and thirdly, there is no viable alternative. That is why I have accepted the mandate of your Majesty and come today to ask for the confidence of the House; I thus fulfil my obligation to do everything in my power to ensure that Spain can have a Government as soon as possible and that we are not engaged in a new electoral consultation. I repeat, I am required by the impetus of the citizens who have placed the People's Party in the first place, twice in a row, and I am obliged in the end to make my proposal the only reasonable one in the present circumstances. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that Spain be able to have a government, but that is not enough, because it is obvious that Spain is not served by any government. We would be deceiving ourselves - worse still, deceiving the Spaniards - if we let them believe that it is enough to choose no matter what government, whatever government, to solve the ballot or - as some say - to unlock the situation. What Spain is calling for is obviously a government that can govern, that can deal effectively with problems, which requires a government that is stable, durable, solid and reassuring. A stable Government is a Government that is not subject to constant vats because everyone is loyal to its commitments. In addition, Spain does not serve a Government for one year, not even for two; its problems call for more time to be available. As long as we take advantage of time, we have extraordinary tasks ahead of us - which I will talk about later - such as reaching the 20 million Spaniards with work, ensuring full economic recovery or protecting our territorial unity. Any of them - and others to which I will refer later - require sustained and persevering work. I want to insist on this: either we are able to make a persistent effort or it will be impossible to achieve what we all want; or we act responsibly or we will be deceiving the Spaniards, making them believe that in Spain we can deal with an ephemeral government. Moreover, that stable and lasting Government must be in a position to govern, which means that it can make decisions and that its decisions are implemented. This means something as much about Perogrullo as that Spain needs a strong government, without mortgages, that can develop its own plans with disembarkation, make decisions as quickly as the circumstances require; finally, respond effectively to the challenges not only economic, labor and social, but also to any threat to security or to the unity of the Spaniards. It is therefore not a question of approving which Government or imposing on it to adapt its actions to its own political musculature, let alone to restrict its programme to what its weakness allows it. Bad service would be this for the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is not an end in itself, much less; the Government is an instrument to respond to the problems of Spain, for which we want the Government, to do what the Spanish need, and therefore we are looking for an instrument appropriate to the dimensions of that task. [[Applauds]] It must therefore be stable, it must be able to govern, and in addition, ladies and gentlemen, it must inspire confidence and do so in all directions, because we must reassure everyone: parents, people still seeking employment, entrepreneurs, investors, pensioners, the European Union, the whole world, because that confidence marks the ceiling and the limit of our development; the higher we know it will be the pace of our recovery; and the less solid or reliable the new government looks the worse for Spain. We need a reliable and predictable government in its decisions, which does not arouse uncertainty or suspicion, but rather a government with which everyone can know what to abide. It is urgent to close the door to any shadow of doubt or suspicion about the politics, solvency or responsibility of the Spanish nation. Too many economic decisions await cautious expectations of the course we take, and with them so many other capital investments, business initiatives, job offers that do not want to risk until they reveal what will happen in Spain. We are recognized as having great prospects for growth, but we all know that they are linked to the current course of the Spanish economy, and that they are incompatible with any kind of economic adventurism. We care to let the whole world know that Spain is not only very attractive - that they already know - but reliable, which is what they want to hear. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs an agreement-based government, because that is what electoral results demand and because we face challenges that no political party can respond to alone today. This, when a parliamentary majority is not available, requires either a coalition government or at least some kind of agreement that avoids a sterile legislature - ladies and gentlemen, this was the proposal I made, both on 21 December and 27 June - a broad-based parliamentary government capable of making by consensus and permanence the major reforms that Spain needs; a government like those that operate in many European countries and for many years. He proposed an agreement similar to that which governs the Community institutions and which is being faced with the anti-European populisms which have emerged in recent times; he proposed that government which was born of broad agreements from the outset and with total and absolute conviction, among other reasons because I believe it is the best way to interpret the will that the Spaniards defined with their votes. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have mentioned the agreements last, but I might as well have started there. Agreements are so important that I do not think it can be viable for a Government that does not have them, because neither will it be stable nor will it be able to govern or sow confidence. Without agreement, it will not even be possible to avoid new elections. In short, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to offer the Spaniards a government that is in a position to deal with the outstanding tasks, it is up to this House to assure them of a stable, capable, reassuring government that must necessarily be based on a broad agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, part of this agreement has already been reached: the People's Party has presented itself to these elections in coalition with the Foro Asturias, Unión del Pueblo Navarro parties - which are in this House - and the Aragonese Party, with a government program that we jointly submit to the Spaniards. I would like to thank the representatives of the three formations for their support and loyalty at this time. [[Applauds]] After June 26 we have made much progress in the right direction with Citizens and Coalition Canaria. I also thank them for their efforts; I sincerely believe that they are doing what is best for the Spaniards today. [[Applauds]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, after pooling our different approaches and finding a shared position on the future of our country, I am in a position to put the following proposal for Spain for consideration by this House. Our project contains a key objective: employment. I think we will all agree on this point. No one should doubt today that employment is the goal of any economic policy and the necessary budget of any social policy. Employment has always been my highest concern and priority. When I first assumed the responsibilities as President of the Government in Spain in 2011, 1,400 jobs were destroyed every day in our country. Today, almost 1,600 Spanish people find work. [[Applauds]] Simply, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has been reversed, the trend has been completely reversed. If we are the country of the European Union where more employment is being destroyed, we are today leading the creation of jobs in the eurozone. As I said, we have changed the trend, but we cannot change the objective: there are still millions of people in Spain looking for an opportunity. And now they have more hope of finding her. That is why we still have work to do. We can aspire to reach the 20 million people working in 2020 Spain. This is as much as maintaining the current pace of creating half a million jobs a year, and also ensuring that they are increasingly stable and quality. This objective does not depend solely on us making an employment policy; it depends in particular on us maintaining economic growth and consolidating recovery. It therefore depends on maintaining and improving the economic policies that have opened this stage and improved our prospects. That is our fundamental challenge for the coming years, at least it is for me. Because, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to these policies, we have begun the exit from the deepest crisis that Spain has experienced in several generations, a Spain that was on the verge of collapse: 3,800,000 people lost their jobs - part of the government that I preside over -, closed companies without interruption, disappeared investments, collapsed public revenues -70 billion euros, which is said to be soon -, financed - surely they remember - was an impossible mission for companies, families and administrations. Such was the scenario, that sovereign rescue seemed the only relief to a desperate situation. I do not want to think about the economic consequences and, above all, the social consequences of that decision. The case is that we do not ask, we trust in Spain and the capacity of the Spaniards. We took measures as a sovereign country that did not give up owning its future and that took decisions to overcome the serious imbalances in our economy without abandoning the Spaniards with less means to cope with this situation. Despite all the difficulties, with the efforts of the Spanish and the appropriate reforms, we managed to regain confidence, credibility and above all job creation. Allow me to explain a few facts to illustrate my words. It is not in my heart to recreate myself in the great change that has taken place in our country in the last four years, but to set the starting point for a future full of possibilities that we cannot fail. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved from recession to growth. As I pointed out earlier, last quarter we grew almost three times as much as the eurozone average. We have moved from the massive destruction of employment to creating half a million jobs each year, from absolute credit closure to a current growth of up to 33% per year for the purchase of housing - I also remind you that the credit for SMEs increased by 13% last year - from a risk premium - I am sure you remember - to minimum interest rates and even in some tranches we are paid for our public debt; that prices have risen above 3% to a negative inflation that now preserves people's purchasing power and improves our competitiveness. In short, we have moved from the paralysis of economic activity to the establishment of a stronger and more sustainable new pattern of development. For the first time we came out of a crisis without devaluing currency and for the first time Spain grows and creates jobs without having to resort to external indebtedness. For four years we have had a surplus in our balance of payments, a fact that shows the transformation that has taken place in the Spanish economy. Well, the record of what has been achieved allows us to reaffirm our commitment to this country and our conviction in the way we govern, and also to affirm that if we do not allow political instability to undermine confidence and restore the democratic normality of a fully functioning government Spain can maintain the pace of job creation that leads to 20 million people working in 2020. Now we know we can do it and no one can doubt that we know how to do it. We have demonstrated this with our policies and the facts have shown this. Ladies and gentlemen, in the same way that I say this to you, I have always argued that much remains to be done, that there are fewer problems to be addressed and that we would do it more effectively if we had greater support, if we were able to share priorities and concerns. I believe that the investment agreement that we have reached with Citizens and Coalition Canaria responds to this objective and allows us to take advantage of our full potential as a nation to settle down as a top economic power. To this end, we must continue to strengthen those factors on which competitiveness is based in the global economy. I am referring to issues such as efficiency, sustainability, entrepreneurship or innovation. Efficiency in the functioning of the markets for goods and services to ensure the competitiveness of the economy and the unity of our internal market; efficiency also in the use of our resources to establish sustainable growth. In this area, energy policy must contribute not only to competitiveness but also to the fight against climate change. This must be the objective of the Energy Pact, which is part of the agreement we have signed with Citizens and which is open to the rest of the formations of this House. This pact will have to address the special needs of the Canary Islands in line with the work that we have been doing with the Canary Coalition and the Canary Government over the past year, and which is an important element of the Canary Islands' agenda; an agenda that, as you know, has as its core the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands and seeks to meet its special needs as a outermost region to strengthen its growth and social development. Ladies and gentlemen, betting on quality growth requires supporting and supporting leading and priority sectors such as agri-food, industry or tourism, and also supporting the entrepreneurial initiative as a real catalyst for economic activity and job creation. We believe that it is possible and positive to increase the incentives for entrepreneurship so that it costs less to start an activity and also to make it easier to maintain and expand it, because self-employed, entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs have suffered the hardest of the crisis and must be protagonists of recovery. Your effort deserves our recognition and demands our attention. That is why we want to promote new measures to support self-employed people, and to this end we have agreed: to address in Congress a reform of the self-employed contribution scheme with the aim of making it more flexible and appropriate to the specialties of each activity; also that they can compute their pension in the best conditions or fully match employment and pension, and that the flat rate be extended from EUR 50 from the current six months to one year. But we want to go further and not limit ourselves to supporting those who start, also those who want to grow, because with them the economy also grows. That is why new measures must be put in place that contribute to business development, eliminate regulatory steps and avoid regulatory burdens that discourage SME growth. We also aim to reduce the tax burden to those who invest in their development, as well as to ensure their financing and liquidity with special control over corporate lateness. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy is taking place today in digital terms and we need to adapt to its conditions and take advantage of its opportunities. I propose to you to move forward on our country's digital agenda to cover both the development of our communication infrastructures - which are already among the best in Europe - and the improvement of training in digital skills. The presence of SMEs in e-commerce or the digital transformation of our industry must be promoted, but we must also think of the digital economy as a sector in itself and facilitate the initiative of entrepreneurs in this area. We must encourage all digital content industries and services, which will be key in the future. We need to adapt to technological changes, but we also need to be able to lead them because innovation and research are the keys, ultimately, to solid and solvent growth. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing a national R & D & I pact to achieve the public investment target of 2% of GDP in all R & D & I activities by 2020. This national agreement for science and innovation must be accompanied by the encouragement of private financing by improving the current system of tax deductions and by recognition of the work of researchers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to increase the physical capital of our economy by investing in technology, equipment, infrastructure and innovation, but this is of no use if we neglect the education of young people and the training of workers. Training is the key to ensuring that economic growth truly translates into quality jobs and jobs. This is why we have agreed on a plan to tackle unemployment, which aims to make active employment policies more effective and which will promote a comprehensive training programme for the unemployed, using the form of checks-training, which allows each user to choose the courses most suited to their needs. In addition, fighting unemployment - which I stress must be our main priority for the coming years - forces us to continue to make progress in the efficiency and competitiveness of our labour market, to bet on flexicurity, to promote the creation of stable and quality jobs, and to facilitate their adaptation to the new technological framework and to the new realities of work. Without abandoning the reforms that have allowed us to change the trend in job creation, we propose the following: to reduce to three the modalities of the employment contract, to introduce mechanisms to reduce duality and to encourage indefinite employment, such as the extension of the contribution exemption to the first 500 euros of salary for four years, and to create a capitalisation fund for workers in a scheme similar to that which governs in countries such as Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I have explained to you my proposals for improving the functioning of markets, including work, support for entrepreneurs and the drive for training and innovation, but there are more elements that determine a country's competitiveness and quality growth. I am referring, for example, to the public sector. The management of public expenditure and revenue must aim at the greatest possible efficiency to share the benefits and burdens of fiscal policy fairly and to support growth; this has always been my position and my policy. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about public spending, we must always bear in mind our commitment to reduce the public deficit below 3% in line with the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact. It is a European and also a constitutional obligation, an indispensable condition for staying in the euro, but it is, above all, a conviction because one cannot spend what one does not have. We have already unfortunately known in Spain the consequences of ignoring that principle, and just as one cannot spend what he does not have, he must not waste the resources available to him. That is why during the last parliamentary term the Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations was set up, which has already addressed important changes in its functioning. My Government intends to continue this work with a comprehensive expenditure review that will help identify possible duplications and reduce unnecessary expenditure. As far as public revenue is concerned, I remain committed to continuing to reduce taxes on the Spaniards, particularly income tax, as economic growth is strengthened and our fiscal consolidation path is being fulfilled. As soon as we reach our target of reducing the public deficit below 3%, we will approve a 2 point reduction of the type of IRPF to be set between 18% in its lowest and 43.5% in its upper tranche. We will also encourage the revision of other tax figures to promote investment and avoid tax fraud and avoidance. In addition, within the framework of the reform of autonomous financing, we will have to analyse the tax revenues of its competition. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue, autonomous financing, is of vital importance when we are talking about the effectiveness of the public sector, and it is widely justified if we bear in mind the importance of the services provided by the autonomous communities: education, health, dependency and other social services that you know as well or better than I do. There is a need for a first-class consensus to achieve two things that all citizens demand of us: the first, equal access to the same level of quality of basic public services, and the second, ensuring stable and sufficient funding of the same that preserves them from contingencies such as electoral cycles, times of abundance or economic recession. That is why I offer all the parties in this House, and in particular the Socialist Party, which, like the People's Party, governs in a large part of the autonomous communities, that we open a negotiation to design together a stable model that preserves the equality and solidarity of all Spaniards also in receiving public services. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid some misunderstandings, it is important to remember how public money is spent in Spain. Of every 100 euros spent by the State, 63 euros are spent on social expenditure, 63: 26 euros on pensions, 14 euros on health care, 9 euros on education, 8 euros on other social expenditure and 6 euros on unemployment benefits. This is the reality of our public accounts and the reality of the Spanish welfare system, which is one of the best in the world and those here, ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to preserve and improve it. [[Applauds]] Let us think in particular about the pension system. We have already made efforts in previous legislatures, and through different governments, to improve their sustainability and we have had to face, in particular in recent years, the consequences of the loss of more than 3.5 million jobs with their corresponding social contributions at the worst moments of the crisis. Meanwhile, the number of pensioners has reached historical peaks, about 9.5 million, and the amount of pensions as well, we have guaranteed their update and improved them with an additional supplement to maternity. Never in the history of Spain had the pension budget exceeded 130 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to open the dialogue on the most important issue that we have in our hands, the dialogue to strengthen the public pension system with the aim of giving tranquillity to present and future pensioners and to announce that, if I receive your confidence as President of the Government, I will propose the immediate convening of the Toledo Pact to undertake this task. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are fundamental issues for the Spaniards that go beyond a session or a legislature. Pensions are one of them, they are one of the major matters of state, and we must therefore deal with them as required, with responsibility and high-mindedness. The same can be said of education. My will as President of the Government will be to open a dialogue with all political forces to achieve a national pact for education, an agreement that can and must be extended to all levels from primary education to the university itself. I am putting to you a pact that gives the education system the necessary stability and focuses on the acquisition of skills and the improvement of results to focus on generating opportunities and on ensuring that everyone has equal access to them. Nothing more. [[Applauds]] I am convinced that this will is shared by many who are here today. I think we all defend the right to education and we all defend the right of parents to choose how they want to educate their children. Our duty from the public authorities is to guarantee these rights and to work for an educational system based on freedom, equality and quality. [[Applauds]] This requires us to ensure access to the education system by strengthening the scholarship policy, ensuring attention to the specific needs of students, combating school dropout and failure and promoting co-existence in classrooms. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very aware that it is not possible to propose an improvement of our education system without having a fundamental part of it as teachers are. Thinking of them, we want to adopt a statute for teaching staff that improves access to and development of their professional careers. In this task we did not start from scratch, since in the last phase of government we have drawn up the White Paper on the teaching function, which will serve as a basis for improving the regulation of teachers' rights. Similarly, we have also made a strong commitment to improving and dignified vocational training by introducing dual vocational training in Spain, which allows young people to match learning with employment. Our goal in the coming years must be to create 100,000 places in this system. We must also agree at national level on the necessary measures to strengthen the Spanish university and improve its governance, funding and dynamism. The objective is a modern university, with quality and excellence, which addresses both the equity and the efforts of students and provides an appropriate framework for the development of the teaching career and research. I could talk, ladies and gentlemen, about many other issues, all of which are important when we are dealing with the welfare of the Spaniards and with our social protection system, but I would like to highlight among them the fight against the worst form of inequality, which is gender-based violence. I propose to you to reach a great pact against this violence against women, an agreement involving all parties, all administrations, all entities concerned and involving the whole of society so that together we can offer a way out and an opportunity to the victims. [[Applauds]] The sensitivity and commitment of all Governments and all institutions in the fight against this scourge is something that ennobles us as a country, but we will always be forced to go further as long as only one woman is a victim of this situation. Today, for example, they have free legal aid throughout the process that begins from the moment they seek help for the first time and they also have the tranquillity that not a single abuser has obtained a pardon from my Government, but much remains to be done. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, another of the main pillars of the government programme that I am submitting to this House today is the strengthening of our institutions. We are here thanks to the votes of the Spanish and our obligation is to strengthen the link between the citizens and their representatives. Allow me to make a first comment before dealing with this matter. The best way to preserve the confidence of the citizens in our democratic system - the best, I insist - is to fulfil their will, that of the Spaniards. And I'm not just talking about respecting the most voted option in the polls, but I'm talking above all about a previous principle. When the Spaniards vote, they do so to have a government and it is up to the elected ones, who are us, the obligation and responsibility to fulfil that mandate and not to defraud them again. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hardly think of any greater damage to Spanish democracy than telling the citizens that their vote has been useless twice and having to repeat the general elections for the third time. [[Applauds]] Respecting democracy is the first step in strengthening it. From there, all the initiatives that can be taken to really increase the confidence of the Spaniards in the institutions will count on our support. Corruption is being pursued today more than ever and the punishments are the highest that have been known. Our country is more transparent, we have tighter controls on the financing of political parties, new requirements for senior officials and we have put in place mechanisms to recover up to the last euro stolen by the corrupt. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] All this has already been done, but in this field the task can never be completed. That is why we have incorporated into the investment agreement with Citizens a set of measures that will further strengthen the demand and the exemplaryness in public life. The fight for regeneration must be an objective that binds us all and contains concrete commitments, such as the refusal to grant pardons to those convicted of corruption, in the same way that they are not granted to crimes of domestic violence or terrorism. I also propose regulating lobbies to safeguard the defence of the public interest at all times above any other consideration, strengthening prevention against corruption in public procurement and in the granting of subsidies, and greater control and transparency obligations in political parties. Although, ladies and gentlemen, we do not miss out on the fact that these proposals will only be truly useful and effective if they get the commitment of all political forces. In other words, the People's and Citizens' Party has also agreed on an ambitious agenda for institutional reforms. We are aware that in order to move forward, most of them need much greater support in number than both parties represent, but although our seats were sufficient to approve them, I must remain faithful to my conviction that the State affairs that affect the minimum bases of our democratic coexistence far exceed the investment agreements and require major state agreements. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we live in an increasingly demanding world; a world that does not wait for those who decide to contemplate the future rather than face it with determination. The Spaniards cannot allow their representatives, whatever the colour of their seats, to conform to being spectators of exception to events that affect their lives. We have a responsibility to those whom we represent, of course, but also in the international context in which our country has a voice and must exercise it. Ladies and gentlemen, let me reaffirm today the commitment of this Parliament and of the nation to which it represents with the European project and my firm will - I hope shared by the vast majority of you - to continue to participate in its consolidation. European policy is an area where I would again like to propose a broad agreement to reach agreement on the action of the Spanish Government during the next parliamentary term. Europe today faces several major challenges. The first, without doubt, is to overcome the crisis arising from the British decision to leave the Union. Secondly, to achieve economic growth that makes it possible to create jobs. Also the need to achieve a common, sustainable and solidarity-based migration policy. And finally, to strengthen our cooperation against those who threaten our freedoms, particularly jihadist terrorism. In all these matters, Spain can and must contribute its strong Europeanist vocation and its successful experiences. Spain - I insist - has much to contribute to the future of the Union and it would be regrettable if, because of the absence of a government with broad support, it could not take a leading position in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen, our full integration into Europe has been an indisputable factor of wealth and prosperity. I remind you that Spain is the fourth country in the world where per capita income has grown the most in the last forty years. Europe has contributed decisively to improving our infrastructure, raising the income level of our farmers, facilitating educational and cultural exchanges among our young people and so many other advantages that I do not think need to be enumerated because they are well known and valued by our compatriots. But Spain has also contributed to the design of the European Union today. Spain has been a diligent and active partner and always willing to offer solutions to improve the European project. There were numerous Spanish proposals which today are fully accepted European realities. I am referring, for example, to the principle of economic and social cohesion, to the concept of European citizenship, to the Euroorder of search and capture which I had the honour of promoting as Minister of the Interior during the Spanish Presidency of the Union in 2002 or to the Statutes of the outermost regions which we want to continue to develop here in collaboration with the Government of the Canary Islands. More recently, we have also contributed with important contributions to the design of the banking union and to new integration objectives, such as the common energy market, the digital economy, services or economic, fiscal and political union projects. Well, ladies and gentlemen, with that vocation, with that experience and with the consensus of the vast majority of Spanish society, we must take an active part in the process that is now opening up to give a new political impetus to the Union of Twenty-Seven. Europe has overcome all its crises with more integration, and this must also happen in this case. The Brexit crisis can only be overcome with a strong determination to remain united and deepen European integration. We must reconquer the vigour of the founding spirit of the European Union, which, despite all the setbacks, is the greatest area of peace, freedom and prosperity in the entire history of humanity. [[Applauds]] We must meet the expectations of our citizens, who must find in the Union the guarantee of their security, prosperity and hope for a better future, especially for the benefit of young people. I believe that this objective is widely shared by this House, and I therefore undertake to make the necessary efforts to maintain and strengthen the consensus that has always presided over European policy, regardless of the political sign of the various governments. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that foreign policy requires a necessary state vision and a sincere consensus to develop it. I do not think that much effort is needed to agree on the axes of our foreign policy: our historic relationship with Ibero-America and the renewed transatlantic link with the United States; collaboration with the southern Mediterranean, in particular with Morocco, on many issues - particularly some as crucial as security or migration management - and our commitment to democratic, economic and social development on the African continent. All of them have focused and must continue to focus on our international agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, this constant agreement in foreign policy is also essential to address a coordinated and consensual view of defence policy as a basis for the protection of our rights, our freedoms and human and democratic values. I propose that you continue to work on an effective response to the different cross-cutting risks and threats. I consider it essential to maintain an active role for Spain in NATO and to maintain our commitments to the common security and defence policy of the European Union, taking on the international responsibilities agreed with our partners and allies to ensure security and promote peace and stability. In this area, gratitude, full of pride, to all our compatriots deployed abroad for their work in favour of security, stability and peace is essential. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is the main threat to the democratic values of respect for human rights and essential freedoms that we represent the most democratic nations in the world. I propose to you to continue to promote a comprehensive and comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy by persecuting terrorists and their collaborators wherever they are, denouncing and persecuting any act of exaltation or tribute to terrorists and preventing with all possible means the spread and spread of their ideas and violent radicalization; a global strategy that involves us all, such as that contained in the current jihadist Counter-Terrorism Pact. I pledge that this pact will be the channel of communication between the Government and the political forces as a whole and the channel of information on developments and progress in this area, that it will also be the forum for reflection on future measures to be taken and, above all, the permanent reflection of the unity of the democrats in the defence of the life and security of the citizens as a guarantee of the full development of the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The Covenant against jihadist terrorism and the moral reference to the victims of any attack - their memory, their dignity and their testimony - must be our main strength in order to achieve the objective of preserving and improving our defence of freedom and our commitment to democracy. [[Applauds]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just outlined to you the main thrust of the political project for Spain which I am presenting to this investiture and which already has, as you know, broad parliamentary support. I thank again for the loyalty and collaboration of the Citizens and Canary Coalition parties, which have shown a commitment to the governability of Spain, which I would like to express, I repeat, once again to recognize. However, this project would not be complete if it did not mention the most serious challenge that Spain is facing right now. Ladies and gentlemen, as everyone knows, Spain is facing an explicit threat against its territorial unity, against the equality of the Spanish and against its coexistence. That is why the People's Party, Citizens and the other parties that support us have incorporated into our agreement the impulse of a pact for the unity of Spain and in defense of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the paradoxical and abusive challenge posed by the autonomous institutions of Catalonia cannot be attributed to Catalans as a whole. Fortunately, Catalonia is a heterogeneous, plural, very plural community. It is enough to recall the outcome of the last legislative elections on 26 June. Once again, we have found a well-known truth: that Catalonia is much more than independenceist politicians and that they could not achieve their objectives without causing a huge fracture in Catalan society. [[Applauds]] Do not misunderstand me, I do not say that we reject independence because few claim it, I say that its pretext, its strongest excuse, that supposed dissatisfied and neglected popular anxiety, lacks foundation. [[Applauds]] Nor is it true, as some argue, that the autonomy of the Spanish regions implies a quota of sovereignty that allows each of them to decide unilaterally matters that also affect the rest of the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not ambiguity. In political and constitutional terms, the only sovereign people is the Spanish people and nothing can undermine that foundation on which our entire democratic system is based. [[Applauds]] The Spanish people as a whole are the only sovereign. For this reason, any of its lords represents both the Spaniards of Cadiz and those of Valencia; we are chosen to represent full sovereignty. And this that I say now we have not invented this afternoon; this is so since the day of St Joseph of 1812, two hundred years ago - yes, of course, and you know it - when for the first time in Spain the supreme command, the power to legislate, that is, sovereignty, which until then belonged exclusively to the monarch, was assumed by the Spaniards, who ceased to be subjects and became citizens. [[Rumors]] [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] And all the Spanish Constitutions - when I say all I say exactly all, including the current one of 1978 - have done nothing but ratify that democratic principle. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what some are proposing is not a mere debate on the model of state or its territorial articulation, which for all that there are channels and scenarios, what we are considering here is the liquidation of national sovereignty and respect for the law, which is the democratic expression of that sovereign will. We are therefore talking about the rights of the Spanish, and the first of them - the first, ladies and gentlemen - is the ability to decide on their own nation, and no one can deprive the whole of the Spanish people of the right to decide on their future, neither the Government, nor this House, nor any other power of the State can do so. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, our first obligation - that of the Government, that of these General Courts and that of all the members of these General Courts - is to preserve national sovereignty and with it the unity of Spain, the equality of the Spanish and their fundamental rights. And it is not for the Government to interpret unity, and it is for the Government to defend it as understood by the Spanish and the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about unity, not anything. In every nation unity is the first of its values because it is the foundation of others, and in Spain too, because we have not invented unity in this legislature. The Spaniards have been part of the same nation, the oldest in Europe, for centuries, in which we have shared our history, our culture, our successes and our failures, mixing our blood and our destiny. [[Applauds]] Unity, therefore, is our best historical heritage, but also the strongest and most secure foundation on which to project our future. It is the house we live in, it is our strength, which allows us to forge projects and realize them, which opens us up in the world and the framework that houses our equality. But also, ladies and gentlemen, unity is what demands respect for the will that the Spanish have embodied in the Constitution, and as long as that will does not change, it must continue. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not want to and do not want to change it because together we are better, because unity also guarantees equality and solidarity between Spaniards. With this firm conviction I have acted at all times and therefore also, as President of the Government, I have done everything in my power so that no Catalan citizen could feel unprotected, preterred or forgotten by the Government of Spain. We have focused on meeting the real needs of Catalans - and of others, but also those of Catalans - because it is our obligation and because we care. And because the President of the Government of Spain - today I, in the future we will see - is also one of the seven million Spaniards who live in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, during the last parliamentary term my Government has maintained a complete readiness for dialogue and cooperation with the Generalitat. [[Rumors]] There are many areas in which we have worked together, many the benefits that have been generated and many the harm that such collaboration has prevented the citizens. We have avoided the default of the public debt of the Generalitat, we have guaranteed the recovery of its suppliers, including that of its officials, and today the Government of Spain continues to facilitate very advantageous financial liquidity mechanisms for the Autonomous Administration. Because we are equal and because we are supportive of all the Spaniards among us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia has always been a welcoming, fertile and warm land; a land that many Spaniards born out of there have turned into their home because in it they have found opportunities for a better life, to raise their children, to grow and to prosper. And so we want it to remain, because that capacity for reception and diversity is one of its hallmarks of identity and nourishes its enormous potential demonstrated over the years. I have always been willing to work with Catalans since the belief that Spain welcomes its diversity as a factor of wealth that we all benefit from: its language, its culture, its entrepreneurial spirit. I have always been willing also to seek formulas that better accommodate the necessary interregional solidarity; a fairer and more balanced union is undoubtedly a stronger and more lasting union. But, I insist, the first requirement - for no one to be duped - for any just solution is respect for the legality and rights of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the united, prosperous and supportive Spain I want and for which I am asking for the House's vote to invest. The thing is, as everyone knows, I just can't give the Spaniards what I think they need.Electors have arranged for the People's Party to win the elections but haven't given them enough votes to form a government alone. [[Rumors]] As is well known, I come to this investiture after having had a dialogue with all the groups that meet in this House. I have known the opinion of all of them, just as they all know mine. I have offered an open project to which I believe it is worth adding and which we can enrich by means of the agreement; a project in which all who uphold the principles embodied in our Constitution, the basic rules of our coexistence, belong. The results of my efforts, ladies and gentlemen, are well known. Today, in addition to the support of Unión del Pueblo Navarro, Partido Aragonés and Foro Asturias, with the support of the Citizen Parliamentary Group and the representative of Coalition Canaria. I thank both of you again for your responsible gesture, not only for facilitating the conformation of what is a large majority, but for having established agreements on which the government programme, which I have just outlined in general, is based. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that these agreements are not enough to complete a sufficient majority. This is equivalent to saying that the immediate future of Spain is pending what is decided in this debate, which means that if, in order to form a government, it is necessary to approve at least a simple majority in the second call and an absolute majority in the first, we are faced with a shared responsibility, inescapably shared, to which no one should be indifferent. Unless in this debate someone expresses the opposite, I must assume that we all want Spain to avoid a new election. Or is it that someone here is thinking of calling the Spaniards back to the polls? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u11	And how many times would I be willing to do that? I must believe, unless I am corrected, that we agree that the Spaniards expect us today to respond not from our partisan and dissenting values, but from those we all share with the majority of the citizens, to vote for us, that in the case of all it is the minority, or not to vote for us, that in the case of all it is the majority. If that is the case, ladies and gentlemen - and I firmly believe that is the case - all the groups represented here are co-responsible. We share the obligation to ensure the future of all Spaniards, a solidarity responsibility that we cannot avoid for free ever and less when it is not possible to seek an individual solution to conflicts. This is something that has nothing to do with the role that everyone plays during the future legislature, whether in the government or in the opposition. Obviously, there must be an opposition; I do not intend to be there, but there must be an opposition because someone must control the government. But for there to be an opposition there must be a Government; otherwise, it is not possible for there to be opposition. [[Applauds]] And since that Government will not come alone, it is clear that either we are working together to create it or there will be no Government or opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has known many crossroads in its history and this is one of the most serious we have experienced in the past 40 years. It is because of the challenges we face, because of the gravity and urgency of many of them, because economic recovery is at stake and because elections have never had to be repeated in our history or in Europe because of the lack of agreements between political forces. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in an exceptional situation, we all know this, and the important thing is that we know how to deal with it with that responsibility and interest in the service to the Spaniards that we are all showing. I appeal in a special way to groups that defend the values that the Constitution proclaims. I am referring to unity, sovereignty, equality of the Spaniards, strict respect for the principles of democracy, the defence of legality; in a word, those values that form the backbone of the basic consensus of Spanish society, on which our coexistence has been woven since 1978. Because these basic agreements weigh more, import more and force more than the countless differences that we could all exhibit at this time. And it is not the differences that count today, but the concordances. It will be time for differences once we have created the conditions for differences to be exposed. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist, we are living in an exceptional situation. We have to act accordingly and this responsibility is particularly binding on those from the Spanish Government who have contributed with different approaches to enlarging our country. What Spain as a whole wants is for us to be able to articulate the Government that the magnitude of the problems demands. If we do not, since we can do so and there is no viable alternative, it will be exclusively because we lack the will. What the circumstances demand at this time is that we all put ourselves at the service of consensus, which is as much as saying at the service of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I will gladly listen to the opinion of all of you, your willingness to resolve a problem that affects us all, and I hope that at the end of the debate we will prove that we have been able to put everyone's interest before the particular interest and, therefore, the Government that the Spanish are waiting for can leave here. In any case, I would like to thank you for the attention and respect with which you have listened to me. I appreciate how sorry I am. Now, you, as representatives of national sovereignty, have the answer. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-30-CD160830.u12	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. on Wednesday, 31 August. It was five and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
