ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We have just learned of the death of Ms. Rita Barberá Nolla, Senator of the General Courts. From here we want to convey our deepest condolences to your family, your relatives and friends. Let's keep it quiet for a minute. [[Ladies and gentlemen, standing up, keep a minute of silence]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u2	We now turn to the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. First, the one formulated by Don Antonio Hernando Vera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, good morning. I have chosen this first question in a monitoring session, Mr President, because beyond discussing official employment figures, there is an indisputable reality on the street, and it is that today in Spain on many occasions having a job does not mean that you can sustain the needs of a family with dignity. We find poor workers, without rights, with a part-time contract, with low wages and, however, with eternal days. Its model has been to replace indefinite employment with temporary or part-time contracts. If we combine wage devaluation and precarious working conditions, these have been the two main tools for improving competitiveness and growth. But tomorrow you have an important meeting with trade unions and employers, and that is why we ask you whether, in addition to listening to them, you are going to propose measures to reverse this situation of job insecurity, because that is one of my party's main objectives in this legislature: that this is a country in which to work to live decently, to be able to maintain a family and to have a just pension in the future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Look, the first objective of any employment policy is to create jobs. I would like to remind you, without prejudice to the fact that you do not like to hear the data, what has happened in Spain in recent times: in June 2008 - the second legislature of the Socialist Party - the number of members of social security begins to fall; until December 2011, 2,129,031 people stopped contributing to social security because they had lost their jobs - that is the greatest precariousness in the world of work -. The membership continued to fall during the years 2012 and 2013, because the crisis continued and because the measures do not take effect in a quarter of an hour but, from February 2014, things began to change and, since then, the number of members of Social Security - I speak of a period of time of less than three years - has risen by 1,639,000 people. Without a doubt, much remains to be done - the goal is to have 20 million Spaniards working -; we would certainly like the salaries to be higher, but it is not the government that sets wages but the agreement between trade unions and business organisations; we would certainly like more indefinite contracts, but I must remind you that three out of four people work in Spain with an indefinite contract and that not long ago the number was clearly lower. I therefore believe that we have improved the number of people working, I believe we have improved the situation of those who are working, and the objective is to continue to do so in order to ensure that there are 20 million Spaniards working in the best possible circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u6	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u7	Mr President, I think it is useless for us to talk about what happened two, three or four years ago; the issue is to solve the problem of job insecurity that workers now have. We are not here to protest but to put measures on the table that will resolve this situation and that is why we will propose in the coming months and weeks that collective bargaining be recovered as an instrument to redistribute income, that causality be recovered in temporary hiring, to reverse the harmful effects of its labor reform on the unilateral modification of working conditions and, yes, to recover wage incomes - raise wages, speaking in silver - mainly through collective bargaining, but also through the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. Look, Mr Rajoy, in the last seven days you and your group have won audible defeats in this House, although you have also sometimes won; you have lost when you have been left alone and won when you have rectified your policies and negotiated with the rest of the groups: last week in gender violence and yesterday in the Toledo Pact. Therefore, our conclusion and yours should be clear, Mr Rajoy: change policies, dialogue, negotiate, not so that your group does not lose in this House, that this is not of the least importance, but so that the workers of this country improve the quality of their jobs and receive decent wages. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u8	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u9	To talk about what happened, Mr Hernando, is not useless, because we have to see where we started and where we came from and we have to see, therefore, what results have been achieved over a certain period of time, because that is what allows us to say whether the policies that were practiced during that particular period of time were effective or not. I think they have been effective, because jobs are now being created, and a lot, in Spain and because the situation of indefinite contracts is increasing more and more. There is no doubt that much remains to be done, but nothing is resolved, as I have said before, in a quarter of an hour and that is why I think it is appropriate to maintain the policies that have been done in these years, simply because they have worked and now what it is about to persevere in them. From there, you propose whatever you want me to, of course, I'm willing...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]] - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE CURRENT SITUATION OF THE WORK MARKET IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u11	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to the President. Go ahead, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u12	Thank you, Madam President. President of the Government, next week we will present to this House the first law of Citizens, the law of urgent measures for the self-employed; 3.5 million Spaniards will see how we worry, in the first law that presents Citizens in this House, about self-employed workers. I would like to thank you for the Government's support for this law, as you have committed yourself, so that we can move forward and reform the self-employed regime from above, a first step, no doubt, for entrepreneurs in this country. But I wanted to ask you today precisely about the workers on behalf of others, about the workers who are suffering, about those 4 million unemployed in Spain, about those 7 million workers who are going to work every day and are poor, who do not reach the end of the month and, ultimately, about the main problem of Spain, which is not only unemployment, but also precariousness. Mr Rajoy, you know that on 14 September 2016 there were important resolutions of European judgments in which the Spanish and the Spanish working system were amended from above, and they told us that there could be no difference between fixed and temporary workers in compensation. Mr Rajoy, I ask you: what is the Spanish Government going to do urgently to adapt to European legislation, comply with those judgments and protect the rights of temporary workers in our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. Indeed, we are going to support the approach you have taken; without a doubt, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people is one of the major concerns, because in small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, almost 80% of our country's self-employed workers work. I am now asked about the workers on behalf of others and, in particular, about a very timely matter, which is the recent resolution of the European Court. What we have done has been to set up a working group in which they have appointed, both business and trade union organizations, their representatives to see how we are going to apply this sentence in Spain and to see if there is a need to amend any law in order for things to be done according to the sentence in the most reasonable way possible for all workers on behalf of others. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u16	Thank you. Look, President, he says that the precarious situation of temporary workers cannot be permanent. I put a case to her: a worker in a hospital in Madrid who chained eight temporary contracts in a row. Curiously, the most precarious job in Spain is the Public Administration, and it cannot be; we cannot have people chaining temporary contracts one after another with uncertainty. The average number of contracts in Spain is fifty-four days, Mr Rajoy. What future has a family or a person with a fifty-four-day job, who chain contracts one after another without any future? What I am asking you, Mr Rajoy, is a reform from the top down, a reform that does not patch up the situation. The reform you have made is a patch to the situation, and I would ask you to make a comprehensive reform, a reform, in short, that will put an end to this data. Look, we are European champions in the unemployment rate; Spain is at the forefront, along with Greece and Poland, in precariousness. Mr Rajoy, I do not want to settle for being Europe's champion of unemployment or precariousness, and I ask you, please, that we urgently address labour market reform together because neither the PSOE nor the PP in the last 30 years have been able to. Our model has been a real failure and I believe that the time has come to modernise the Spanish labour system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u17	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. I do not intend to put any patches on, what I intend is that the decisions taken by the Government and this House are as justified as possible, and that is why it seemed to me as sensible and reasonable to instruct a group of people, appointed not by me, but by various business and trade union organisations, to give us an approach both to the Government and - if they want - to this House to resolve this matter and to give a solution to the judgment of the European Court. On the other hand, you do not want to be a champion of unemployment or precariousness and neither do I. Good proof of this is that the fundamental objective during the last parliamentary term of the government that I chaired was to create employment; good proof of this is that, when I submitted myself to the investiture in this House, I said that the most important objective for the next four years was to create employment, and good proof of this is that, after five years of recession and continued destruction of employment in Spain, we have turned the situation around with the policies that we have implemented and today we have been steadily increasing employment in our country for three years. What's left to do? No doubt, I agree with you on that, but you have to admit that some things have been done. For example, the year 2015, according to the EPA published at the time, was the year in which more employment was created in Spain in the historical series. That is a positive fact, we are going in the right direction, we are going to continue working together and we are going to try to achieve the objective that, on the other hand, is common: that there is more employment in Spain and let us soon end the precariousness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u19	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTOR OF ROYAL PILAR NOGUERA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHAT ARE THE OBJECTIVES THAT SPAIN HAS MARKED TO COMPLETE WITH THE CONTENT OF SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION 2242 ON WOMEN, PEACE AND SECURITY, ADOPTED BY UNANIMITY IN OCTOBER 2015? [[File number 180/000014]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u20	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation by Mrs Pilar Rojo Noguera of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. First of all, allow me on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to congratulate you on your appointment as Minister of the Government of Spain and wish you every success in the difficult but exciting task that you have entrusted. As you know, fifteen years after the adoption by the United Nations Security Council of Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security, a landmark resolution, which involved the incorporation of a gender perspective into the analysis and resolution of armed conflict, and from then until October 2015, a total of seven Security Council resolutions have drawn attention to the need for this gender approach and, above all, to the crucial active role that women can and should play in building and consolidating a lasting peace. In recent years, Spain has made a sustained effort in this area, and an example of this was the adoption in 2007 of the National Plan of Action involving several ministries for the implementation of this resolution, which we also know is currently being updated. But the best example is undoubtedly the incorporation of the agenda on women, peace and security into Spain's priorities within the framework of the Spanish presence of the United Nations Security Council. In October 2015, the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, presided over the meeting at which resolution 2242 was adopted unanimously by the fifteen members of the Council, updating and supplementing the resolution adopted fifteen years ago; a meeting with unprecedented participation. This was the first time that a President of the Spanish Government presided over a debate in the Security Council, thus marking the importance that Spain attached to the revision of this agenda, making it one of the priorities of its foreign policy. And we know that this will involve the assumption by our country of new commitments and new objectives that have not been envisaged so far. That is why, Minister, I am asking you the following question: What are the objectives that Spain has set itself in order to meet the content of Security Council Resolution 2242 on Women, Peace and Security, adopted unanimously in October 2015? Thank you so much for your answer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u22	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I thank you for your words of welcome to Congress. As the honourable Member has rightly pointed out in the question, Resolution 2242 was adopted unanimously on 13 October 2015 under the Spanish Presidency of the Security Council in an open debate chaired by the President of the Government. You yourself recalled that the debate had one hundred and one speeches, an absolute record in the history of the Security Council, and the resolution was co-sponsored by seventy countries. This demonstrates the enormous interest that aroused the topic and also demonstrates the success that Spain has had in making the women's, peace and security agenda a priority during our stay in the Council in the years 2015 and 2016. This is a priority that is not new, but that is part of a long journey under governments of different signs and that will continue to be projected in the future. In order to comply with Resolution 2242, we are launching a good number of actions at both the international, multilateral and bilateral levels and at the national level. At the United Nations, we have established the informal group of Security Council experts on women, peace and security that we co-chair together with the United Kingdom. It is a question of moving from a conception of women as mere victims of armed conflict to the consideration of women as an essential actor in the prevention and resolution of such conflicts. At the same time, we announce a contribution of EUR 1 million to the women's, peace and security agenda. We have also launched the network of focal points on women, peace and security that will meet twice a year and will hold its first meeting in Spain in the first half of 2017. On the other hand, I announce that next month, during our last presidency of the Security Council, we will hold a high-level debate on trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation in conflict situations, which also seeks to meet one of the objectives of Resolution 2242. At the national level, the second National Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325, the predecessor of the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MRS ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCÍA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: DOES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE THINK TO COMPLETE WITH BUDGETARY OPACITY IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE? [[File number 180/000010]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u25	Questions to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mrs Isabel Rodríguez García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u26	Thank you, President. Mrs Cospedal, for the Socialist Group, defence and national security are a matter of state, but this does not prevent us from rejecting opacity, a declared unconstitutional opacity that you have maintained in your Government in the management of the Ministry of Defence budget. In particular, I am referring to the extraordinary credits in the special modernisation programmes. That is why, and as I imagine you are not going to resort, as Mr Rajoy has done, to the inheritance received from Mr Morenes, I ask you how you expect to remedy this situation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u27	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u28	Thank you, President. Your Honor, first of all, I have to deny you the greatest. We cannot talk about the opacity of the Ministry of Defence's budget, when the budget has been processed in the field of the State General Budgets and debated in this House, and when the decree-laws, to which you indirectly referred, have been debated and validated in this House, by the way, the last processed as a bill. Furthermore, I must also remind you that the provisions of the Contingency Fund for peace missions have been informed and information has been given in this House on time. Therefore, the assertion of opacity, I have to categorically deny it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u30	Your Honor, I'm not saying that, the Constitutional Court has said that. We do not discuss this expenditure, we are not even against it. We are aware that our armies need to modernize and equip themselves with new capabilities, better capabilities, modernizing their structures, more intelligence and better means. We know that they are complex processes that need time for their development and for their financing. What we do not share is this opacity, I insist. We want transparency in terms of acquisition and payment. We want these investments to be operational, effective, in the service of the Armed Forces and the defence of our country. Your Honor, I insist, what we reject is how it was done in previous years. And for those who don't know him, I'll explain it to him, see if we can understand it. Look, this is the graph of these expenses of special modernization programs for our defense. [[shows a graph]] This is an initial budget, which comes through General State Budgets, and this is the deferred budget, which brought us with extraordinary appropriations to this House by decree-law, i.e. deferred payments in the form of extraordinary appropriations. This is what we do not share and this is what the Constitutional Court told them it is in-cons-ti-tu-cio-nal. This is what we are rejecting and wishing you to rectify. Minister, I wish you better in the management of your ministry than you have in the management of your party. I ask you to forget about the payments in A, the payments in B, the contracts in arrears and to devote yourself to carrying out the task entrusted to you effectively and rigorously. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u31	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u32	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I repeat, of opacity nothing. The Constitutional Court's ruling is that the decree-laws may not be the most suitable figure for processing extraordinary claims, and I will not deny that the decree-laws of 2014 and 2015 could have been better justified. Look, I was hoping for another behavior talking about national defense, but, well, hope is the last thing you lose, Your Honor. I intend to persevere in having the best intention of being able to talk to the Socialist Group about a matter as important to the national interest as national defence. I will not talk about subsequent payments, but I will say that the Government chose to pay for things that had not been paid. Perhaps the best procedures were not used through decree-laws, but one billion euros had to be paid that had been pending since 2010 and 2011 in an industry such as defence, which generates a high added value in research, development and innovation and creates 20,000 direct jobs and 50,000 indirect jobs. In addition, we have to pay our suppliers and our national and international partners. We'd rather pay. There are others who prefer never to pay, but we prefer to do so. [[Applauds]] Now, I am not going to make this a question. What I want, since we share the fund, although of course never the forms, Your Honor, is that, as you proposed in your electoral programme a law for multi-annual payments in the field of national defence and we also included as an objective in our programme the possibility of drafting a law on stability and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S LEFT, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE THINK TO RECOGNIZE THE MILITARY GAS? [[File number 180/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u34	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Defence, the question is brief and simple: do you think of a state with 750,000 families without income, with 800,000 people without health care, with 32% child poverty, with 500,000 evictions in the last six years, with 13 million poor, reducing military spending between real and camouflaged figures to EUR 17,465 million? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u36	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the answer is brief and simple: No. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u38	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u39	My answer is even simpler. Now get out on the street and tell people to eat bullets and sleep in tanks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u40	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. I understand that in this area, as in many others, demagoguery is a very comfortable resource. I get it. And I also understand that there are times - an important part of the ladies and gentlemen will agree with me - when the situation forces us to reaffirm the obvious, to make reaffirmations of the obvious, Your Honor. It is obvious that today we are not experiencing such dramatic moments as in other times of history, but it is true that we are suffering the possibility and threats of certain regimes that want to undermine the freedom and security of the free world, of those that we believe in principles such as the freedom and equality of all citizens, totalitarian regimes, whether ideological, cultural or religious, gives me the same, and populisms that seek to end our system of values. It is also obvious to try to defend ourselves and for that the defence costs are absolutely fundamental. In 1939 Orwell referred to the reasoning and reaffirmation of the obviouss, especially when there are many lies in the environment, but it is also an obvious that there can be no freedom, equality among citizens, guarantee in the enjoyment of our freedoms and in the exercise of our rights if there is no security and today our security is threatened. This is not something I say, but it is said by all the nations of the world, by all the international organizations to which Spain is a party and by all the responsible governments. Because it is known that a responsible Government has an obligation to use its defence to enable citizens to enjoy their rights, to guarantee the welfare society and the economic structures that maintain that welfare society, and to guarantee sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. This is so obvious that not only do I say it, but also an organization that... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MIGUEL ANGEL HEREDIA DÍAZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WILL YOU SUPPORT THE GOVERNMENT IN THIS LEGISLATION TO LOCAL ENTITIES FROM A POINT OF FINANCIAL VIEW? [[File number 180/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u43	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia Díaz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the priority of socialists is that people live better, live where they live, in towns or cities. That is why, Minister, I ask you whether in this legislature you are going to improve funding for municipalities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u45	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Heredia, because you're asking a very clever question to start a control session. During the 10th Legislature the government of Mariano Rajoy has clearly supported the Spanish municipalities by preventing any of them from breaking. Now that they are healthy - and we must publicly acknowledge the excellent management they have done - one of the main projects for this legislature is to reform local funding in our country and improve it in parallel with the funding of the autonomous communities. I am convinced that your parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, will work together and we will work together to ensure that the municipalities of Spain have the best possible funding. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u48	Mr Montoro, you have carried out the most brutal attack in the history of democracy on municipalism with your local reform. It has especially crushed the small municipalities. You didn't listen to the mayors, not even the people's party. You did not listen to the recommendations of the Council of State. You didn't listen to anyone, absolutely to anyone, because what you really wanted was to privatize services and do business at people's expense. You approved a supplier plan with tremendous, huge interests, which caused banks and large companies to win but suffocated the municipalities. Now the municipalities to pay the plan have to raise taxes or throw workers on the street. My group's proposal is to postpone that payment. You also imposed a rule of spending that made the municipalities that had the accounts cleared - which were the vast majority - and even money in the bank could not carry out the expenses that people asked of them. People wanted investment plans, employment plans and strengthening the welfare state. None of that was possible, and I am asking you here today if you are going to meet the demand of the FEMP to make this spending rule more flexible. The last thing your Government has done has been to commit to Brussels to shut down all the deficit municipal enterprises and we are talking about a list of more than three hundred. The last thing I ask you, and I would like you to answer me, is when you are going to carry out that pact reached between the People's Party and Citizens to cut the budget of the parliaments by 1 billion. I ask you this because at the moment there are more than 62,000 workers in our country's parliaments who are concerned. That's a hatchet for the rural world, it's a hatchet for the people. I'm done, Minister. Today, we, the Socialist Party, propose to your Government a great local pact in defense of the municipalities and in defense of the people, agreed with the FEMP and with all the political parties, and in which the municipal competences and funding that our municipalities need and deserve are defined. Minister, change your policies. Stop thinking so much about banks and big companies and worry about how truly important people are. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u49	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Heredia, I don't know if you know those carpenters of the towns of Jaén who have charged 60,000 euros that the city council owed them for years or the locksmiths of those small villages. Thanks to the Supplier Plan, 400,000 self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises have been charged in Spain. I am pleased to introduce you, even if you say that, since we are never on the street, we do not know you. Having said that, I will also remind you that it was you who signed with Citizens the abolition of the deputies in a pact that Mr Sánchez intended to carry forward to reach the President of the Government: to suppress the deputies. But with regard to the future of the parliaments, I will give you all the peace and quiet. The deputies carry out an absolutely necessary work, vital, for so many small municipalities of the rural world in Spain. Therefore, of course we will continue to work to make this work more and more effective. Finally, regarding the future of the reform of local funding, forget about the X Legislature if you want, Mr Heredia, and let's go to this one, let's get on with it. Offer your cooperation; you will see that this is positive for the political stability of the country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERJON, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNISH TO MAKE THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION FORMULA IN MAREA: IS IT SURE THEY PLANT A REDUCTION OF THE GASTO TITLE IN APPROXIMATION 3,000 MILLION EUROS? [[File number 180/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u51	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, we have been getting to know in the last few weeks, in the last few days, different rumours and contradictory statements, so taking advantage of the opening of parliamentary control in this Parliament - which has cost us - in this House I would like to ask you whether it is true that the government is proposing to reduce the expenditure ceiling by at least EUR 3 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u53	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Errejón, I also find it very useful, very appropriate, the question that you put to me and simple to answer, because you know that this is not easy in parliamentary terms. In relation to the initial appropriation of the 2016 budget, the Government approved the non-availability of EUR 2 billion in this year; therefore, EUR 2 billion that we do not spend, that we save. We then decided to close that budget in the middle of the year, saving another billion more than, together with the savings from the public debt interests that we are fortunately getting in our country, we already add up to 5 billion more. Therefore, from the initial appropriation of the 2016 budget we have saved, without reducing social benefits, without affecting social spending, 5 billion. So, those 5 billion less must be the starting point for the state spending limit in this new year that we started, because we have saved it and we need to keep saving it for the future in order to meet that deficit target. Mr Errejón, I would like to show you the best willingness so that we can talk about it in terms of negotiating with your political group on the draft budgets for next year. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u56	Thank you for the explanation, Minister. Then a second question arises for me. What is the objective of your fiscal policy, if there is any objective? Over the past five years we have seen him regular and unregulate, amend his own guts, take steps and then undo them. We have seen it with corporation tax, which has become a greasy cheese for large companies in our country to pay much less or not to pay, unlike their European partners. As you know, we are seven points below the average tax collection of the countries in our environment, and we now see you correcting the reform yourself that you did. We have seen it with the tax amnesty, which shamed all Spaniards by making some of those who had not contributed with the national effort pay 3% when a bread bar pays 4%, and yet you raised half of your own forecasts. We have finally seen it, with its milk accounts, budget accounts designed to arrive at the elections with a clean face but that even the European authorities have told you that they were not true, that you distorted the accounts or did them wrong and that you are waiting for the more than 5.5 billion euros that you promised them in cuts. Therefore, as I say to you, my question is whether there is any objective in your fiscal policy beyond a permanent game with numbers that has to do with amending your own dips, which has to do with a leak with respect to your own puffs. I would like to give you a warning or a parliamentary recommendation, if I may, and an assertion. The parliamentary recommendation is that you treat your investiture partners better, because by continually correcting them it leaves them in a permanent bad position and so they will last very little. The assertion is that things can be done differently. Airef itself has made it very clear that cuts prevent growth; even the OECD has said that cuts go against growth. You talk about a spending roof and we want to talk about an income floor. You reverse the practice, you reverse the prism and make a comprehensive tax reform and make sure that the social state... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Errejón, for the recommendations on how to treat partners in Parliament. Thank you very much. I would also like to convey to you that if you kept the word given every time it is negotiated, the very political negotiations that take place through relations with the Government would acquire more seriousness and rigour. [[Applauds]] And I say the same to you about the municipal sphere and in all aspects, because it is not the members of Podemos who are most characterized by keeping their word. Fiscal policy serves two purposes: to properly finance public services and to promote job creation in Spain. That is what we are getting with this fiscal policy, that we have public services at the level of the developed country, as fortunately is Spain, and that more and more Spaniards have more opportunities to work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN BRAVO BAENA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE LAST STATISTICS AVAILABLE ON TAX RECOVERY? [[File number 180/000018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u60	Question by Mr Juan Bravo Baena, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me to take advantage of my first participation in this House, following my ceutí origin, to publicly thank Minister Montoro, the outgoing Secretary of State, Mr Ferre, and the rest of the political formations that recently, as a result of the approval of the new fractional payment of corporation tax, Royal Decree 2/2016, would be pleased to take care of the specialties of the economic and fiscal regime envisaged both for the Canary Islands and for Melilla and Ceuta. It is true that it was an act of tax justice, it is true that it was about demanding the same effort from all companies, but I can assure you that from the extrapenisular territories this special sensitivity is appreciated for the Canary Islands, Melilla and Ceuta. Taking advantage of this monitoring session, I would like to raise three questions with Minister Montoro on tax collection. Firstly, in the fight against fraud, and highlighting the phenomenal work done by all the officials of the Tax Agency, let us remember that we have achieved historical results: more than EUR 50.4 billion in the fight against fraud, which amounts to about EUR 12.6 billion a year. Well, minister, we would like to know whether the results currently available and the forecasts by the end of the year will allow us to continue along the path of those historical results. Secondly, in what would be the approval of Royal Decree 2/2016, which provided for a recalculation of the split payment for companies that invoice more than 10 million euros, there were revenue forecasts. As the second split payment has already been made, we would like to know the results and forecasts for the third split payment. Finally, and in the area of tax collection, I think it is fair to acknowledge the effort made by the ministry and the rest of the national territory through which we have managed to increase tax collection from 2011 to 2015 by more than 12%, which has meant raising 161 billion euros in 2011 and over 182 billion euros in 2015. Can we say, Minister, that despite having lowered taxes for 2015 and beyond, we are going to continue on the path of growth in tax collection with the data we currently have? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u62	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Bravo. Indeed, I can confirm this morning that the collection of taxes puts us in a positive scenario that reflects the continuity of the economic recovery that Spain is experiencing and that obviously moves in the increase of tax revenues. The evolution of taxable tax bases, despite the fact that we have not had inflation - which undoubtedly diminishes this tax revenue capacity - is very similar to the rate already achieved in the previous two years, with increases of around 2.5%. It is significant to note that this increase reached 3% in the second and third quarters, well above 0.9% in the first quarter, which was due - I insist - to the decline at that time in energy prices in particular and to lower corporate profits. In the case of VAT, the data reflect the robustness of domestic consumption, which means that in the third quarter of the year VAT is growing to 4,9 % and, in particular, VAT from SMEs is growing by more than 7 % in the period January to September. Another reasonable reason for optimism is the fact that the wage mass has also increased by 5.1% until September, with employment creation above 3.5% in recent months, while the split payments in IRPF for individual companies grow above 13%. It should be noted that, in reality, there is an ever-growing economic recovery in the self-employed and in small and medium-sized enterprises. With regard to the collection of corporation tax, the Government's forecast is that, once we have already found the income of the second corporation payment, of the split payment, we will be able to fully comply with the collection forecast that led to the change of the split payment system. In short, tax collection, in fact, reflects the economic recovery and settles the reduction of the public deficit in our country, which... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u64	Thank you very much. - OF MR MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: Has the Minister considered any measure to reduce tension in the CIEs? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u65	Question addressed to the Minister of the Interior of Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u66	Thank you very much, President. Minister for the Interior, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your recent appointment and, in turn, to ask you whether you have considered any measures to reduce the tension within detention centres for foreigners.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u67	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u68	Thank you very much, President. Mr Legarda, as you are well aware, detention centres for foreigners are an essential and effective instrument for the control of irregular immigration, always respectful of human rights and in accordance with Spanish law and applicable international law.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u70	Thank you very much, Minister, but you have told us nothing about a measure that we consider essential to better manage tensions within the CIEs, which is the withdrawal of police officers from the National Police Corps from the supervision and custody of the CIEs' internal regime. We believe that their task should be limited to the perimeter and external surveillance of these centres, and we call on them to entrust those functions to properly trained civilian personnel. It is the way to manage the high level of stress and fear experienced by inmates; their psychological feeling of failure and anger; their distrust of institutions; their reactions of anxiety, insecurity, defencelessness and distrust. In the CIE environment tensions are served. Managing this situation requires a lot of left hand, a lot of emotional intelligence, a lot of sense of proportionality, a lot of endurance. This properly trained and selected personal demand, and we do not select or train police officers for these tasks, but for others, such as the prevention of citizen security, the investigation of the illicit and the judicial disposal of their perpetrators. The police are neither selected nor trained to manage the internal regime of the CIEs nor, by the way, the prisons. Moreover - and this is a very important point - the police are perceived by the inmates as the cause of their situation and not as mere custodians, because the police arrest them, transmit their files, the interns, transfer them, the custody, punish them when appropriate and, if necessary, punish them, and finally transfer them to the plane that deports them. Minister, it is almost impossible for police officers to adequately perform the monitoring and management functions within the CIEs. Replace them with civilian personnel and I assure you that tension will decrease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u71	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Legarda, I would like to inform you and all the members of this House that the maximum stay limit in the CIEs in our nation is sixty days, a figure significantly lower than that of the rest of the countries in our environment. I can also say that the occupancy rate is 42.40 % and I think it is appropriate to point out that in the last five years the stay in these centres has been reduced. I can also provide you with another data: revenue, as we apply much more restrictive criteria, has also decreased from 11,325 in 2012 to 6,930 in 2015. But it is true that in recent weeks there have been several incidents in some CIEs, of which there has been complete information and transparency from the Ministry of the Interior and specifically from the Directorate-General. I believe that, as the security protocols are being reviewed right now, appropriate measures will be taken, and I would like to remind those police officers who have also been seriously injured, specifically in the latest incidents at the Murcia CIE. That is why, once all the criteria have been assessed, a number of decisions can be taken, which will also be shared with the spokesmen of this House because we want to be able to establish the best public service, especially in the light of human rights and, of course, the legislation in force. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u73	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF FELIX ALONSO CANTORNE, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: HOW DO YOU THINK THE GOVERNMENT RESOLVE THE RAILWAY CAUSES THAT AFFECTS CATALUña? [[File number 180/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u74	Questions to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr Félix Alonso Cantorné, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u75	Thank you, President. Minister, Friday was the first day that the R-16 line, which goes from Tortosa to Barcelona, arrived on time. Congratulations, Minister! The railway chaos in Catalonia comes from afar and the studies carried out by the Chamber of Commerce, platforms, local and Catalan administrations point in one direction: the lack of maintenance and investment. The problems that rail traffic accumulates in the sixth metropolitan area of the European Union have its epicentre in the network of neighbourhoods and regions, and not in the AVE, where you allocate 67% of the budget. How does the government intend to resolve this?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u76	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Alonso, but let me very much disagree with your assessment. Services and transport, infrastructure in Catalonia, are a priority for the Government of Spain. We have spent EUR 11.2 billion in Catalonia since 2012 and in this legislature we will continue to drive especially the railways in Catalonia, to which we have also allocated EUR 3.7 billion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u79	Clearly, we live in another country. In the period from July 11 to October 11, the R-16 line, Tortosa's, accumulated twenty days of delay, twenty days! The users of the trains in southern Catalonia suffered a calvary, they knew when they were leaving, but they didn't know when they were arriving. Images like this, of the people trapped in the middle of the route, walking along the tracks, by bus or pressed in the wagons, were a constant. [[shows the camera an electronic display device with images]] It was an insult, a contempt for citizenship, that uses the train to go to work, to examine or to go to the doctor. It is the finding of a failure, of the failure of a model that bets on by the minority that uses the AVE and forgets the vast majority that are users of proximity and regional. In 2015, ADIF recorded 302 incidents more than a hundred minutes late, 29% attributable to infrastructure. In February 2009, an ambitious Barcelona Roller Plan agreement 2008-2015 was signed, which provided for an investment of 4 billion, of which only 10 per cent were implemented seven years later. In the Camp de Tarragona and in the Terres de l'Ebre regional services are the most used by citizens, with three million passengers per year. The conventional train has lost 21% of passengers in Tarragona, the city station loads a thousand people less every day than ten years ago, the journeys are slower than in the last century; they are killing the railway. When we talk about the right to decide, we talk about people's rights, about everything that affects us every day. The government must complete the Barcelona Roller Plan and approve an urgent investment plan for the lines... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u80	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Mr Alonso. Your Honor, for the approximately 1,600 kilometres of the railway network of the service in Catalonia there are 1,130 trains every day. The changes to which you refer in the timetables are precisely associated with new infrastructures, new investments that we are undertaking and, of course, that is our goal: to work to improve the quality of service. There is nothing wrong with publicly apologizing to those who may be affected by these incidents, but it is also good to remember that for every train that runs that has an incidence there are other 1,129 that circulate and that do not have them. It is also good to remember that travellers continue to rely on this train movement, since in the course of 2016, long distance and high speed passengers have risen by 4.6% and in close proximity by 1.2%. Is there room for improvement? Yes and we agree - I think all - that we have to make an important investment, as is already being done in the Mediterranean corridor, where we have certainly invested in recent years more than 6,350 million euros - investment that we will continue in the sections from Tarragona to Vandellòs and from Vandellòs to Castellón - and also in the Plan of closeness. I want to give you a figure that I think will do you good, 40% of the investment we make in this country in the vicinity we do in Catalonia. Indeed, we have a current plan. I have already had a first contact with the adviser and we are already planning a meeting in the next few days so that we can go to Catalonia and come up with a new agreement on a new rolling plan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u82	Thank you very much. - OF THE MIGUEL BARRACHINA ROS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT DO ON THE PLAN OF INFRASTRUCTURES, TRANSPORT AND LIVE? [[File number 180/000016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u83	Question by Mr Miguel Barrachina Ros, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the People's Group wishes you the greatest fortune in your new challenge, that will be the success of our transport, our infrastructure and our housing. You, as a road engineer, know better than I that Spain is the first nation in the world in kilometers per inhabitant at high speed, after China the second nation in kilometers at all, and that our entire network, with closeness, has 465 million passengers with a high level of satisfaction, 30% more than five years ago. We also enjoy in Spain the highways that have grown the most. We are the first of the 28 EU countries to grow in kilometres of motorways. And the fifty airports of general interest allow almost two hundred million passengers to enjoy Spain, we are the third host country of passengers. Our ports, the 28 ports of Spain, are the first in the Mediterranean and the third in the European Union. However, Spain - the nation that creates the most jobs in Europe, the one that grows three times more than the European average and that will receive 75 million tourists - needs more. That is why, rightly, the then Minister of Fomento, Dona Ana Pastor, presented a plan of infrastructure, transport and housing capable of mobilizing 75 billion euros in these areas of transport and also activate a state plan of housing until 2016 that will allow dozens of thousands of Spaniards to realize this right to a decent housing. For this reason, Minister, knowing that Spain enjoys a good supply of infrastructure by land, sea and air, and also with a higher level of security than the German, French or Italian, I ask you what opinion you deserve under the current Infrastructure Plan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u85	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Barrachina. Indeed, infrastructure and transport policy, which is a key element in improving the competitiveness of this country, needs to co-ordinate our territory and do so from the point of view of equality between all Spaniards, while also seeking the greatest efficiency and therefore the greatest economic and social profitability for projects, in order to connect us to Europe through quality infrastructures within the framework of this trans-European transport network, which is to be operational in 2030. Allow me also, ladies and gentlemen, on my first day here in this House, to stress the very important impetus that the President gave as Minister of Development to this Plan for Infrastructure, Transport and Housing in a context of enormous economic difficulties. What the Government considers today - and it is also agreed in the Committee on Development in this House - is that the time has come to reach a national pact for transport and strategic infrastructure, which must be a political pact; that it must be a social pact, of course; that it must be an economic pact because, obviously, if we do not have budgets, it will hardly be worth anything the agreement that we reach between the different political groups, and that it must be an institutional pact that defines our transport and infrastructure policy and that complements that transport network of general interest to the country. I am aware that achieving such a pact is not easy at all, but I am also convinced that with the willingness of the different groups to engage in dialogue, difficulties will be overcome in achieving it. Our intention is to articulate this pact around three instruments: the Commission for Development in Congress itself, an institutional forum with the autonomous communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and a forum with the different actors in the infrastructure and transport sector. In the ministry we will try to draw up a starting document that will allow the debate to begin and speed up the implementation of the agreement. That is why this week we have already started the first contacts with different political groups, with different autonomous communities and with representatives of the sector; a pact that must also be transparent and open to society in order to be extremely participatory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u87	Thank you very much. - OF THE DILVIA SILVIA HEREDIA MARTIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER FOR EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHAT MEASURES HAS THE GOVERNMENT TAKEN TO RESPONSE TO THE CASES OF ACOUSE AND ABUSE IN THE HOUSE? [[File number 180/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u88	Question addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport of Mrs Silvia Heredia Martín of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, families, educational communities and society in general are concerned about the cases of violence and abuse that are taking place in the classrooms and that have recently been made public; cases such as that of my province, Seville, but also those of Alicante, Pontevedra, Cádiz. According to the data and also the statistics, 30% of children and adolescents who are victims of school harassment do not tell their parents, and 10% do not tell anyone. We all believe that education should promote and encourage intercultural attitudes, democratic values, and above all respect for fundamental rights. That is why everything that happens in the field of co-existence of our classrooms, everything that happens in our schools and in our schools is important for the formation of the personality of the students and, of course, for the emotional balance of the faculty. Spain, as a Member State of the European Union, is firmly committed to participating in the process of improving our education. In addition, the electoral programme of the People's Party of the past elections reflects a very important commitment, which is to improve coexistence in our centres through a new coexistence plan that allows us to fight this harassment and defends, of course, the rights of students and teachers. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you from the People's Group what measures have been taken by the Government to respond to the cases of harassment and abuse that are taking place in our classrooms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u90	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u91	Madam President. Mrs. Heredia, thank you very much for your question. The Government and the Autonomous Communities, which are also competent in this area, have developed a number of measures to ensure a climate of respect and coexistence in the classroom because we share with the educational community the responsibility for ensuring that educational institutions are safe, free from violence and inclusive. And allow me a personal restraint. As soon as I got to the ministry I was very impressed to come to Lérida to give a decoration to the parents of a professor murdered in Barcelona, Abel. I saw the desolation in his classmates, his students. At the sectoral conference with the Autonomous Communities held in August, I said that I would present a school co-existence plan that would reflect the practices and measures taken in many Autonomous Communities of Spain. In January, I submitted a report to the Council of Ministers covering a whole series of measures ranging from a protocol of cohabitation to the parents' guide, the state register of cohabitation, the annual state congress of cohabitation, teacher training itineraries and the state network of zero tolerance to violence. Therefore, we are on it. Many of these measures require legislative impetus and being in place was not possible to put it into effect, but it was possible to do something that was put in place and that we were carrying out in our electoral programme, which is the telephone service against bullying and school abuse. It has been in operation since 1 November, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, three hundred and sixty-five days a year; it is anonymous and free and, although we have only twenty-one days, the figures are good: 933 cases of school harassment that we have transferred to the competent authorities. We are therefore working on this, ladies and gentlemen, because we want above all one thing - I think we share this with all the members of this House - that harassment and abuse at school should cease to be a silent cry, that it should be a cry with lungs to end it, and I am convinced that within the education pact in Spain, which I hope will be launched in a subcommittee next week, the school co-existence plan, as you said very well, will be an important factor because we will guarantee teachers and families and we will create free and equal citizens in rights. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u92	Thank you. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN'S PATRICIA BLANQUER ALCARAZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO AFFAIR THE DEFICIT OF SOCIAL SECURITY TO GUARANTEE THE PAYMENT OF PENSIONS? [[File number 180/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u93	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mrs Patricia Blanquer Alcaraz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u94	Minister, repeat in office with outstanding subjects and a suspension in the management of the social security deficit. Each year it has placed it at the worst of the results, nothing to do with the strongest years of the economic crisis: in 2015, 16.7 billion euros. To cover them and pay the pensions, he has left the Reserve Fund to be drawn by spending more than half of the resources. Of course, the good inheritance received has been good for him, despite so much criticism, for in five years the savings have been spent on ten. At this stage, and if we don't fix it soon, by the middle of 2017 he will have completely broken the pension hedge and will no longer have the fund he has used so much. He found it with more than €66 billion and he will have left it at zero, so now it's his turn to manage his own inheritance and he must take action now, because so far he hasn't done his homework. What is most urgent right now is that you tell us how you intend to deal with the social security deficit, especially because you will no longer be able to take over the Reserve Fund in a few months' time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u95	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, if you want us to talk about data and rigour, I would ask you to reflect on it and also to have a little humility, being you from the Socialist Group, and I say to you why: in 2011, when we arrived at the Government, in the area of pensions, we found that the system was already in deficit; in 2011. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u97	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u98	The pensions of our elders were frozen, for the first time in our democratic history and we had more than 5 million unemployed in Spain. That was the legacy left to us by the Socialist Party. I thought your speech this morning was going to be different, because I'm staying with the good of yesterday. We must send a message of calm and confidence to pensioners from here with responsibility, because their pensions are guaranteed in the medium and long term. No one denies that we have a temporary deficit problem, temporary, and you know why, because 70% of the financial deficit that the system has today is due to the loss of jobs: 3,300,000 jobs destroyed during the crisis and all - the first government - are committed to policies that favour job creation in order to guarantee today's and tomorrow's pensions with employment. I told him that I am staying with the best of yesterday, which is the constructive dialogue, with the open hand of all groups in this House to, together, maintain and improve our pension model. That is the compromise and I also hope for the Socialist Party. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u99	Mrs. Blanquer.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u100	Minister, after listening to you carefully yesterday, what I'm trying to do today is make sure you're not mistaken in the diagnosis. It is so true that the public pension system is strong that its Government has weakened it. Look at the latest data available: contribution income in 2015 fell by 8% while affiliates grew by 3.18%, and this is because the job that is created is not accompanied by good pay. [[Show some graphics]] They have created precariousness, wage devaluation, stagnated the inter-professional minimum wage, encouraged partial contracts, made workers poorer and pensioners poorer as well. So if today you want to give a message of tranquillity, correct, rectify your labor reform, leave widow's pensions, reductions and rates alone stop financing them with Social Security and most importantly: it creates the conditions for creating new, qualified and quality jobs. Social and political agreement? Yes, but, of course, we are not going to mask your mismanagement of a structural debate which in part you have also provoked. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u101	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u102	Madam President. Mrs Blanquer, the good news is that the guarantee of pensions in Spain is economic growth and above all employment, quality employment. Look what has changed in Spain: today in Spain we have recovered half, 1,600,000 jobs from those destroyed by the crisis; today in Spain for each new pension there are seven new jobs; in 2011, for each new pension three jobs are destroyed. And we will all continue to work together, the Spanish society, the social partners and I am sure that all political groups too, to create jobs and better jobs every day in Spain. That is the security right in our pension model. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u103	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONCERN SOLUTIONS TO THE STATE OF STRUCTURAL LABOUR PRECARIEDANCE COMBINATING THAN 20 % UNEMPLOYMENT WITH MORE THAN 3,500.000 PERSONS COVERING LESS THAN 300 EUROS per Month? [[File number 180/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u104	Question by Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, what does the government intend to do to combat insecurity?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u106	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the government is working every day to create jobs and better jobs, quality jobs in Spain. He told his partner that today in Spain 2,100 jobs are created a day, something that did not happen when we arrived at the government, that 1,500 jobs were destroyed every day. We have recovered half of the jobs destroyed by the crisis and we have a long way to go. But I also want to say one thing: today in Spain, three out of four people working have an indefinite job, 75%, seven points more than at the beginning of the crisis. We aspire to further increase that level of employment stability among all, including in the social dialogue. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u109	Madam Minister, I do not think it is necessary for us to deceive ourselves or to torture statistics, we all live in our reality, in our neighborhoods, with our neighbours, friends, in our own lives. The labour reform adopted by the People's Party was not a reform to create jobs, it was a reform to destroy existing jobs, it was a reform so that precariousness could be extended and it has been achieved, only the data - only that data - of what is happening today must be taken into account. Today almost one in two Spaniards earn less or less than 900 euros; almost one in three Spaniards earn less than 300 euros. And, minister, I'm not talking about numbers, I don't want to talk about abstractions, I'm talking about lives. I imagine that you are aware that it is impossible to form and sustain a family with 300 euros per month; it is impossible to pay diapers, it is impossible to pay textbooks, it is impossible even to pay the rising fees in college. You can try, you'll see how you don't get it, you'll see how life projects are breaking down by the policies you're implementing. You just have to realize how difficult it is for so many people to see how expenses grow, how the prices of medicines grow, of the fundamental goods to be able to live, and the inability, with low incomes, to sustain them. It is not merely a labour issue, it is a question that extends to everything. You can imagine what it means to go to a supermarket and have to buy the cheapest brands, the most greasy food, the most harmful food. You've been a minister of health for a while, you'll understand what I'm talking about. And you will also know that in our country right now it is easy to distinguish a child, a boy or a girl, of a popular class of one high class, you just have to look at his teeth, because the family does not have the capacity to pay the orthodontics and everything that is not covered by Social Security if it is entering 300 euros a month, if it is lucky, because it is one in three. I am not saying this to you for abounding in known data, but I am saying this to you because you do well many times to understand and see yourself as technocrats, as technicians, but when you pass laws you cause these effects in reality. When they press these buttons and when they approve labor reforms they cause the social majority to be impoverished and in circumstances in which it is simply impossible to live. Their reforms cut wages and cut lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u110	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Garzón, I ask for rigour in speaking in this House. In Spain the minimum wage is 655 euros. No one pays below that salary in Spain because it would be illegal and I invite you, if so, to report it. As far as you're concerned... [[Rumors]] Quiet. Interprofessional minimum wage, eight hours a day, forty hours a week. No one charges less than 655 euros. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u112	I ask you to remain silent because we must listen to those who are taking the floor and I hope that I do not have to repeat it once again; at all times, but especially in the questions. Please, please, if you don't, leave the plenary room. Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. He told him that in Spain a worker who works full-time earns at least the minimum interprofessional wage of 655 euros. If someone enters 300 euros a month, it is because they have tax revenues, they only work a few days a month, or they have income or income for that amount. Therefore, I ask rigor not to confuse wage surveys with tax income surveys, which is to which you are referring in your intervention. Secondly, this Government and any Member of this House want to see more and better jobs, better wages and businesses becoming more and more competitive in Spain and, of course, the Government, Your Honor. I tell you more, wages in Spain are not set by the government by a royal decree, but are decided in collective bargaining between companies and workers, and I ask you to respect collective bargaining. The social partners are negotiating new wage increases for next year and I hope that they will continue to respond to the competitiveness of companies and also to job creation in Spain because we need to continue to create 500,000 jobs per year. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY ON THE CALL'PLANA TARIFF' FROM 50 EUROS FOR AUTONOMOS? [[File number 180/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u115	Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, an entrepreneurial country, a country that innovates and creates opportunities, is a dynamic country, a rich country, a living country, a country that has a future and prosperity. These are some of the qualities of self-employed workers, self-employed workers and entrepreneurs in our country who risk and create opportunities in society. It is therefore logical that an effective Government and a responsible Government should pay particular attention to these workers. During the governments of the Socialist Party, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, ladies and gentlemen, 570,000 autonomous people were destroyed in Spain, more than half a million people closed their businesses and severely hit our country's economic structure and, of course, our country's capacity to grow. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Government of Spain from the very beginning was placed as a priority to care for self-employed workers, and that is why a great deal of work has been done since 2011 to reverse this situation. Today, ladies and gentlemen, more than 140,000 autonomous people have been created in our country. At the end of 2011 the situation was impossible, the improvement of situations from the point of view of the payment fund to suppliers, the capitalization for unemployment and, of course, the regulatory framework related to rules such as express licensing or the Market Unit Guarantee Act or the Youth Entrepreneurship or Entrepreneur Support Act have been vital for this recovery. Among them, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a particularly effective measure which has been the flat rate of EUR 50 for the self-employed. It is a measure that the Government has already expanded from six months to one year, it has been part of the negotiations with the Citizens Group and it has been part of the first package that the Government has adopted in the first Council of Ministers. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we ask the Minister for Employment and Social Security her assessment of this measure, which has frankly and in a very effective way supported employment, which is the flat rate of EUR 50 for self-employed people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u117	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Echaniz, thank you very much for your question. The first thing I want to do is to thank the autonomous, the entrepreneurs of Spain for their commitment to our country, because they have been the first protagonists of recovery during this severe crisis. Therefore, the first thanks and, as I said, commitment, commitment in the past legislature and commitment in this legislature. The past legislature, thanks to dialogue, understanding and agreement with these autonomous organizations, launched a measure - which you have pointed out - which was very important to start new business projects, the flat rate of 50 euros for Social Security to start an economic activity. That measure, which we have developed in dialogue with the autonomous, has given more than a million Spaniards the opportunity to start this entrepreneurial activity. I would also like to stress that it has been a powerful driver of employment among young people, because four out of ten people who have benefited from this flat rate of EUR 50 have been young people under the age of 30. What does the government want? The Government wants to continue to support the self-governing, because they are very important in our country. There are already 122,000 more self-employed than five years ago and they are also creating a lot and good employment. In order to continue to support them, we have reflected with the autonomous organizations and we also agreed last August with the Citizens' Group to extend this flat rate from six to twelve months, so that we can consolidate these businesses and continue with economic activity and job creation. For the country, for Spain, commitment to the self-governing is paramount. And that is what we are going to continue to do, and that is why it is no coincidence that the first law we are going to send to this House, the first decision of this government, is precisely for the autonomous. We also want to continue to strengthen social protection measures, such as access to cessation of activity or, for example, compatibility between employment and pensions between self-employed people, because for them it is a guarantee of maintenance and improvement of their businesses. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u119	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA PILAR LUCIO CARRASCO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT EMERGENCY MEASURES IS GOING TO TAKE THE GOVERNMENT BEFORE THE PROBLEM OF ENERGY POVERTY? [[File number 180/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u120	Questions to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. First of all, a question from Mrs Maria Pilar Lucio Carrasco of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Today is November 23, 2016. Tonight the minimum temperature has been reached in the province of Huesca, 8 degrees below zero. At this time, when winter is approaching, there are more than 5 million people in this country who know that this year, again, they will not be able to maintain an adequate temperature in their homes. Minister, what urgent steps will the government take to solve the problem of energy poverty? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u122	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Lucio, in Spain, as you know, we have a number of different competences between different administrations to address the problem of energy poverty. The question arises from a case that we all know, which occurred in the town of Reus, a very regrettable one, but for which there were many mechanisms that were already in place. There was an autonomous law, which precisely provided for this situation, an autonomous fund, also a municipal fund, social services that catered to this person and yet there was a cut in supply and that cut in supply was probably the cause or had much to do with the fire of that house. What I want to say to you with this is that, despite the fact that there are administrations that have means and that put them into operation, there are things that we still have to learn from. And here we each have our responsibilities. At the state level, we have the energy policy, which started with the social bonus. The social bonus was launched by the Socialist Government as a result of a Community directive, but it is now a judgment which has endangered its financing. In this we need cooperation from all parliamentary groups so that this social bonus can be improved and financed. Here I would like to place you and the other Members of Parliament at a meeting as soon as possible to see how we can deal with this. I would like it to be tomorrow if it is possible to have a first impression of the different views of the political groups to see how we can face the social bonus. There are other issues of autonomous and local competition, although it is true that we need a better relationship between state policy and regional and local policy, not only because of this case, but because of the general relationship that exists between the energy system as such, which is what belongs to us as General Courts, and the social competences of the autonomous communities and local corporations. At tomorrow's meeting I will be delighted to hear the proposals that the different groups want to make. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lucio.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u125	Mr Nadal, welcome to the first line of government that has generated more inequality in the last democratic stage. You are the heir of a disastrous energy policy, whose bitterer face on these dates is energy poverty, beyond the case of Reus, Minister. Fighting it is a matter of social justice and I will tell you that it should be an honor for you from your sector to help eradicate a poverty-related issue that has been largely caused by all austerity policies, but I see you prefer to throw balls out. In fact, it should be an obligation for you to give a prompt response to vulnerable families, without looking elsewhere and taking responsibility for the capacity you as a minister have to change it. We demand that you immediately give a winter truce and avoid light cuts by default; we demand that you coordinate with the autonomous communities and the municipalities that are already operating, avoiding the suffering of many families who cannot pay those expenses. I announce that by the end of this session the Socialist Parliamentary Group will again register a proposal for a law on the protection of vulnerable consumers and against energy poverty, a proposal that we could be debating today if it were not because the government vetoed it. Minister, a veto does not fix the problem; only political will is needed, which is what has not been so far. Prove you really want a change. Give the debate and dialogue an opportunity and do not veto the initiative again so that this Parliament can pass this law as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u126	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u127	Mrs. Lucio, the reproaches don't come to light. If I wanted to blame you, your irresponsible energy policy has raised electricity prices in our country by 70%. It is better to talk about dialogue and how we can improve the situation. There are many things that can be improved. In his bill there are things that are very good, but what I don't think is that the taxpayer should pay it, I think the sector should pay it. I don't know if you agree with me on this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u128	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Melisa Rodrigez Hernandez, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT MEASURES VALUE TO ENCOURAGE THE GOVERNMENT TO COMPLETE THE COMMITMENTS ACQUIRED TO AVOID THAT PERSONS IN VULNERABILITY CANNOT PAY THE FACT OF LIGHT AND GAS? [[File number 180/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u129	Question by Mrs Melisa Rodríguez Hernández, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u130	Minister, one of the points of the agreement with Citizens - I quote textually - asked: To freeze part of the electricity bill that depends on the government and strengthen the protection of the social bonus, ensuring that all vulnerable consumers have access to it. How does the Government intend to do so? What measures will the Government take to meet these commitments and to prevent people in vulnerable situations from paying the bill for electricity and gas?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u131	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. It's true that that's in the agreement, you and I negotiated it. Moreover, it coincides with what we both had in our electoral programmes, with which it was not difficult to agree. We need to give the social bonus a boost and guarantee it. That is very important and there is a Supreme Court ruling - I said yesterday - that the Government has challenged. It has made an incident of nullity because it believes that it should have been decided by the Court of Luxembourg. There is therefore a funding problem that needs to be addressed. The social bonus was improved in its day, in 2013, and we have about 7 million people under it. We'd like to improve it and perfect it. We have already started discussions on this with you, and I would also like to see if we can have that meeting tomorrow and begin to pool the different positions of the political groups on how to guarantee this social bonus and how to improve it. This is most urgent, since there is no discussion that it is within the scope of the General Courts and State policy, because this is clearly the competence of the State. Then we have the autonomous competences with which we all have to be respectful. They are exclusive competences in the social sphere, and here we have to see how we can improve the interrelationship between the competences of the State and the autonomous competences. I believe that we all agree on this issue, and tomorrow a very fruitful dialogue can be started with an immediate result: with a normative area to guarantee the social bonus and to study ways of collaboration with the autonomous communities and local corporations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u134	As we speak of realities, I tell you that one in ten households in this country is in a vulnerable situation. As you know, energy prices continue to rise, in particular by 22 %, butane by 23 %, light by 34 % and water by 8.5 % more. The European Union has made it clear: Directives 2009/72 and 2009/73 oblige Member States to regulate and legislate in this area and Spain has not done its duties. I don't want to talk about who's responsible, but the reality is that homework hasn't been done. The only gesture made by the national government was Royal Decree-Law 13/2012, which is not enough. It basically serves no purpose, because it does not say how to alleviate this situation, nor does it define how to recognize people in vulnerable situations, nor does it guarantee that these cuts do not occur. You know that today companies have the power to make a cut, even in winter, if people have a accumulated debt of six months. The drama of Reus has brought the debate to today and has shown that the fat of the Administration makes the protocols impossible to apply. The answers in which one blames another and no one assumes responsibility have been shameful. We need a national law and we hope to count on everyone. A step has already been taken on 5 October in the Committee on Industry, Energy and Tourism, in which almost all the groups voted in favour of an initiative on energy poverty and social bonus; I say almost all the groups, because neither Podemos nor Esquerra Republicana voted in favour of this initiative. Problems that seemed like yesterday we're debating them today, because they're still a reality. Let us not, ladies and gentlemen, allow this debate and today's reality to remain a reality tomorrow because we do not do what is right. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u135	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u136	Mrs Rodríguez, the first thing to reduce energy poverty is to make energy prices more affordable. The electricity bill for an average Spanish household has dropped 110 euros since 2012 and, the butane candy, has dropped from 17 euros to just over 13 euros, which to what is now, that is, there is an effort on the part of the energy industry to lower those prices. We also have to make an effort to meet two types of collectives. Vulnerable people in general, with the social bonus. As I was telling you, we need to take better care of those 7 million people and, if we can improve it, much better. Then there are those who are in severe vulnerability, that is, those who have such a level of poverty that they are below the level of care. They have to be identified by the social services of the autonomous communities and the Constitutional Court has told us that they are autonomous competence. Therefore, we have to support large groups with state competence, which is that of these General Courts, and people in a situation of severe vulnerability with social services... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GOMEZ-REINO VARELA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT MEASURES DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO ADOPTION IN CONNECTION WITH THE INTENTION OF THE EUROPEAN IMPOSURE UNION SPAIN A MULTIPLE OF 46,5 MILLION EUROS FOR ENJOYING THE RUBBAN WATER DEPURSION STANDARDS IN 17 URBAN AGLOMERATIONS FROM ALL STATE? [[File number 180/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u138	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. First of all, question by the deputy Don Antonio GómezReino Varela of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u139	Good morning, Minister. What measures does the Government intend to take with regard to the poor treatment of wastewater?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u140	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honour, the dossier referred to in your question concerns the requirements for the collection and treatment of urban waste water in thirty-eight agglomerations of more than 15,000 inhabitants. For the time being, Spain has not received official notification of this request from the European Commission. We'll analyze it when it arrives. In any case, the ministry has been working for a long time on all the actions in which the General Administration of the State can intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. GómezReino.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u143	Madam Minister, in 1991, when this Member was eleven years old, twenty-five years ago, the European Union, in agreement with the Member States, adopted legislation on waste water treatment. In 2011, ruling the Socialist Party, the first ruling of the European Court came, sanctioning that the treatment of waste water did not occur in the Spanish State. In 2016, this year, the European Commission is demanding a fine of €46.5 million. Your Honor, we don't believe your good managers. You, who, even if you have rotten apples, systematically say you're good managers, you're the ones putting us in these fines. Its expenses and fines are expensive for citizens. The public services of citizenship could be better. With the €46.5 million that we are going to pay, there could be in this country and in this year fifteen more health centers; with the €171,000 that we have to pay daily there could be in this country two more lung transplants, according to the Galego Health Service. That's the data that matters to the citizenry, Minister. You are irresponsible politicians. Firstly, because they put at risk the public health of the more than 1,400,000 people living in these areas. Secondly, because of pollution, irreversible already in many cases, of our rivers, our rivers and our seas. And thirdly, and not least, because they are putting at risk and putting an end to jobs in key sectors, in my country in fisheries and shellfish, but also in other areas of the state, such as Andalusia or the Canary Islands, in key sectors such as tourism. We always tell you, cuts are expensive, also in the environment, and the transfer of responsibility they make to citizens is absolutely infamous. In addition, we want to tell you that it's been five years, its management is bad and in Europe it always puts us on the side of losers. You accept all the regulations that go against citizenship and yet you skip all those rules that go for citizenship and the environment. Our laughs, ma'am, are not sold. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u144	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, it seems appropriate to recall that public supply and sanitation services are the competence of the municipalities, in accordance with the Law regulating the bases of the local regime, which also provides that the autonomous communities may provide assistance to these local corporations in exercising this competence. The General Administration of the State can only act in those works which are declared to be of general interest. Of the thirty-eight agglomerations included in the dossier which alludes to, thanks to the work of all the administrations, we have moved to seventeen, where it is necessary to implement measures to improve the treatment of waste water. Of those seventeen the ministry can only act in seven; in all of them we are working and six are completed or close to it. Improving water quality has been a priority for the previous government and remains a priority for it, not only with the aim of complying with European directives, but also to preserve the good state of water ecosystems which, I can assure you, are now better than five years ago. Therefore, given the situation found in 2011, which was not the best - it also combines to remember -, the first thing we had to do was an audit in all the autonomous communities to know the actual state of purification in Spain. This has enabled us to prioritize the investments to be implemented, which have been reflected in the Cuenca plans approved by the previous Government, something that should also be done and not been done. As a result of this audit, it is the responsibility of the State to promote eighty-six actions that will benefit more than 5 million inhabitants. To this end, the Government has already approved the Growth Plan in 2014, with an investment of more than €1 billion in purification and sanitation. We have already launched seventy-three contracts worth EUR 250 million, forty-four already tendered. As far as we are concerned in 2016, eighteen have been awarded for a total amount of 77 million euros. As far as the ministry is concerned, I believe that these data clearly show that purification is a priority for us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u146	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA LUZ BAJO PRIETO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT HAPPENED TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PARTICIPATION IN THE FIELD OF MARRAKECH CLIMATE, CELEBRATE THE PAST WEEK? [[File number 180/000020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u147	Question by Mrs María Luz Bajo Prieto, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, last week COP22 ended in Marrakech, where it became clear that the fight against warming, the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient model is irreversible. A delegation of parliamentarians had the opportunity for two days to check on-site the development of the Climate Summit and to see how difficult and complex it is to bring almost two hundred countries together. The President of the Spanish Government, Mariano Rajoy, was also in Marrakech at the Conference of the Parties to express the Spanish Government's commitment to combating climate change. He reiterated the Executive's intention to draft a climate change law that would capture all the commitments and instruments necessary for the Spanish economy to become a low-carbon economy, which would grow and create jobs. It is no coincidence that the President's first international trip was the Marrakech Summit, and it is no coincidence that the first step taken at the first Council of Ministers was to send the Paris Agreement to the Courts for ratification by the urgency procedure. I would like to stress that only three European countries were present at the Summit of Heads of State attended by Mariano Rajoy: Spain, France and Portugal, an event that should be positively highlighted as a demonstration of Spain's sensitivity and commitment to the world's greatest environmental challenge. For the Group of the European People's Party, it is clear and demonstrable that Spain has met Kyoto, which is on track to meet the 2020 targets; it has signed and will ratify the Paris Agreement shortly; and it has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% without having to resort to the purchase of rights and, for the first time, measures are being taken to mitigate climate change within our borders. I mean, there's a before and after in our country's climate change policy. Thus, from Zapatero's famous phrase at the Copenhagen Summit that the land is nobody's but wind, we have become a respected country that fulfils its international commitments. Madam Minister, the People's Group wants to know what the Government's participation in the Marrakech Summit has been. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Following the agreements adopted less than a year ago in Paris, the Marrakech Climate Summit had two main objectives: to define the work programme that would enable the Paris Agreement to be launched and its timetable and to highlight the initiatives that are already being promoted by non-governmental actors within the framework of the so-called Global Climate Action Alliance. As part of the international negotiation for the implementation of the Paris Agreement, Spain has, as you have said, been represented at the highest level. The President of the Government has been present, as he did last year in Paris, on the day reserved for heads of State and Government. In addition, the delegation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, which I myself led during the ministerial segment of the summit, has actively participated in all the negotiating sessions with daily presence in the coordination meetings to establish the position of the European Union. With regard to the second objective of the COP, on global climate action, we have participated in numerous events related to areas of enormous importance for combating climate change. I would like to point out some of them, which, in time, allow me to mention: in the area of water, we have adopted the Action Plan for the 5+5 Strategy of the Western Mediterranean, to promote national or regional projects, strengthening the link between the Water Agenda and the Climate Change Adaptation Agenda. The Minister of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda also attended COP22 to sign, together with Morocco, Germany, France and Portugal, a political declaration on energy exchange to facilitate trade in electricity from renewable sources between Morocco and the European internal energy market. We have participated in various events related to agriculture. I would like to highlight the first meeting of the 4 x 1000 Initiative consortium, launched by France, to which we have acceded from the outset and which aims to boost the role of agriculture in the fight against climate change. We have held the annual ministerial meeting of the members of the Ibero-American Network of Climate Change Offices to strengthen the ties of regional cooperation in this area. In addition, we have participated in the high-level event organized to promote global climate action in which we have put forward sustainable solutions in sectors as important as water, energy, infrastructure or agriculture. We have witnessed the launch of the Alliance of Climate Change Plans, to which we have acceded, to cooperate in the implementation of national commitments presented by countries under the Paris Agreement. We have also joined the statement of the Because the Ocean initiative, which aims to enhance the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT ARE THE GOVERNMENT'S CRITERIA FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMISSION ON THE VALUE MARKET? [[File number 180/000013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u152	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mr Pedro Saura García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what criteria have you followed to make the proposal for the appointment of the new president of the CNMV? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u154	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the criterion is that of the Securities Market Act, which was also a law passed by a socialist government, and that is to look for a competent and expert person in the securities market. This afternoon you will be able to check it out, since you have the appearance in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we have no doubt about the professional capacity of the person you are proposing, but we do have doubts about your profile. And we have doubts about his profile, basically, because his last twenty-five years this person has spent advising listed companies. Therefore, we doubt the profile and doubt that it can effectively perform its function. In fact, it is a conflict of interest, perhaps permanent. It's a moving conflict of interest. It's probably a swivel door backwards. In 90% of his decisions, of the decisions of the CNMV, he will have to abstain. Minister, what things have to happen in our economy, in our country, to change the functioning and appointment of regulatory and supervisory bodies, with a financial rescue, with the suffering of people, with the preferences? What else has to happen in our country? We need a change in the uses, in the modes, in the way these managers are appointed. We need new legislation and we need new governance. That is what the Socialist Group is going to do and what it is going to propose in this House. Regrettably, again, what you, Minister, have done is to bet on pastries and not on the economic and democratic regeneration that our society and our economy needs. The Spanish and our economy deserve regulation, more modern uses, more homologable to the rest of Europe, of course with weights and counterweights, and that the last word be given by the Congress of Deputies. We are going to vote against it, because it seems to us that it does not have the right profile; because it seems to us that it is not good for the democratic regeneration and regeneration of the Spanish economy. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u158	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saura, as you know perfectly well, you voted against the previous chairman of the National Securities Market Commission, saying that she was a politician and that she had no knowledge of the securities market. We now present a person who has no political connotation and who is a deep expert in the securities market. Look, or one thing or another, Your Honor, but be clear, please. But I don't think it's a matter of people's characteristics as much as of the lack of judgment, from the point of view of choice. This afternoon, the candidate will go to the Economics Committee and will raise a lot of caution and guarantees, from the point of view of avoiding the conflict of interest with the law firm in which he worked, including that he will never return to that office. Look at you. And you, despite all that, are going to vote that you do not know that you are a remarkable expert in the securities market. That's your criterion. You can talk to me about democratic regeneration or what you think, but you really are a person who, without any political connotation, is an expert in the securities market and who will pose all kinds of guarantees and precautions to avoid a potential conflict of interest. You are also speaking to me about a new system to elect the senior officials of the agencies and the sectoral commissions, on which I can agree. I agree that there is a growing need for transparency, professionalism and involvement from Parliament's point of view. But, Your Honor, you also know that what we need from time to time in this dialogue is to have a clear criterion on your part; to have a stable and reliable interlocutor - if you will allow me to express it - and viable to reach compromises. I am absolutely open to talking to all of you about a new mechanism for the election of senior officials, but I will tell you one thing: please maintain a consistent and stable approach to this, and you will have no doubt that this minister will be willing to talk to the Socialist Group, just as he will be willing to talk to any other group in this House about how this situation should be improved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u160	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARINE CARMEN DUEÑAS MARTÍNEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONFERENCE, FORMING THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT INITIATIVES ARE GOING TO ADOPTE THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY IN THE MATTER OF GENERAL VIOLENCE? [[File number 180/000019]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u161	Question addressed to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality of the deputy María del Carmen Dueñas Martínez of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I want my first words to be an exciting memory for the thirty-nine women who have been cowardly murdered by their partners or ex-partners in what we have been doing for the past year, for the twenty-five children who have become orphans and also for their families. Madam Minister, we have made significant progress in this struggle over the last decades, recognized and praised progress in our European environment, and we have done so since unity, dialogue and consensus, which was already present in the adoption of the Comprehensive Law on Gender Violence and which we were also able to see last week in the commitment made by all parliamentary groups to reach a state pact in this area. We are aware that much remains to be done, but the truth is that this government, in the X Legislature, launched for the first time in Spain the strategy for the eradication of violence against women, a strategy that develops different initiatives, different measures to advance in the eradication of this social scourge. We have intensified prevention and strengthened awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns, key to help break the silence of the victims, always complicit silence of the abuser. We have also strengthened the 016 service and improved the Atenpro service by making it much more accessible. We have improved health care protocols and implemented a referral protocol between shelters for women victims of gender-based violence and their children, agreed among all autonomous communities. We have also made progress in the legal field: introduction of free justice for all victims regardless of their economic resources, entry into force of the status of the victim, reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. And we have also made visible, Minister, to the invisible and silent victims of gender-based violence so far, minors, who are at last recognized as direct victims, minors who have the same rights to assistance as their mothers. In this legislature, ladies and gentlemen, we have maintained and will continue to maintain budgetary commitment to this fight to eradicate gender-based violence. Thus, the General State Budgets envisaged an increase of 6.32%, with a total of EUR 25.23 million. Minister, being aware that much has been done, but that much remains... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u164	Thank you, President. Your Honor, there are indeed too many women who die at the hands of their abusers; there are too many children who suffer violence and who lose a mother; there are thousands of women who are abused, harassed, humiliated and who live in fear and from their silence. Only one murdered woman is too much for our society. Together we have managed to stop violence from being a domestic drama and to reach the public sphere. It is on all our political and institutional agendas. I would therefore like to highlight the agreement reached last week by all groups in this House to push forward the state pact against gender-based violence. Although it seems a lie, there are still 31% of men and women who consider acceptable behaviours that go against women's equality and freedom. Gender-based violence is not only an adult issue, but also affects young people, young people who are exposed to new forms of abuse through networks such as cyberbullying, sexting or cyberbullying. 44% of abused women do not want to report it because they do not think it is so important, because they do not recognize the warning signs or because they are caught up in the fear and violence of their abusers. Getting these women out of the circle of violence is the first and greatest goal we have to achieve, and for that we have made the fight against violence a matter of State. We will continue to work on three fronts: prevention, protection and awareness-raising. When we work in a network and coordinate we get further, and all we are achieving is through coordination, collaboration and cooperation between all administrations, all professionals, all associations and all civil society. In 2013, there was a qualitative leap forward, the approval of the joint instruction of five ministries, which served to effectively coordinate resources. This legislature also has the great challenge of fighting against trafficking mafias and prostitution, we cannot look elsewhere. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u165	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u166	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent appeal from the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Finance and Public Service on the government's policy to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, and more specifically on the measures taken to ensure that taxable persons benefiting from fiscal regularisation in 2012, better known as tax amnesty, effectively tax the 10% rate expressly provided for in the law. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, no Member of Parliament has been able to address a question to the Government for more than a year. Time goes by inexorably and this affects both the parliamentary control of the Government and the fiscal control of the fraudsters. Today we are bringing here a question, first of all, about the fight against fraud and, in order to fight tax fraud more effectively - as we were in the agreement with the Socialist Party and then we have in the agreement with the People's Party - we need more means. What the government did in the previous legislature was that for every five euros spent Germany in the fight against fraud we spent one, that at the end of the legislature there were 24,000 workers in the Tax Agency compared to 27,000 when it started. But this is not enough, we also have to let the inspectors work and that when there are localized fraud bags - that tax amnesty fraudsters have not paid what they legally had to pay and have paid much less - we have to let them work and not tell them in a report from the Directorate General of Taxes - which we will then talk about - that these declarations were not verifiable. But above all we cannot put a tax inspector behind each Spanish and, therefore, the most important anti-fraud measure of all is to convince the Spaniards that they must pay their taxes; and this is not achieved either by tax amnesty or by indiscriminate cuts or by spending money on duplication, bureaucratic expenditure, summation or political bubbles. When a country needs more collection, it needs to reduce the public deficit and it needs to reduce fraud, what it should not do is tax amnesty because that is something like when a person is hungry to take bicarbonate. [[Applauds]] A tax amnesty is always unfair. I am speaking not of the official term'regulatory', but as everyone knows it, 'tax amnesty'. Why? Because what happened in 2012 was to forgive the defrauders' taxes, almost everything they had to pay. According to Decree-Law 12/2012 they should have paid 10% and, as we will see, they ended up paying less than 3%. This must be repeated: it is unfair. If justice - as was already said from Plato - is the firm and determined will to give to each one his own, to raise taxes as it was done in the case of VAT, of the IRPF - finally there were more than thirty tax increases or as some others are told - to those who already paid and, at the same time, to forgive the taxes to the defrauders is anything but justice and thus it is impossible to convince the Spanish that they must pay their taxes. In the end, we end up having more fraud than the countries in our environment and with similar paper taxes we end up collecting less, and this always ends in cuts in the welfare state and indiscriminate tax increases. [[The Lord]] The fiscal amnesty of 2012 was not only an unfair thing and a mistake, it was also a rather cumbersome procedure and with many shadows. When I wrote a book on taxes and fraud in Spain, is it Hacienda?, to the chapter on tax amnesty I called it 'A Walk in the Dark', and that we then knew less things than we now know about this tax amnesty. For example, on 30 March 2012, when the tax amnesty was approved in the Council of Ministers, a minister whose spouse took up the tax amnesty took part. I'm talking about Mr. Arias Cañete. Perhaps, only perhaps, someone should have abstained. Subsequently, the ministerial order for the presentation of the tax amnesty made it possible to regularize cash. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessary to be a tax inspector to know that the cash is not traceable and that we can therefore meet fraudsters who took up the tax amnesty and that through it, by regularizing cash, they laundered money, that is, that there is money from corruption that has been reintroduced into the legal system - which is the definition of money laundering - through the advantage that was allowed in the ministerial order to regularize cash. And we are not talking about four bitches; we are talking, according to last week's data provided by the Transparency Portal, about 2.4 billion euros that we don't know where they came from and that can therefore have come from illegal activities, and this is serious. Even so, the Tax Agency located more than 700 taxpayers who had indications of money laundering, i.e. that they might be using the tax amnesty to launder money from criminal activities at low prices. We have heard something from Mr Fernández Villa; we have also heard something from the former vice president, from his former boss, Mr Rato, who even said that he consulted with you to take advantage of the tax amnesty and who is being pursued, but what happened to everyone else? Anyway, there's a lot of darkness and a lot of coddling. And so we came to the report of 27 June 2012, which allowed two things, in our scandalous opinion, that we have already discussed in Congress. In the first place, he said that the statements of the tax amnesty were not verifiable, that is, that the defrauders could literally do what they wanted, and in the second place, he decided that instead of these defrauders paying 10% on the value of the acquisition of the outpourings, which is what the 2012 Decree-Law says they have to pay, they would only pay 10% of the income of the last four years, in a clearly illegal interpretation. The practical result was that they paid less than 3% and that EUR 1,193 million was raised against the expected 2.5 billion. It is possible that in Citizens we are sometimes mistaken with the figures, but the deviations that occurred in the tax amnesty or recently in the collection of corporation tax, fortunately, we have never had them. In our opinion, the tax amnesty was a failure, although you said it had been a success. Subsequently, both in the agreement with the Socialist Party and in the agreement with you, and almost unanimously on 27 September in this House, we established that the files of the tax amnesty should be reviewed so that the defrauders would pay 10% that they should have taxed and not the kind of illegal or even more privileged form that they took, which was at the end of 3% effective. Before yesterday you said that the tax amnesty did not prescribe. The possibility of investigating is always there, that is true; however, the effects of that investigation are not the same. The possibility of recovering these quotas, of fulfilling the mandate of Congress, as always, is subject to the laws, and there are things imprescriptible in this life, but because they are collected by international treaties. For example, crimes against humanity never prescribe, but the possibility of recovering the money that was illegally forgiven, i.e. the possibility of liquidations being effective, prescribes to the four years since the end of the declaration period, because that is what is contained in the General Tax Law. The General Tax Act states that it prescribes to four years the possibility of liquidating taxpayers who have wrongly made a declaration, and as the voluntary deadline for declaration ended on 30 November 2012, anything that is not legally done before 30 November this year will no longer be worth doing so. That is what I say, indeed, but it is also said, for example, by the chairman of the professional organisation of financial inspectors. It is urgent for us to put on batteries. It is true that a series of letters have been issued, of communications without acknowledgement of receipt, which, obviously, as there is no acknowledgement of receipt, without entering into other considerations, do not interrupt the limitation period. Yesterday, at the last hour, his chief of staff had the courtesy of providing me with a copy, because since I did not take up the tax amnesty, and I suppose neither did he, he did not have a copy of the letter. [[Applauds]] In that letter they make a number of considerations. In any case, placing 29,000 letters on the street, as anyone who has managed a massive procedure of this style, without acknowledgement of receipt, implies, among other things, that some of these letters are lost and lost, and it is not the same thing to lose an isolated communication that loses a communication that identifies the person to whom it is addressed as someone who welcomed the tax amnesty, who relied on enhanced confidentiality. They could have consulted these things - we appreciate the gesture, in any case - because a procedure whose legal usefulness is quite questionable, to put it mildly, and which puts confidentiality at risk, a lot of sense, in our opinion, does not have. In any case, we hope that this will be the first step towards fulfilling your commitment to us and Congress to open these formal verification procedures and to effectively demand 10% of the amount of the goods that have come to pass, as the decree-law says, because we must remember, once again, that before we demand the first euro from honest taxpayers, what must be done is to apply the law - even a law as favourable as that of the tax amnesty - to the defrauders; it seems obvious, but we must remember it. In this regard, Mr Montoro - I would also address the rest of the members of the Government but they are not here, they are not interested in the matter - we believe that you have a commitment not only to Citizens in the investiture agreement, not only to the Congress of Deputies which adopted a resolution calling for these inspections to be opened, and even to yourselves, who voted in favour, but fundamentally to all the honest taxpayers of this country, who are many and who do not deserve to be forgiven the defrauders while in the environment it is, as it was in 2012, eventually to raise VAT, to raise the IRPF or to raise all kinds of taxes. Now they have it harder, that is, because they no longer have an absolute majority. In this regard, Mr Montoro, I would like to know whether you intend to do anything more about this issue that you have on the table, whether you are going to review these tax amnesty fraudsters to pay not what was theirs but at least 10% of what was said by the amnesty decree-law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u168	Thank you, sir. From the Tower. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an issue which I am not going to take away, but which is the first question of a new legislature. You regretted that we had been out of control of the government for a year, but there was no government, we were in office. We are, therefore, now approaching the first question of the new legislature to the fully capable Government, and I will gladly attend to it. Secondly, Citizens raises a first question on a 2012 issue and we are in 2016. In 2012 there was a process of extraordinary regularization in Spain, an extraordinary tax declaration, the first that was made in our history of the Treasury - the first and the only - with clear names and surnames, following the recommendations of international bodies such as the OECD, and on which I have responded precisely in this House in countless control sessions, in how many appeals. You weren't here, you're new, but I'll gladly transfer all the texts from the oral answers and the interrogations I've been attending these years. That's why I said it seems repetitive and redundant. Today, given the technological ease we have to read those texts, I will not repeat them, I will simply make three statements. Extraordinary measures do not like those who take them. Do you think I liked, as Finance Minister at the time, to make that decision and take it to the Council of Ministers? I didn't like anything; surely, less than what you liked as a tax inspector. But you have to do things for the country, extraordinary things at extraordinary times, and if it's worth it for the country, you have to do it. That's ruling, that's making decisions. And otherwise, decisions are really made by the Chambers, because they are laws that come to the Chambers. What the government has is legislative initiative, but it is you who decide in these Chambers. Therefore, what happened in Spain was an extraordinary fact that has served a great deal. Why? Because he's come up with a patrimony only with the extraordinary tax declaration. However, we must not only see it this way, we must also see it linked to model 720, to the obligation to declare derived from the following law, Law 7/2012, to which you have not referred at all and with which I imagine that, as an inspector of Finance, you will agree. He will agree that there was never such a requirement for the declaration of goods abroad and that that has promoted the emergence of a heritage outside Spain that we today set around 95 billion euros net and that we did not know, we did not have that personalized identification in the Tax Agency. Therefore, of course we have made progress, we have made much progress, and that mobilization of resources has certainly had an important economic effect. That is why it said that the political action of the Government also consists in doing things that do not like those who have to push them but that are worth doing for the country and for its consequences. That's what happened to this. From there, we have followed the agreement with Citizens, we did so in the non-law proposal, and therefore I have to tell you very clearly that according to the criteria of this ministry and of the minister, with excuse of the other criteria, there is no expiration and less from the sending of that tax agency document to the taxpayers who took up this and to those who are told that they are subject to investigation. Otherwise, money laundering issues have nothing to do with it. Of course they don't expire. What does one thing have to do with the other? You regret that there are outbursts and that these come from criminal acts, but that is still under investigation and you have all the figures from that investigation. We have already made it clear in the DTE law that the rest of the subject matter remains under investigation. So, I don't know what's really troubling your lordship. Your honor knows perfectly well the difference between a nominal type and an effective type. There's a difference, just like you fit in. No one has paid 3 %, they have paid 10 % of the returns for that period. Having said that - all this is very well and I will gladly answer your questions; moreover, we have already done so in a written agreement that we are developing - I will say something else that is also important in view of the future that is beginning right now: the Government is preparing a plan to combat fraud. The government will soon bring to the House, in its various fields, a new anti-fraud plan that completes a period of anti-fraud that has been extraordinary in the Spanish public finances. The figures are there. It has been collected as never before by the Tax Agency, more than 50 billion euros from 2012 until here. It had never been so collected in the fight against fraud. That is what we have to recognise and value, that we have a tax agency, that we have professionals in it who are really committed and that their efforts are dedicated to rigorously complying with tax legislation, to demanding compliance and, in particular, to combating fraud. I think we've made progress in this legislature, and I don't really know if we could have made any more progress. I say this frankly, because in my case there is also the fact that I was Minister of Finance before and when I see these figures and this outpouring of heritage outside of Spain, I have to celebrate that this is the case, I have to celebrate that extraordinary normalisation that is taking place in Spanish society. But we are not content with this and we are going to bring in measures that we are preparing and that, of course, will be consulted with the political groups in this House in an action to combat fraud. They are measures that can report important revenues already for the year 2017. These are realistic measures promoted by the Tax Agency itself. These are measures relating, for example, to the control of value added tax settlements. We are not going to raise VAT, we are not going to raise it in any of those approaches. We had to do it in 2012 and now it's when he's collecting. I had to come up here to defend that rise in VAT. Do you think it didn't hurt me when I came up here to defend the rise in VAT? I assure you, I have asked for forgiveness. I don't know how many times the Spaniards, many more than their leader, Mr Rivera, has asked. I have often asked for forgiveness from that seat in the control sessions for raising taxes, as we had to do in that year 2012, and I will do it publicly without any repair. But it was worth it. We had to do it at a time when the country was leaving, because we did not have enough support from the European institutions. Now, in 2017, we have an ambitious and important public deficit target as well and, therefore, we really need to enter. We are going to do this with a plan to combat VAT fraud and we are also going to deal with the postponements in the Tax Agency, which is a really important issue, because it does not make much sense, not even economic sense, that with the credit facility that is available today, companies are financed on everyone's finances. In that way, what we would have would be an outstanding debt in the Tax Agency of tens of billions of euros. We also have to go down the road to reducing cash payments, which we already did in that Law 7/2012. We have operational capacity ahead and I hope to find your ladies and gentlemen working together, because it seems absolutely essential to me. Therefore, let us not make the wrong balance, because it is not fair to anyone and less to the professionals of the Tax Agency. As for all those who are committed to it every day and whose desire is precisely to fight fraud, I have to say that they are not being effective. We will give them regulatory changes, as was the Law 7/2012. Let's go to that in this legislature. There you will find us completely willing, Mr De la Torre; you will find us Citizens, who is the author of this inquiry, and you will find us the other political groups. We are working and are going to talk to them right away about the content of these and other tax proposals. All that we have to do, but let's look to the future. History leaves it there, it's in the Journal of Sessions. As I was telling you, I don't know how many times I've had to argue this. Of course, I am happy to do so this morning, but we are going to look to the future, because we have a much more promising future ahead, I assure you, than we had in 2012, when 800,000 jobs were destroyed in our country. More than 500,000 jobs are being created this year. Today there is economic recovery, and the faithful fulfilment of tax obligations is a very effective way to consolidate it, to create employment, to build a more just society, with effective social cohesion, and, of course, to make Spain a country that can achieve the deficit targets, however demanding they are, by 2017, thus contributing very positively not only to our economic stability, but also to the stability of Europe, to the stability of the euro. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u170	Thank you, Minister. Mr De la Torre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, I answer some of the questions you have raised. First of all, we're going to look at the future. When someone defrauds, what needs to be done is to pursue him, and there's no point looking into the future, because what we don't know is who's going to defraud. If we want to fight fraud, when we have a localized purse of fraudsters, we have to enforce their tax obligations. The tax obligation of the debtors in receipt of the tax amnesty was to pay 10 % of the amount of the goods produced and had an obligation to do so within a voluntary period of declaration ending on 30 November 2012. From there, the Tax Agency, in accordance with articles 66 et seq. of the General Tax Act, has four years to review. The key question here is whether you are going to review and whether or not you are going to force taxpayers who did not pay 10% of the outflows to pay that amount. Obviously, if, as you say and have repeatedly said, these taxpayers came up with 40 billion euros - their purchase value, according to the foreign declaration of goods, was 40 billion dollars - they had to have collected 4 billion dollars and are only in cash 1,193 million, and the deadline to demand this money ends on November 30 and this deadline is interrupted by a notice of receipt that starts a verification procedure. If this procedure is the inspection procedure, from there there are eighteen months. The question that we bring to you as a matter of urgency - that is what we are dealing with today - is not whether the declaration of property abroad was a good idea, which was, indeed, a copy of the American FBAR, Foreign Banks and Receivable Accounts, which was implemented by the Obama Administration. That's right, the Obama administration didn't have to do a tax amnesty, so they're not related. Indeed, it is very good that these €40 billion have come out, but your tax return, according to the 2012 Annual Tax Agency Collection Report, was only €350 million a year, Mr Montoro. The question here is quite simple: is it going to proceed against these fraudsters according to the commitment we have, in accordance with the resolution of the Congress, that in addition to the point that you quote in the letter - a communication without notice of receipt - also includes cancelling the internal instructions of the Tax Agency that make the report of the Directorate General of Taxes mandatory and opening inspection files to these taxpayers? It must be borne in mind that they were not only defrauders, but then paid much less than the amnesty rule itself said. That's the point. From there, indeed, for quite obvious reasons, I am very proud of the work of my fellow members of the Tax Agency and I think they do things very well. There's a report from the Tax Directorate. What was decided in this House, as you rightly say, was the validation of the decree-law, which came forward thanks to your votes and those of the party formerly known as Convergence, currently the Catalan European Democratic Party; it was approved in the courts and, although I, as you say, do not like anything and my group, too, must comply with it. However, what does the report say that it did not pass through the Chambers? He says that these statements were not verifiable, so I ask him the following question: Are these statements going to be reviewed so that the defrauders pay what the rule said they had to pay; not what they should have paid originally, but what the rule said they had to pay? That is simply the question we ask you. In conclusion, let us look to the future. We must fight more and better against tax fraud; we must put more means and not cut them, as you did, but above all we must legitimise the tax system, the fight against fraud. If we are not able to demand 10% of the tax amnesty fraudsters, how are we going to convince the Spaniards that they have to pay their taxes, which - I repeat - is the most important anti-fraud rule of all? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that they do not prescribe. You say they prescribe the performances and I tell you no. The Directorate of the Tax Agency says when addressing them: They do not prescribe. Don't worry, Your Honor. I insist that they do not prescribe inspection proceedings because we are talking about a declaration, so stop turning around and let's talk about practicality. If you have a legislative initiative on any taxable event, bring it to the House and we will see if it thrives, but it is not so much about the past, because what has been done in the past has been to comply with tax legislation. Bring your suggestions to the House. Of course, if you want to talk to me I would be very honored to do so, but bring that legislative initiative. [[Laughter]] By next week we must convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, promote measures consistent with deficit targets and define within the Government the proposal for all these measures. We will also have to have implemented the anti-fraud plan and improved tax control that I announced this morning. All that we have to have now, and that is why I was saying that we will have a chance to translate it into parliamentary votes in the next few days, but, if I may make a suggestion, stop looking back and let's look forward, because, if not, they won't believe us where they have to do it. We are going to look for tax sources that we can get from a more efficient tax fraud control and we are going to introduce rules that really reduce tax fraud in Spain. You're a tax inspector. Do you know of an era of combating fraud like the one that has taken place in the last five years? Is he able to say yes? No, you won't be able to. There has never been a time like this, and I say it with all sincerity and frankness. Look at how one of the economic policy interpreters of another of the new groups in the House, Podemos, said in an interview: for the effectiveness in the fight against fraud in this period we support and congratulate the Minister of Finance. [[Laughter]] He said that in an interview and I appreciate it, because I am very unfamiliar with someone saying something positive about their own actions, obviously excluding the people who make up the parliamentary group that supports the Government; if not, it would make no sense for government action. He said I'm so unusual that right now I was coming to my memory. That's how it was. Let's not say there's been a relaxation, because it's the opposite. There has been a demand as there should be in a reliable and secure country. From there, let us modernise and update tax rules, improve controls - which is what I am offering this morning - and agree on shared and shared objectives. Then there is the reproach of the past, but I have already said that I will not defend what has been useful. We have made decisions that had to be made at a certain time, as other Governments have had to make other decisions because they really understood that they were the best for their countries at that time. That's rule. That is the normal action of the Government and not so normal when extraordinary situations occur. Now let's get to work. Tax fraud is still there and our responsibility is to cut it, correct it and get it to improve tax collection in our country without taxing families, citizens, the self-employed or small and medium-sized enterprises. That is our fundamental task right now. I, as responsible for this matter, am convinced that we can make great progress in the near future. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, on the situation of energy poverty in which more than five million people live in our country, particularly in the protection measures envisaged by the Government of Spain for the EESC in the violation of rights. [[File number 172/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u175	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the situation of energy poverty in which more than five million people live in our country, especially on the protection measures envisaged by the Government of Spain for the cessation of the violation of rights. For your defence, Mr Turrion Churches has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you're opening up at the head of the Energy portfolio and you're going to let me teach you a trick to warm up a small room for very little money... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u177	Mr. Churches, please, just a moment. I ask you to be silent so that we can listen to the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. I was telling you, Minister, that you can go to the Ikea and buy those little candles that are very cheap, a tray with high edges and two ceramic pots, one bigger and one smaller. If you place four candles on the tray and place the smaller pot on them and then the larger pot, after a few hours you may be able to raise the temperature of a small room about 2 or 3 degrees. Do not try it in your office because it would surely be too big and, above all, be careful because this is dangerous. This technique I'm telling you became famous four years ago when a British freelance journalist videotaped it and went viral, because many people copied it for their home. It also appears in a film that I recommend, I, Daniel Blake of Ken Loach, in which a family with no income is also forced to try to heat their house like this. When I saw the film, one of the companions who came with me got excited and broke to cry because she had had to warm a room once using this technique. The problem with this technique, which is certainly cheap, is that it is very dangerous. Barcelona City Council firefighters have said that 70% of the fires they have to attend have to do with families or people who try to warm up using tricks like this. There's more tricks. You can buy tape and put it in the windows or you can cover it with blankets at home. There are even many families who send the children to sleep from six o'clock in the afternoon because they are warmer in bed or many retirees, many pensioners, who also go to bed too early for that and, moreover, to be able to have the lights turned off. There are some facts that explain that in our country there are so many people who have to play life using tricks like these, which also humiliate the dignity of people. According to the National Institute of Statistics, one third of Spaniards are poor. The problem of energy poverty is that it is the most invisible, because it occurs in the domestic sphere and because it causes enormous shame to the people who suffer it. It also affects, Minister, the most vulnerable sectors, the elderly, girls and boys. According to a study by the Association of Environmental Sciences, in the last eight years the price of light and gas in Spain has risen by 70%, and governments have done nothing. At the same time that unprecedented cuts were being made in our country, at the same time that an increasing number of Spaniards were suffering not only unemployment, but unemployment without receiving any benefits, while the disposable income of Spanish families was falling, light and gas were rising by 70%, and the Government was doing nothing. According to Infolibre, from 2009 to 2015 there have been 7.3 million light cuts in Spain, and the governments have done nothing. I'll show you another trick. This one you know better, but I want to tell people. It's a trick that electrics use to keep abusing and to keep doing basically what they want. The trick could be illustrated as follows: José María Aznar, Board of Directors of Endesa; Ángel Acebes, Board of Directors of Iberdrola; Felipe González Márquez, Board of Directors of Gas Natural; Elena Salgado, Board of Directors of Endesa. This trick sounds more like you. Also in 2012 information from Infolibre pointed out that Red Eléctrica filed for his company his twin brother, Alberto Nadal, who was then Secretary of State for Energy and is currently Secretary of State for Budgets, and also Ignacio López del Hierro, at the time consort of Mrs. María Dolores De Cospedal. Both resigned from this appointment, from this record, from the scandal that was generated. The problem is that this trick, the trick of rotating doors, is legal. This trick is that energy companies buy these gentlemen from here in the blue bank, buy them with money, take out the money it takes to buy ex-ministers and ex-presidents. [[Let's give it up. - A gentleman: Come on, man!]] That is why there is no public audit so that we know the real costs of energy and that is why they continue to rob citizens. When you liberalised the energy sector in 1997 - a curious word to speak of an oligopolistic sector - energy transition costs reached €3.5 billion. Neither the Government of Zapatero nor the Government of Rajoy requested in time and form the return of that money, which is Spanish. You know why? Because the trick of energy companies works, and the trick is to buy politicians, buy presidents, and buy ex-ministers. [[Applauds]] Minister, we have asked for Mr Isidre Fainé to appear in the Committee on Energy. Mr. Isidre Fainé, who was a banker, is now at the head of Gas Natural Fenosa, which is the company that cut off the light of a lady from Reus, Rosa, who died. By the way, it might not be bad if we kept minutes of silence in Parliament for the victims of energy poverty. [[Applauds]] We will ask you if you understand that your company has any responsibility for not correctly applying the Catalan law against energy poverty, which says that a company has to inform the city's social services. I would also like to know, look to the face and be able to ask questions to the presidents of Iberdrola, Endesa and other energy companies, because I, Minister, like to talk to the chiefs, I do not like to talk to their commissioners, and sometimes I have the impression that some of you, ministers and presidents, are commissioners of energy companies, are commissioners of economic powers. [[Mr. Tarno Blanco: What a shame! What a barbarity!]] What a barbarity, isn't it? What a barbarity that there are people who have to die in Spain for energy poverty! What a barbarity, Congressman! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u179	Wait a minute, Mr. Iglesias. I would ask Members not to enter into dialogue during the speaker's speaking time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u180	What a barbarity that there are ex-presidents and ex-ministers in our country who sit on the boards of strategic companies who continue to cut off light and heating to our compatriots! What a barbarity that the government in this country does not act to defend people and act as a commissioner of these companies! What should be done, Minister, is very simple, understood by any Spanish citizen. What should be done has to do with common sense and has to do with what civil society organisations like Facula have said, such as the PAH, the Alliance against Strategic Poverty or the Platform for a new energy model, which are also the intellectual authors of the Catalan law that has been valued as one of the best European laws against energy poverty. These are very simple things that your Government could do. Firstly, prohibition - prohibition - of cutting basic supplies due to energy poverty, and that the social services of the municipalities can have the control and evaluation of those who cut off light or heating simply because they are poor. [[Applauds]] Secondly, the EUR 3.5 billion must be recovered because they belong to the Spanish citizens. What the Governments of Zapatero and Rajoy did was a shame, those 3.5 billion euros have been stolen from the citizens of that country, who have the right to have their Government claim that money from the electricians. Thirdly - it is very simple -, prohibition of rotating doors. The Government and this House have sufficient mechanisms not to have to continue to humiliate democracy, seeing ex-presidents and ex-ministers sitting on the boards of strategic companies. And fourthly, audit costs and end tariff abuses. Minister, the government's obligation is to enforce the law and enforce the law, and in this country international human rights law is not being complied with, in this country Directive 72/2009 is not being complied with, in this country the fourth general comment of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights is not being complied with. The Government had to comply with the law and compel electricians to comply with it as well. Do you know, Minister, what to do if the electrics do not comply with the law? They are invited to a meeting, they sit politely at a table and read the following: 'All the wealth of the country, in its various forms and whatever its ownership, is subordinated to the general interest. Public initiative in economic activity is recognized. By law, essential resources or services may be reserved for the public sector, especially in the event of a monopoly, and also agree on the intervention of undertakings where the general interest so requires.' It is not the Communist manifesto, Minister, it is Article 128 of the Spanish Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Energy, Tourism and the Digital Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Iglesias, for your constructive intervention, which has been very useful in providing ideas and measures to combat energy poverty, which is what I have come to talk about here. From its actions in terms of provocation, agitation and propaganda, I will not enter because it is not the responsibility of the Government of Spain and it is also not useful for the five million people who, according to the National Institute of Statistics, have problems of energy poverty in our country. [[Applauds]] I will tell you one thing: This minister has never been bought by a company or by any foreign government. I'll leave it to you like this. [[Applauds]] This inquiry is the result of a very regrettable case. I believe that there is no one in this House or outside it who does not regret the death of Mrs Rosa Pitarch, who did not have to have occurred or, at least, what did not have to have occurred is the electricity cut-off that took place in that house because there was a law in force. I admit - and I've told a press colleague before who asked me - that it's a good law. It is a law that is framed within the constitutional sphere and within the capacities that the Generalitat of Catalonia has to manage. It is a law that had its protocols and had a fund intended to avoid supply cuts, as did the City Council of Reus. This person was cared for by social services and was also cared for in terms of water and gas supplies. Something hasn't worked, something hasn't been right, and we need to learn from this. This is an extreme case. It's a case of what we can call severe vulnerability, but there's a more general vulnerability, which is those five million people I was talking about earlier. The European Commission tells us that there are three elements that help or push for greater or lesser levels of energy poverty. The first, of course, concerns income levels, poverty. Insufficient income, of course, is the number one element for us to have energy poverty. I'd say it's 80% of the problem. You certainly do not agree with what I am going to say, but an economic policy that seeks to increase the level of employment, the level of income of the country, improve its competitiveness, achieve half a million jobs per year, decrease by five hundred thousand households that have no unemployed members and that has decreased - it is true that not yet with enough force, we do not have data from recent years - the number of people on the poverty line, I think it is a policy that has helped a lot. You've talked about a third. That's 20% if we then add social benefits. 20%, no social benefits. Mr. Churches, it is good that we read the statistics well. The second element that influences energy poverty is that of energy prices. I have seen nothing in your electoral programme on energy, nothing, that will help to reduce the energy costs of this country; rather on the contrary. All you propose are more costs, and more costs are more prices; that is, costs that favour certain sectors or certain interests, because you also favour certain sectors and certain interests, of course. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] Do not tell me, Madam Member, that they favour the whole population; no, certain groups which are interested in certain technologies and certain investments. In this we must be balanced. I am only going to tell you one thing, if we do not take care of the cost of energy there will be more energy poverty, not less; and you do not raise your shoulders on these issues. So I hope that in all the parliamentary initiatives that your group has on this issue, on energy issues, they do not increase the costs of the system and, above all, to benefit some and not all. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, the quality of housing. This is a very important issue and a lot to talk about. If we don't have quality housing, the cost to a low-income family to maintain adequate temperatures is much more expensive. We therefore have a higher incidence of that energy poverty in that family. No, no, you're nodding me, but I like it because, at least, we talk about the issues that influence energy poverty and the measures we can take. There is a plan under way by the Ministry of Development for the renovation of fifty thousand houses and another by IDAE for the renovation of nearly sixty thousand houses, and we want to expand it. Here we have to make a lot of effort. Everything we can do to renovate the housing stock and make them better isolated and more energy efficient, much better. The IDAE programme, which depends on my department, was launched just two years ago; it is financed by the energy sector, it is the energy efficiency programme; it is paid for by companies, those companies that you do not like, and I believe that companies are useful, what needs to be done is to have them well regulated and act properly, but they are useful and work within a market economy - the Constitution also tells us that there is freedom of enterprise, private property and market economy, also tells us, Mr. Iglesias - and in competition, and if there is not enough competition, that is well regulated, which is what my department is dedicated to. Well, these companies are paying an Energy Efficiency Fund and almost half of that fund, a very high percentage of it, is being devoted to improving the energy efficiency of housing, building, which is essential. These are the three elements that would help us reduce energy poverty. However, we still have energy poverty. This is what the statistics of the National Institute of Statistics are telling us, about 10% of the population, 10.6 in the last year; in 2016 it will be 10.1, which is a figure that varies over time. I think it also has to do with climatology, because the INE asks households and there are years that are better and years that are worse, but we are in those figures. The average monetary union is 9.6; we are slightly above it. That doesn't mean we're getting along. We have a problem similar to that of other European countries, and we must therefore tackle it. Once we have energy-poor households, we need to see what action can be taken. And here there are two types of action: one is in the field of energy policy, and the other is in the field of social policy. We have a decentralized constitutional system and energy policy belongs exclusively to the central administrations, these General Courts and the Government, and social policy, to the autonomous communities. This has been defined very well by the Constitutional Court, as a result of the first unconstitutionality appeal of the first decree-law on this issue, made by the Generalitat de Catalunya. Then, the law that he later made did respect these limits. This is very important because you belong to a group called the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, do not tell me that your group does not seek to respect the autonomy statutes, the exclusive competences of the autonomous communities and what these autonomous communities can do as the Constitutional Court tells us, because they have exclusive subject in social matters. What is the responsibility of the General Administration of the State, what can we do here? The general energy policy, which caters to the large group of vulnerable people, is 10%. This is what is done in 2009 with a socialist government and as an obligation coming from a Community directive the social bonus is created. The social bonus has remained intact, with the different groups that make up it, until the present moment. I believe that all political parties have on our agenda a review of these collectives and see what makes sense and what makes no sense within the social bonus, and on that I would like to call your spokesman for the meeting I want to have tomorrow with all energy spokespersons to discuss this issue. The social bonus was improved in 2013, before it was a fixed amount that charged each household, now it is 25% of the total price of what is consumed, with which those families that need more consumption have a greater benefit within this social bonus. But this social bonus has suffered a serious attack, this attack comes from a Supreme Court ruling in which it is said that the electric marketers had not properly distributed their funding to each other, so to speak, and has thus left this funding in suspense. This is very urgent to resolve. I believe that the resolution is very obvious, simply applying the Supreme Court's ruling so that the system can continue to be financed and functioning properly. With the look on my face, I say to you that it is still financed, of course, by the marketers, I believe that is the view of the Government and I believe that we are not going to have any disagreement in that. Good. We apply the sentence urgently and have the social bonus funded. That's enough with the social bonus? I'll tell him no. All the political parties had an improvement on our agenda, we will open a discussion from tomorrow to see how we can improve it; but now, urgently, we will give it funding because it is what we have for this great collective. Then we have the problem that arises and reveals to us in a very obvious way the case of Reus and is what to do, not with cases of general vulnerability, but with cases of severe vulnerability, those cases that are attended to and that can only be evaluated by social services and, therefore, it is the competence of the autonomous communities. We, from here, cannot tell an autonomous community how it has to do its social policy, that is obvious. They're gonna do whatever they want. What they are told, and that is what is currently within the Constitutional Court's ruling and guides the way in which they should act, is as follows: it is the autonomous communities that have to make their agreements with the electricity companies, which is what has happened in the case of Catalonia; these agreements determine the conditions or not for the interruption of the supply, and once the appropriate conditions for the payment of the debt are established, in any case the autonomous community guarantees the payment of the debt through the funds it has instituted for the payment of the outstanding debt of these families in extreme vulnerability. The system is very well done, in Catalonia the system is very well done, it still failed and you will have to see why that happened. There is an open investigation, I spoke to the Generalitat Councillor, Mr Baiget, and I spoke to the Mayor of Reus, Mr Pellicer, and I asked them and I told them that for anything we could do from the knowledge we have in the national energy system to support their research or for what they need to clarify, they have of course the ministry and all the information that the liquidation system has and the other issues that are in our information, in our capacity, to be able to clarify it. It's his autonomic competition. What else can we do? That we can somehow look at the best practices of the different autonomous communities, how do they deal with these more severe, more concrete cases? Can we do a pooling? I'd like that. I would like to see how the Autonomous Communities collaborate with each other and we are looking for best practices and to be applied. I can announce here what the government can do, which is that improvement of the social bonus; even talk about how I can look for some kind of specific funding that can help the autonomous communities and the municipalities for their activity. But those who have to do this activity of monitoring, evaluating and looking for and caring for the population that is in this situation of severe vulnerability obviously have to be those who have the competence and the means, because obviously no social worker works for the Ministry of Energy; however, it is the social workers who evaluate the cases like that of Mrs. de Reus. This is the proposal that I have, because I have come here to make proposals, I have come here to work, I have come here to dialogue, I have come here to talk to you and the other parliamentary groups to see how we can find solutions to this issue. It is obvious that it is not well resolved, that we do not have it as well resolved as in other countries, although it is also better resolved than in other countries - we must also say - but it always remains to work. As long as there are people who have difficulty in their energy consumption, the government cannot be satisfied. I have just arrived, I am faced with a sentence that needs to be answered in order to prevent this from creating a problem and I am faced with a good predisposition for dialogue between the political groups in order to make further progress on this issue. I have looked at all the electoral programmes and all the political pacts that have been on this issue for the past 12 months and we are very coincident, Mr. Iglesias, tremendously coincident. I believe that there is a very broad scope for the agreement, a very wide possibility of taking legislative and other initiatives in this Parliament to help solve the problems and I invite you to join us. Everything else, I understand that you have to make your speech. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Turrion Churches has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I will remind you of the four proposals I have made to you. I am prepared to give them to you so that you do not say that we do not make proposals and the four are within your competence, so that you do not say that this is a problem of the confederality or multinationality of Spain or of the competences of the different autonomous communities. The first proposal is the prohibition of cuts in basic supplies due to poverty. It is a competence that the Government has and that is a political decision like any other. The question is: Are you willing to make a decree-law or a law banning cuts in supplies due to poverty? The second proposal is transformed into a question: are you going to work to recover the €3.5 billion that you owe to all Spanish citizens the electricity costs of energy transition? Second proposal, second question. Third proposal that becomes a question, rotating doors. I have never heard a member of this Parliament defend in this forum that it is presentable, that it is ethical, that it is efficient in economic terms to have ex-presidents and ex-ministers on boards of directors of strategic companies. Moreover, it is something they are ashamed of, something that political parties in electoral campaign like not to talk about because the candidates are ashamed of having their former presidents and their former ministers on those boards of directors. Can you imagine Mariano Rajoy saying that he is proud that Mr. José María Aznar is in Endesa? Can you imagine Susana Díaz saying...? Well, Susana Díaz does, she's able to say she's proud that Felipe González is in Natural Gas. But the Spaniards are ashamed of it. Third question: Are you going to ban the rotating doors at once? Because it is obvious that what an energy company does when registering ex-ministers and ex-presidents is to make an investment, it is to buy them to be legislated in their favor. Fourth question: Are you going to promote a public audit of costs and are going to end tariff abuses at once? This is something that has been denounced by each and every expert association. I add a fifth question, I have told you that we have requested the appearance of Mr. Isidre Fainé, a very powerful man. I'd like to know your opinion. Would you mind if Mr. Isidre Fainé, the man who is at the head of Fenosa Natural Gas, appeared at the seat of popular sovereignty to explain to representatives of popular sovereignty? It seems to me very sensible that one of the most powerful men in the world - of those who sometimes have dinners with politicians - instead of so much dinner, one day come to a parliamentary committee and we Members can ask you questions. Is that okay with you? With regard to Rosa's death in Reus, I understand that you say that this is the competence of the Generalitat of Catalonia, but what are you going to do? You cannot tell me if there have been 7.3 million power cuts in recent years that this is a competition problem. What are you thinking of doing from your ministry to prevent these cuts from occurring and unfortunate situations like the one we all reject here will not be repeated again? Speaking of Catalan law, you said you love it. Why did they resort to it? It is true that they resorted to it in part that had to do with housing, but you later spoke of the need for housing to be built and inhabited in conditions of energy quality. The Government at a press conference of Mrs. Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría explained that this law - one of the best laws in Europe - was invoked by the Government. What do you think of that resource? Speaking of our program, I don't doubt your rigour, but I don't think you've read it well. The star proposal of our programme was precisely a two-legged national energy transition plan: one, the generation of employment, putting to work many of the stops coming from construction in the rehabilitation of buildings for greater energy efficiency. Secondly, there is a clear transition that has some losers. We bet to evolve into a clean energy. It seems to us that betting on solar energy, on wind energy, is healthier than betting on forms of energy that have to do with hydrocarbon resources from which our country, on the other hand, is not a producer, with which sovereignty is called into question by relying on the international pricing of these products. This is our proposal. You say you don't like it, but don't say we don't take the energy issue seriously because it's probably the star proposition of our program. He asked three more questions. First, what are you going to do specifically, what are you going to tell the electricians to end the cuts. This is not something that can be delegated to municipalities or autonomous communities. Secondly, are you going to meet with them, with the presidents of the electrics? Are you going to meet with the electricians to tell them that the cuts for poverty have ended? Finally, I am in favour of a state policy on energy. I believe that in this we could seek agreements that would allow us to guarantee something that has not only to do with human rights and citizens' rights, but also with the sovereign possibilities of a country, because ultimately we are talking about strategic resources. And here are many formulas, for example, the French have nationalized their electricity company, and I do not say that this is the only one but I believe, Minister, that you will agree with me that in this country we have an oligopoly that has been favoured by the different political powers, and that it is in the interest of Spain, of our country, to have an energy system that fulfils two functions: one, to ensure a minimum energy autonomy of our country, and two, that the fourth economy of the euro area can ensure that no Spanish citizen is cut off from light or heating due to poverty. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u185	Thank you very much, Mr Turrion Churches. To conclude the debate, the Minister has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u186	Mr. Churches, you have not responded to so many things that I have raised with you. I suppose you will agree fully with what I have said to you about the reform of the social bonus and the other systems of cooperation between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities. He talks to me about the CTCs, about the costs of transition to competition. They were closed in 2009 by a law passed by this Parliament, which we voted against, and when we arrived at the government, although you said that we did not do anything, we did do something: first, we look at the possibility of reopening this issue. The State Advocate - I have the report, I will show it to you when I want - told us that this issue could not be reopened under Spanish law, but we could do one thing, and it was to ask the European Commission to open a file, which is being processed, to see if that constituted illegal State aid. The hope we have on this issue is only to see whether the European Commission opens this matter and qualifies it as state aid; in the area of Spanish legislation it is closed. It is not our decision, it is because of what our laws are, which obviously must be complied with, and I suppose you will agree on that. But he cannot say, because it would be very unfair, that the Spanish Government has done nothing about it. Swivel doors? There is a conflict of interest regulation that is rigorously enforced. Do you want to harden it? Perfect, but right now there is a conflict of interest policy and it is being complied with because there is a Conflict of Interest Office reporting for each high office of the General Administration of the State requesting a change of activity. How little do you think? I have no problem with you bringing to the House a tightening of this regulation - it does not seem to me that this is the most essential element in the energy sector, except that it would not be my competence to discuss it - but the law is in force and is scrupulously enforced, and it has not always happened in the previous history of the various governments that there would be an office with a rigour and a level of compliance like that now. What I just didn't get is when you talk to me about how I'm going to end the 7.3 million power cuts. Hey, is everyone out of poverty? No one here is cut off from electricity because they don't pay. I just don't get it. [[Mr. Iglesias Turrion: Out of poverty]] He tells me he's out of poverty. Well, we agree; then it's not 7.3 million. There are commercial premises that do not pay; there are second homes that do not pay or there are people who did not remember that he had expired the credit card, but within 24 hours they are restored the supply... By the way, the electricity system, as far as I am concerned, does not know what the cause is, whether it is because of poverty or for any other reason, which is why I say that social services have to intervene, and that is when the Constitutional Court tells us that this is the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities and that is where we can have good practices and exchanges or that the Autonomous Communities think that this has to be re-centralised in some way. We need to talk about this if we want to do it at the national level or if each autonomous community is doing it. I said, I have no objection to recognizing that Catalan law is a good law. By the way, I have not appealed against it in my area of competence; in other areas, if it could have had problems of competence and constitutionality, the Constitutional Court will say so already, and in the previous decree-law it did say so. This law is a mixture of several matters, one of which is the energy, which is not appealed, and cannot tell me, in what is my work and my portfolio, that I have appealed it because I have not appealed it. [[Rumors]] She's resorted to other articles, not mine. [[Rumors]] With regard to the audit of costs, what do you think was the energy reform that the government did in the previous legislature? It was precisely this, a cost-per-cost review, in the various regulated activities of the sector - which are 60% of the sector - to see if the remuneration levels were the right ones. You who like history and dating so much - it seems to me very well, I share with you that hobby - did you know that before the energy reform there were tending electric cables, of those that go from house to house in the villages - and we see them throughout the Spanish geography - that they are from the time of Primo de Rivera, that they were still amortizing and that the previous government had to come to order because it was not known what profitability had each project and how it was standardized? The order of standards that was established has more than a thousand pages. A ministerial order with a commendable work of the officials of the then Ministry of Industry and IDAE; many of them were decorated, because you can't even imagine the work that involved them doing precisely what you call an audit, project by project, standard by standard, see how much it had to cost, see how much it was declared, see what profitability should have been and get a pay order. That order, that royal decree of retribution is resorted to by the electric companies; they did not like it, but it is in force, because we do politics seriously, without demagoguery. It is not a question that because a company is big and earns profits because it is big by itself bad, no, it is a matter of which they have to compete and, when they are regulated, it has to be very clear how they are regulated and the first government that has put order in this country's energy policy, in decades, has been the previous, very criticized. If you consult in the Chambers you will see that this minister is not exactly the sector's favorite, but it is not a question of dealing with the sector simply because it is the sector; it is a much simpler question: to regulate well, to work well so that there is competition and, of course, not to make irresponsibility in the energy sector. [[Applauds]] You tell me about your election program, but shutting down nuclear power, hair, costs money. [[Rumors]] Yes, sir, because it's an energy that meets some requirements that don't meet others. Tomorrow maybe we have other technologies, but putting expensive and immature technologies cost this country a lot of money, you know how much? It has cost it for twenty-five years more than EUR 9 billion a year, because they were immature; energy at 50 euros was replaced by megawatt/hour by energy at 500 euros megawatt/hour. Today that energy is efficient; that photovoltaic energy today is, today it is 50, but then the Spaniards paid 500 and we gave the rest of the world the learning curve.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u187	Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u188	Today in China there is already a photovoltaic production industry because we did the fool in this country and we finance at very expensive prices an immature industry. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR, ON GOVERNMENT POLICY TO GUARANTEE RESPECT FOR THE RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS OF CITIZENS. [[File number 172/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u189	We turn to the next item: an urgent call from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of the Interior on government policy to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens. For your defence, Mr Trevín Lombán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you occupy one of the safest offices in Spain. I remind you, however, that in it you recorded your predecessor and the director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia searching for information against political opponents of the PP. These murky handlings were made known to all Spaniards by different means of communication for the government's scorn and surprise of Spanish society to the fact that the man responsible for ensuring the safety of all was not able to guarantee his own. I remind him of this grave fact so that he does not repeat such an example of incompetence and, above all, that he does not imitate those managements of his predecessor incompatible with the rule of law. I know that you will understand the crucial importance of this, much better than Mr Fernández Díaz, although I confess that he missed the support he gave him on such listenings while affronting the attitude of those from this Congress who asked for political explanations and responsibilities for them. Mr. Zoido, I would have liked to give you a more pleasant reception, without allusions to your predecessor. Believe me, I do not have anything personal against Mr Fernández Díaz nor do I want to declare to you a preventive parliamentary war; I simply have a political obligation to tell him that he comes to a difficult ministry both because of his own characteristics and because they have left him a ruinous inheritance, so bad that the citizens relied more on the supposed guardian angel of the former minister than on the holder himself. It is now up to you, Minister, to ensure respect for rights and freedoms in a faithful manner, and the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March, although it is argued in a hypothetical protection of citizen security, does not lead to it. What you actually approved was a sanctioning regime outside immediate judicial control. Then we discovered that it was we who had to protect ourselves from the government; they were trying to eradicate any glimpse of social protest by establishing as violations conduct related to civil and political rights. While trying to restrict the freedoms of all Spaniards, his predecessor aspired to have the greatest possible freedom to operate on whim. With this law, Mr. Fernández Díaz was sending us a clear message: the street is mine. Some of her internal leaders in these years have shown blind faith in her. Cristina Cifuentes, as government delegate in Madrid, in 2012 multiplied the penalties for participating in demonstrations in respect of the previous year, which had been the 15-M. Never before in democracy was legislation applied so harshly to the dissenter, especially if he was a trade unionist. In recent years, two hundred and sixty trade union representatives faced severe administrative sanctions or sentences with significant prison sentences. The ILO does not believe that this is happening in Spain. That is why, Minister, in democracy, it is important to know that the street is a citizen's street and that we must live with criticism, with protests, with demonstrations and with judges, even if they are not all uncomfortable. It seems that the PP finds it difficult to accept the political discrepancy or the judicial counterweight, and believes that security is a harvest of fear. In this law you repeatedly allude to the right to tranquillity but for you tranquillity comes as a lock, as the old Francoist aphorism says, the locks in this case are the fines with which the Spaniards who protest, who with this law have become habitual suspects. I repeat to you, Minister, what I have already said in this Chamber regarding the law: the Socialists will fight it to its end, with the parliamentary opposition for as long as it lasts and with the search for comprehensive agreements to repeal it in a forthcoming legislature, without renouncing the corresponding remedy of unconstitutionality that we have already presented. The President of the Government has announced his vocation of dialogue and agreement, welcome. We too are in that arrangement. The absolute majority has its advantages, I don't doubt it, but it also carries many vices, you know: the contempt for minorities, the pride, the abuse of the roller. Minister, all this is reflected in this law that popular wisdom rightly baptized as a gag. You have a dialogue to repeal it and to agree on a new law. You have a third open front: the one that affects foreigners. The People's Group introduced an amendment to the previous law by obviating reports such as that of the General Council of the Judiciary and that of the Council of State. The change affects the return at the border without taking into account the cases of potential asylum seekers, who must have the opportunity to seek international protection when they are entitled to it. Spain, Minister, has to fulfil its international commitments in this area, also when these people are incarcerated in an IEC. They must guarantee them dignity in their daily lives, their human rights and their security, as well as those of their guardians, something which is clearly better, given the numerous incidents that occur in them, despite the fact that they are surprisingly present in some of them police intervention units, something which must be resolved as soon as possible. They must pay more attention to this because we have recently heard them boast in international areas of the process of integration of emigration that has taken place in Spain in the last decade. Remember that it was launched in 2005 with a socialist government in our country, a process, by the way, that its party did not stop attacking while they were opposition and they took their own cleverly as soon as they arrived at the government. Therefore, take note of our advice on border and CIE treatment of immigrants and make them your own as well. Our prison institutions also require your attention, Minister. In these years they have had a cut of 1,400 troops, but in reality they need 3,000 more than they have today because there are finished and unopened facilities in Soria, Malaga, Ceuta and Valencia and, above all, in Alicante, where we have one of the few modules for mothers with small children closed. In addition, the therapeutic and educational unit of Asturias Prison is in a very precarious situation. You get rid of the harassment and destruction strategies you're suffering. Minister, you have great challenges ahead of you and will demand a drastic correction in the direction that the Ministry of the Interior followed until you arrived. The radical change that has taken place in the political dome of his ministry seems to point in that direction. If so, I congratulate you on that. The rights of the Spaniards need it, but also their security. The cut in freedoms applied by Mr Fernández Díaz did not reduce crime, rather it was on the contrary. This improvement that they have so much advertised is, above all, a statistical effect resulting from the disappearance of the faults in the new Penal Code. Therefore, our right to good public security has also been curtailed. Over the past four years, the budget for this has decreased by EUR 500 million and the number of police and guards to secure it by around 20,000. However, you passed a new private security law that gives the sector, according to business leaders, hope to develop new fields in which to work. I confess that I did not understand very well what it meant until I remembered a phrase from Mr Ansuátegui, government delegate in Madrid with Mr Aznar: The one who wants security to pay for it! And the one who can't pay for it, what does he do? I say this because they keep increasing some of the crimes that most sense of insecurity create among citizens: the forced theft of homes and the malicious murders and murders. To deal with an effective way we need to increase the human resources of our guards and police officers, their legal security, by letting the Military Penal Code apply to civilian guards in their daily work, material means such as personal bulletproof vests, police stations, decent barracks and even enough petrol. Guards and police must be given the most modern means to improve their effectiveness and safeguard their life and physical integrity. It will never be possible to replace the lack of public agents well equipped with the increasing advertising offered by the media of alarms or similar media of private companies. As Harvard professor Michael J. Sandel says - and forgive my English -: in security, money makes differences; that is, it increases inequality even more. We are also not the safest Spaniards today when we travel by highways and roads. After more than a decade of falling victims by accidents, they have begun to increase last year. For more than thirty years we had not had two summers followed by an increase in accidents and we already have them. You have a long way to go, Minister. For example, it has an obligation to preserve the State's confessionality in such a sensitive area as the training of our police. It does not seem to be very consistent with our Constitution to hand over to a private confessional university, such as the Catholic university of Ávila, the formation of our police officers and also to the detriment of a highly prestigious and traditional public such as that of Salamanca. I also warn you that this award could contravene the neutrality required of public officials, since the former Minister of the Interior was rapporteur on courses of the same and the one in charge of inaugurating the interuniversity congress of that university dedicated to Santa Teresa. He cooked it and he ate it. As the saint of Avila would say, the former minister walked in all the pitfalls. Another of its main security challenges and that of the Spaniards is that of terrorism. Socialists have been loyal to all governments in this area, in the face of any terrorism, from ETA, jihadist or any other sign. I assure you that this line of action is going to be the one that continues to mark our initiative. We have already done so with the agreement to strengthen unity in defense of freedoms and fight against jihadist terrorism and we continue to assume that it is the Government of Spain that is responsible for leading the anti-terrorist struggle. Terrorism, ladies and gentlemen, is a state problem. The unity of the parliamentary forces led us to defeat ETA among all. The security forces and bodies, the judges, the prosecutor's office, the victims and their example, and the vast majority of Spanish society did so. I must also remember that ETA was defeated militaryly and politically five years ago, and at that time was President of Spain Mr Zapatero, Minister of the Interior, Mr Rubalcaba, and Mr Lehendakari, Mr Patxi López, the three socialists. Minister, I'm finishing up. It must be made clear to you that our commitment is to any terrorism, including that of the anarchist or the extreme right. I ask you to pay special attention to the latter, because the advance of the alternative right, that is, the extreme right of all life, often insufflates violent spirits of that ideology, which sometimes manifest themselves with actions such as those we saw in the celebration of the past 20-N in Madrid. He also has our support for not giving that terrorism a headquarters, while we ask him to activate all the resources of his ministry to arrest the aggressors of last Sunday. Finally, Minister, I finish as I started. We expect from you the complete clarification of the practices of harassment and political espionage that the previous Interior team carried out against political opponents and members of the police who serve only the law. This House has approved a Commission of Inquiry which should serve to clarify what has happened and to demand the corresponding political responsibilities. His duty is to collaborate actively with her, and I ask her to do so, for what we already know and for what continues to come out, because today, Your Honor, we are being told about the manufacture of a fake Watergate to benefit the PP, as she reports... [[Shows a press clipping with Mr. Cosidó's photograph]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u191	Mr. Trevín, you've got to finish, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u192	Yes, President. Cosidó filed a false Watergate case to try to harm the PSOE. Minister, what we expect from you is a defence of the rule of law until its ultimate consequences. To do this, to dialogue, to achieve improvements for the State Security Forces and Bodies and, ultimately, for all citizens, count on us. The security challenges facing Spain require a very high dose of responsibility. We are willing to provide it, I assure you, of course, without any previous gag. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Trevín. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u194	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is a satisfaction for me, being aware of the responsibility for the position I hold, to meet today before this rostrum to answer Mr Trevín in the question he has made to me today about the government's policy to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens. Let me tell you - because I know of your ability and also of your experience in different administrations; also your political vocation, I recognize it - that no doubt more than an inquiry seems to you to have used the first appearance that is always allowed to any minister to come to establish what are the main lines or essential points that you will have when dealing with your responsibility to the head, in this case, of the Ministry of the Interior. However, Mr Trevín, it is true that we have to talk about the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards, as well as their guarantee. Many aspects have been mentioned in this very complete inquiry, including aspects of the personal plan of the Minister of the Interior who preceded me in office. You'll understand that he's not going in there. I disagree both with the generic statement you made of the former minister and with the approach of some laws that you have had the dignity and honour to comment here. In addition, I tell you one thing: I do not share some of the data that you have put on the table. With this interpellation we are asked to repeal the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, the supposed limitation of the rights and freedoms of citizens - I quote literally - also refers to asylum seekers, to living conditions in detention centres for foreigners, in the CIEs, to the needs that the Ministry of the Interior has pending from penitentiary institutions with the various prisons and their staff and has addressed the application of the regulations to the Civil Guard in some respect. There are a lot of issues that you have put on the table, but it is also true that it shapes your vocation to reach a compromise, to an agreement on issues such as public security. It has been described as an essential element - I have noted - for the exercise of rights and freedoms. In short, as I said at the beginning of my speech, Mr Trevín, a whole list of priorities or basic lines of a ministry for an entire legislature. As you will understand, I have no problem - as I have said from the outset - in talking to you about these matters; indeed, we will all do so together, but I also want to ask your lordship to understand. I want to be very clear. Last Friday, five of them took office, including the Secretary of State, the Director General of the Police and the Director General of the Civil Guard. Well, since that day we are working intensively to review and at the same time update the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior and I confess from the outset that it is my unequivocal intention to make available to the spokesmen of the various groups of this House this first approximation to what the objectives of the Ministry should be in this legislature. All this I want to do before the traditional first appearance that all government ministers will do before our parliamentary committees. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I will come to this appearance with the priorities worked with all of you, with all the groups, trying to reach the maximum consensus on as many of the objectives as possible that we have set ourselves and defining those issues that will need intensive negotiation in order to be able to define other priorities, more priorities if necessary. Let me therefore try today to give you an answer by not making the appearance of general guidelines of the department, for which I will be summoned according to the rule that governs in this House, there I will degenerate the objectives of the next legislature. I was telling you, Mr. Trevín, I want to be clear. I will dialogue with you until exhaustion, being aware that we are faced with state policies that are fundamental to our constitutional order. That must govern all negotiations. As everyone knows, the most relevant mission of the Ministry of the Interior focuses - you have made it clear - on effectively guaranteeing the fundamental rights and freedoms recognized in the Constitution, rights always exercised within the framework of the law, as it has to be, and making them compatible with the exercise of the rights of other citizens. Our Constitution, already in 1978, the so-called Constitution of Concord, established that the task of the State Security Forces and Bodies is nothing but to guarantee our rights and freedoms, and nothing more, and it is precisely Article 104 that entrusts these forces with the essential mission of protecting the free exercise of rights and freedoms, while at the same time guaranteeing citizens' security, which, as you well know, was later developed by Organic Law 2/1986. Police and civilian guards are dedicated to this in body and soul. Every day they carry out their functions and they are the ones who get with their effort that Spain is an increasingly safe, freer country - as it should be - and with greater social well-being. Ladies and gentlemen, the team that I have just formed this week comes with a vocation of service - as I acknowledge to all those who have been - but with a clear mandate of understanding and dialogue with the other political forces. Any of the problems that I have just stated in the formulation of this answer that I am giving to your question, we must address them through a democratic dialogue, but provided that the dialogue is put forward constructively and in order to achieve the greatest benefits for the well-being of each and every citizen. In the endless effort for agreement and in the ongoing search for consensus, the political forces will always find this minister and the entire team. On the other hand, I also propose to banish judgments made a priori - which are too much done - as well as statements that encourage or justify conduct that promote not precisely the search for agreement, but the differences in public life and, above all, among those we are in public life. Ladies and gentlemen, the question put by the Socialist Group is constantly about the restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. I don't think so. I can strongly assure you that the Government of which I am a party is not going to promote any legal reform that restricts citizens' rights. And with the same firmness I deny that the previous government has done so, and now I will say why. Ladies and gentlemen, we can have different perspectives on which to approach reality and different points of view to observe it, but your ladies and gentlemen will agree with me that it will always be more useful for citizens to sit down and talk, because that is the way we have to improve people's freedoms. That is always much better than sitting down and talking about phrases made and effective headlines that do not seek to improve the social well-being of all citizens. I sincerely believe that every step that has been taken and every legislative reform that has been adopted by the governments of the People's Party has always sought to ensure that all citizens can enjoy their freedoms, in many cases adapting to the reality and the current normative times and laws of several decades of existence that necessarily had to be adapted. The Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security adopted in 2015 was an initiative that was born to strengthen public freedoms, as it perfectly disregards the field of rights - for example, those of assembly and demonstration - of violent, vandalistic and insolidary conduct. Therefore, it does not restrict the exercise of freedoms for any Spanish citizen nor has it prohibited the exercise of the rights of assembly or demonstration. The very passing of the months since the entry into force of this law has shown this. I'll give you some data, too. Since the law that supposedly ends the right of demonstration in front of this seat of popular sovereignty, which is the Congress of Deputies, there have been nineteen demonstrations and fourteen rallies, one of which, by the way, was held on the same Saturday as the investiture debate in which President Rajoy was elected. They have been held and there has been no problem at all. Therefore, based on the common diagnosis of the need to have a law that protects the safety of citizens and that is adapted to the reality and of a Spanish society that has changed a lot since 1992, we need to talk about the specific aspects that the different groups consider to be likely to be improved. They have my hand stretched out and my will to reach agreements that are good for all. The detention centres for foreigners. Of course, we will have to continue to improve and adapt the detention centres for foreigners, as has been done over the past few years, but it will agree with me that the requirements for entry are much stricter than those required in countries in our environment and that no one can, of course, give us lessons in this regard. I also recognize that there has been some altercation in recent weeks and, as I said earlier, a protocol is being developed to see security and how the functions of civilian personnel and intervention units, which are being taken care of and monitored in some centres, need to be distributed. And if we are also talking about the right of asylum and refugees themselves, I must say that it is clear that the Government, and therefore this minister, has adhered to the commitments that our country has made within the European Union, from the scrupulous respect for European and international legality. Spain acts and will continue to act with responsibility and solidarity in the face of a phenomenon which, it will agree with me, is not temporary; the arrival of refugees in Europe is a huge problem that we all face. As I said at the beginning of my intervention, the Civil Guard and the National Police are guarantors of the free exercise of our freedoms and rights. They are servants of all citizens and have always been at the service of society, whoever has ruled has ruled. I am convinced that so much self-denial for others must be matched by the public authorities with better working conditions and specific to each of them. We will also work there to be able to improve these conditions. I'm done. For about forty years we have been at a stage that we can summarise as great economic and social progress, a stage in which, since the transition, we have been able to make much progress together.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u195	Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u196	I'm done, Mr. President. He said that we have been able to move forward together, we have dialogued and big agreements have been reached. I think it is time to resume those principles that taught us all a lesson in 1978. We can and must improve things, but all citizens must know that the Government to which I am a party will work tirelessly so that they can enjoy the full exercise of their fundamental rights, an exercise in freedom and, of course, with security for themselves and for all. My hand is stretched out.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u197	Mr Trevín Lombán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I hope that in future proposals our level of coincidence will be higher than in our analysis of the past. I understand that you have a heavy inheritance - indeed it is a heavy inheritance that you have received, Minister - and that you cannot recognize me any of the obvious facts of the Interior in the last five years. Three are the fundamentals. The Ministry of the Interior, from the year 2012 to the present, at the end of 2016, we summarize it in: espionages and dwindling rights; cuts, with fewer guards and less police and worse equipped, and increasing insecurity in our homes and on our roads. I'm going to refer to the first thing. You cannot deny me the acts of espionage, you cannot deny them now for a reason, because already an Administration of the People's Party itself, the autonomous of Madrid, has just recognized that people of that Administration, being President Esperanza Aguirre and paid for by that Government, have spyed on politicians of the People's Party. [[Show a document]] If you've been spying on each other, what you won't have done with the others. And I tell you that it is not a socialist denunciation now, but a recognition in the judicial field of a People's Party administration. But there are also judicial decisions that you will understand well: 'Justice cancels the cessation of a commissioner by seeing a Member of the PSOE'. It's just that there was a stoppage of two people for having coffee with me and appearing in a photo in the daily La Razón. What did the judges say? The judges point out that the only thing that is accredited is that he was dismissed after the meeting with the socialist spokesman in the Internal Affairs Commission was published. Justice believes that the decision of then number two of the National Police, Eugenio Pino, had no justification and that the only thing accredited is that Telesforo Rubio was removed from his responsibilities in the area of human resources three days after the newspaper La Razón published his meeting with the socialist parliamentarian. The other Commissioner was similar, he was replaced three days later with a single argument: Loss of confidence and for not meeting properly. Minister, of course there has been a reduction in rights in the past five years in the Ministry of the Interior. And the central element that we need to talk about is the law of gags, the law of citizen security. This law is increasing one of the aspects that is giving rise to greater criticism for Spain of international organizations. The International Labour Organization is absolutely alarmed because criminal sanctions are being imposed for acts of strike and says in one of its resolutions about us: 'Of the eighty-five proceedings opened in Spain in 2014, none of them corresponded to acts of violence'. ILO requests explanations from the Government for cases in which trade union representatives have been convicted only for being convicted and without any violent acts. What do you mean, there has been no loss of rights in our country, Minister? And the cuts in the scope of the Police and Civil Guard templates are obvious. I'm going to give you two examples. There are government delegations and sub-delegations - which are the great element of the State's presence in the territory - who cannot have 24 hours of police surveillance because they have no troops. I quote the case of a neighbor a week ago who arrived at a Civil Guard barracks in the surroundings of Madrid because he was eating at his house, heard noises on the first floor, went up and met a gentleman trying to enter. He fled in a car, but took his license plate and went to the barracks, where there was only one guard answering the phone. When he finished talking, he said, "Hey, I have to go to eat, I'm so sorry. Leave me if you want a paper with the data and I will call you; we don't give enough, you don't know how many complaints we have similar to yours. Not only is there not enough staff to deal with a situation of home insecurity fundamentally, minister, which is what most insecurity creates in the citizenry, but on many occasions there is not enough petrol to patrol the necessary time and kilometres with vehicles. I'm done. I am particularly concerned about the insecurity on our roads because we also need a state pact there. There has been some way; there is an agreement of all that it is necessary to continue, one of the most important achievements that we as a country have shown in the last ten years: to systematically reduce the number of accidents and deaths on the road and to achieve the objectives set by the European Union long before anyone else. But it's broken; we've been growing for two years. As I was telling you, there has been no evidence for 30 years that the number of accidents and deaths on the road has increased for two consecutive summers. Well, in 2015 there was more than in 2014 and in 2016 there was more than in 2015.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u199	Mr. Trevin, you've got to get to the bottom of this. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your flexibility. I do not want to exhaust the patience of the President, let alone the patience of the other Members at this hour of the morning. So, Minister, we have a lot to go on, we have a chance to agree on substantial aspects for the lives of the Spaniards, but for that we have to recognise where we are going and the situation is this, Minister, it is no idyllic situation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u201	To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. I apologize for the tone of voice, but I don't have another, it's impossible. Mr Trevín, I will confess to you that when I have heard you now for the second time I have thought: we are looking to the past. I understand that you always have to rely on something from the past to analyse the present well and look with great perspectives and much illusion and optimism at the future, but you have come to paint a Ministry of the Interior, a citizen security and too black police forces, Mr Trevín, and I recognize that you have surprised me, precisely because of that capacity that I have recognized you at the beginning of my intervention, but also because of the experience that you treasure after exercising positions of great responsibility. Because to use some example that may be curious or anecdotal is to ridicule in part - and forgive me for saying so - the functions and above all the responsibility of the State Security Forces and Bodies. [[Applauds]] It is true that they make an effort and a sacrifice, and I believe that the work they are doing should not be underestimated. I'll be very clear. I want to look to the future, but it is also true that I am not going to consent, without at least having the right to debate and debate, to say a few things about the impending past. On the past that has just happened, I can tell you that I know the minister and I know the illusion and the work with which he has been exercising his responsibilities. You see it differently; I see it that way. Look, I could also speak today, because we all have memories of other stages that you socialists have had in the Ministry of the Interior when prominent socialists have had that responsibility. Well, I'm not gonna do it. I'll point it out, but I'm not gonna do it. Why? Because I think it is worth looking to the future by being aware of the situation we are experiencing in the present. And look, honestly, if there's one thing I'm passionate about is reducing traffic accidents. There too, we will devote ourselves with great effort, especially to designing plans that will result in a reduction in the tragedies that occur on the road. And we will also continue - before I have not defeated it because I have understood that they were common spaces - in the defence of the dignity and memory of the victims of terrorism and of that Counter-Terrorism Pact that we must continue to maintain. [[Applauds]] I believe that these are common issues where we have been able to reach an agreement. Today I come down from this rostrum knowing that if we have reached an agreement on those points, we will also be able to reach others. I hope for a transparent and clear negotiation, with a desire for dialogue to reach agreement with the rest of the political forces and that together we will achieve a Spain in freedom where the Spaniards can exercise their rights and freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-23-CD161123.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. After the debate on the agenda, the meeting rose. It was one in the afternoon.
