ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the agenda item on the report of the Ombudsman's Office on the management carried out during 2015. [[Rumors.]] A little silence, please. As you know, in accordance with the rules of procedure, discussions will begin once the Ombudsman has completed the presentation of her report, and the position-setting time at that time will be ten minutes per group. For the presentation of a summary of the report, the Ombudsman, Ms Soledad Becerril Bustamante, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. On behalf of the constitutional institution of the Ombudsman of Spain, I present the summary of the report for 2015. It is the institution's intention to submit these reports annually as quickly as possible, and to conclude the exercise, with the aim that the analysis of these documents will enable its members to know some of the problems that exist between citizens, their opinion and what they have brought to the institution of the Ombudsman during that exercise. As your honors know, the institution has no executive or enforcement capacity. It is an institution that must persuade with its arguments, with its reasons, with reasoned reasons to the public administrations to modify or rectify or initiate actions that the citizens have asked us to do. In addition, in view of the facts we diagnose through complaints made by citizens, we make proposals, ex officio actions, reports, studies - which we of course send to your lords, to the people who make up the Joint Commission for Relations with the Ombudsman - where recommendations are also made to public administrations. The competences of this institution are maximal if we relate them to those of other similar institutions in democratic countries, of course. We are a national human rights institution, as established by the United Nations, with the highest rating, rating A; our action in the field of human rights is reviewed by the United Nations, and we are - by the mandate of this House in 2009 - a national institution for the prevention of torture, inhuman or degrading treatment. These powers allow us to be vigilant, very attentive in the field of human rights, and at the same time to have relations as an institution with other European defenders, of the Mediterranean, especially now, and Ibero-Americans, and many of the Ibero-Americans have inspired their - as they call them - ombudsmen in the law regulating the institution of the Ombudsman in Spain. The 2015 report covers the number of complaints received by the institution, and has been almost 18,000: 17,822. This figure is lower than in 2014, when, together with 2013, a very large number of people went to the institution to complain that they had been abolished part of the extra pay for 2012. There have been innumerable complaints - as one of your ladies and gentlemen who participated in the Joint Commission in that legislature will recall - and this claim has no longer occurred in view of the fact that the budgets have been included, and I believe that this year includes a payment to the officials of the part of the payment that was not made in 2012. As many of these complaints - the 17,822 I have mentioned - are signed by many people, by reviewing these data we have seen that there are more than 55,000 who, by one procedure or another, have addressed the institution of the Ombudsman. When reviewing and giving these figures we try to be quite strict, and we do not count as complaints the mere queries that a person can make by phone or the resolution of a doubt, although they are recorded, but not as complaints. For us the complaint already means an action by the institution, that is, to initiate an action or a procedure. It's not about increasing the numbers so they're too high, it's not that. The institution must achieve resolution, effectiveness, rectification, etc. It is not a question of giving very high magnitudes, that would not lead to anything at all. We are making an assessment of the satisfaction of the citizens who are addressing the Ombudsman. We can obtain this information from the new tools with which we have been equipped for work. As your honourable Members saw in the Commission last week, the website allows a person to address himself electronically to the Ombudsman, make a consultation or complaint, receive a reply, know how long it has taken to process his complaint, how long the administration is taking, what the administration's response is and whether it is satisfactory or not. In the light of this data, we can also afford to know whether the people waiting for a response from the Ombudsman are satisfied with the action. We are starting these surveys that we do every quarter, and there are two issues that seem relevant to us. Firstly, there is a high percentage of those who answer us, 64%, who say that they would recommend a person known to them to address the Ombudsman. There are 51% of respondents who tell us that the language we speak to citizens is simple and understandable. This seems interesting to us, because many times the administrations have a tendency to what I said the other day in the Commission, which is to the language of wood - as the French say - that absolutely impenetrable language which can say anything, but of course not understandable to the vast majority of citizens. I will mention - because in this exhibition we could not make a thorough review of this annual memory - to your ladies and gentlemen some of the problems that the citizens have brought to us most intensely. Since there is the Minister of Justice I will tell you that - although the figures have varied - there are still numerous complaints about delays in justice and some views that are already in place for the years 2018 and 2019. And speaking also of problems related to the administration of justice and also to the Ministry of the Interior in this case, I have to say that there is concern about the mail vote of people residing abroad. They have already sent it to us before the last election calls, and it would certainly be advisable to review the legislation, which must be a guarantor, which must ensure that there is no fraud in voting by mail, but that there are possibilities or relative facilities for issuing such voting by mail. We have been very concerned over the course of this year - and we certainly share it with your ladies and gentlemen - about the problems relating to gender-based violence. I think it would be useful to review the elements or data indicating risk when a person, primarily a woman, communicates to the police or reports to the telephone of gender-based violence about their circumstances, because on many occasions there are people who report, who communicate a situation and then do not want to ratify it. That may indicate that there are some circumstances that should be reviewed. For us too - for a long time, not only in this exercise - the persecution of trafficking in human beings, of those persons or groups engaged in trafficking in human beings has been important. We have been in constant contact with non-governmental organizations that also help in this area, and I must say that the interest of the National Police and the Civil Guard is maximum and extreme in finding, diagnosing and pursuing these networks. We have issued a number of reports on this subject, we have shown in the Commission videos of testimonies of women who have been in the hands of these networks, and any international police cooperation is fundamental to persecuting these people who exploit human beings, who come to Spain and are absolutely in the hands of these networks. I know that your ladies and gentlemen have also been concerned about the problems relating to the electricity bill - we could talk about these issues for a long time - to the cuts. Town halls should take initiatives and social services should be aware of when a cut is going to take place before it takes place, to know the circumstances in which that family might be. We have acted throughout this year, and also in previous years - they are actions that extend over several years - in economic and financial matters to diagnose problems of people, of families who have purchased financial products in a misleading way by financial institutions. We have met with families who have subscribed to preferential participations without the least knowledge of the product they were acquiring. It has been possible - and I must also point out what has been achieved - for the National Securities Market Commission and the Banco de España to urge financial institutions to point out the risk of each product. We asked for colours to indicate this risk; I think it will be otherwise, but there will be indicators that allow anyone, who does not have to have knowledge of the financial system and its products, to be warned of the possible risk or difficulty of a product. It seems to us that this is an important improvement. In concluding this review, I will mention nothing more than the concern of many citizens - our citizens, of course, too - for dwellings that have a protected housing character and are empty in autonomous communities and municipalities, especially in the middle and the large, and for which there is a significant demand. We have worked with all the autonomous communities, with the large municipalities, and we see that there is a willingness to have, first, a general record of what an empty dwelling is, of what time it is possible to qualify that sheltered dwelling as empty, and secondly, what the local administration or the autonomous can do to put on the market, before the list of plaintiffs, that dwelling essentially under rent and at an affordable price, which in no case exceeds 30% of the family's income. I end up doing a brief review of some performances. We have produced, in collaboration with the defenders of the Autonomous Communities, an interesting document on hospital emergencies. It has taken us a long time this document, almost two years, because it had to be coordinated with all the defenders, to have multiple meetings with specialists in the field from different places, from different communities, and it is a document designed to protect the rights of patients, the privacy, the information they receive and their families, as well as the treatment and treatment in hospital emergencies. I believe that the members of the Commission are familiar with this document, which we believe is of interest. As I mentioned at the beginning, as a national mechanism for the prevention of torture, we visited detention centres, in the usual terminology short, medium and long stay centres. We made visits - I also made these visits - most of the times accompanied by specialists, technicians who do not belong to the institution, but are nominated by professional schools: psychologists, psychiatrists, penalists and other people who accompany us; visits that last three, four or five days to study well the conditions of the center, the interns, the facilities that they can have for their daily life, for their relationship with the outside, etc. I was asked in the Commission about this matter and about the situation of people in detention centres in Spain, and I said - I must repeat this to your ladies and gentlemen - that if at any time we see or see evidence that there may be ill-treatment or offenses, we immediately bring it to the attention of the prosecution. But I say in this Congress of Deputies that in Spain there is no torture, there can be no torture in a democratic state; in Spain there is no torture, as in Spain there are no political prisoners. I remember, being a young Member of the First Legislature, before the constitution, the generous Amnesty Law of 15 October 1977, very generous and extraordinarily expanded, which had the unanimous support of the House, because it was an Amnesty Law that emanated from the House itself, and from that moment there was no political prisoner in Spain. We are also currently doing two studies that may be of interest to your ladies and gentlemen; one, at the request of the Congress of Deputies itself at the end of the previous parliamentary term, on human rights and victims of ETA terrorism. We always support the demands - and we fully understand many of them - of the victims of ETA and that is why we are working on it. The other work is on asylum and the conditions under which asylum applications are processed in Spain, what are the difficulties in processing, what are the steps, how they can be speeded up, how they can be resolved in a time acceptable to the people who are in those circumstances. I think we will have completed this document before June. In conclusion, I would like to mention a matter which I am aware of - because I have followed your speeches and your views - which is of great concern to you, which is the refugee crisis; a crisis for which the European Union was not and I do not know whether it is prepared at the moment. Of course, the European Union's treatment of persons seeking international protection or asylum must be guided by the principle of defending human rights, international law and European Union law. This must be borne in mind in all the proceedings. There can be no collective returns under any principle, and special attention must be paid to minors and persons in a vulnerable situation. The number of unaccompanied minors who are arriving and who are disappearing after a few days of stay somewhere, after their arrival, is of great concern. The number of people that Spain should host in the coming months and throughout this year and the next one allows for their reception, as well as putting in place the necessary means for their resettlement or settlement. It's not too much of a figure. I believe that with the collaboration of autonomous communities, large municipalities and the General Administration of the State this can be organized. Of course Spain, like other countries, must now pay attention and help to Greece and Italy, to the centres that are receiving the greatest number of migrants, to people who have been fleeing the war fundamentally. And our help, apart from economics, can and must be from technicians who know how to process and act to direct these people who are seeking asylum to different parts of the European Union. There are centers of attention in all countries, mainly in Italy and Greece, to which we can direct these experts - officials on most occasions - to assist in this task, which is complex and delicate. We have been seeing a part of this process, of this reception, because we have been in a refugee camp near Haman, in Zaatari, where there are 79,000 people living - it is an important average city, as there are in Spain -, eleven schools, a clinic and doctors - is also Doctors without Borders -; Spanish cooperation is there working, in addition to the Government of Jordan. They are people who are going to be two or three years in this field and we know that the processing of their applications is somewhat complex because they have different circumstances and come from different places. That's why all this work is not easy, but we can help. Spain can greatly help accelerate the processes so that all these people who want to leave these places - they will be humanitarian but not for a lifetime - can reach other countries, including Spain. The decision of the European Commission to set up a European asylum agency is a good decision because the coordination of all countries and common action in this field is absolutely essential to prevent the closure of borders - as we have seen with the sudden closure of the border between Macedonia and Serbia and the return of those who were walking towards Serbia - and absolutely unacceptable behaviour, such as throwing gases at people who are waiting to cross a fence, or raising walls. It can't be, it's unacceptable. It's a human drama in which these people, these families are buried. We have to treat them very differently. The European Union needs to take extreme care and attention to everything that's going on. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude this speech. I have told the Members of the Commission that we are at their absolute disposal to send them more information, to extend it to them or to explain to them any aspect that may give rise to doubt, and I repeat it at this time. Your Honor, the social, democratic and legal state that the Spaniards have given us, for which so much has been fought, has been achieved and which seems to me exemplary, has an effective, capable institution, which does not receive pressure, which is not subject to certain political circumstances, which is absolutely independent, appreciated by a large number of citizens and is at the full disposal of everyone who comes to us to defend their rights and freedoms. The deputies to the Ombudsman and myself, as well as all those who work in the institution, are at their full disposal and happy to be able to count - I say this not by my person but by the institution - on an institution that is respected, valued and appreciated. [[Don Francisco Fernández Marugán, whom his lordships know, and Dona Concepó Ferrer, whom they also know]] [[170]] I hope that this will continue for many years, regardless of whether I am the Ombudsman at the moment, although she will also have her limits and time, as is mandatory. Thank you all, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Becerril. Many thanks to the Ombudsman's Office, part of which accompanies us here today in the rostrum, for its work and for presenting this summary of the 2015 report. Now, at the time of the fixing of positions, Mrs Oramas intervenes, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ombudsperson, and I also associate myself with her, as a member of the Joint Group, I have only five minutes, so after reading the whole report, I was going to focus my intervention exclusively on the issue of child poverty, because I had to choose one, but I am going to use one minute for three issues that you have outlined and on which the Canarian nationalists have always maintained a battle, a struggle and a defence in this Chamber. First is the vote of the residents abroad, in which Coalition Canaria has been active. We opposed the law along with United Left, we were the only parties. The Socialist Group has already acknowledged the error and we hope that in the next parliamentary term those Spaniards, like all the others, will be able to exercise the right to vote. Their reflection has also been important on the issue of gender-based violence. I must admire the fact that you, as Ombudsman, have made it clear that the situation with the refugees is unacceptable, with regard to the centres and the situation in Greece and Italy, and with the example that the situation in Jordan and Lebanon, which have millions of people in their homes, represents for all of humanity. We have, above all, called for direct action by the Government of the State, not only in the fulfilment of its European commitments, but also with decisive action, especially with regard to minors, as Save the Children and Unicef have denounced. Yesterday, the Government of Germany said that there were 6,000 minors arriving in that country who had disappeared, 150 unaccompanied children in the centre of Lesbos and more than 1,500 children in a detention centre, although European and international standards said they did not have to be there. We're going to continue this battle, and I'm glad she mentioned it. We are concerned about the report you have produced on the situation of children in our country, which is deeper and can irremediably tarnish your future, your life expectancy and your relationship with the environment. I am referring to child poverty, that of the children of this country. Within the huge gap that exists between the different layers of our society and that the crisis has taken care to widen even further, I must confess that I am extremely concerned about the situation of these little ones, who, as always, are the weakest and most vulnerable part of Spain. That is why I can only thank your office for its attention to child poverty, its consequences, as well as for your department's oversight of the action of public administrations to have placed special emphasis on school dining as in previous years. His report called for the establishment of a food guarantee scheme for children and adolescents, which included measures in non-educational periods, owing to the finding that minimum income systems were not very agile, insufficient for potential beneficiaries and did not ensure their employment in the feeding of minors. Within this lack of protection to which minors who are at risk of social exclusion are exposed is the possibility of not receiving the necessary daily food contributions, which, in addition to being a harsh and improper reality of a developed country like ours, influences their school performance, their growth and - what is worse - their health. In this sense, as the President of the Government of the Canary Islands recently stressed, expectations have improved, but they still coexist with a reality that we cannot hide; this reality that I knew very closely as mayor of San Cristóbal de la Laguna, and above all that it has a face. It is very necessary on such sensitive issues to put face to numbers and statistics. In this case, the saddest face of poverty in Spain is that of the children who suffer it. It is everyone's job to break the cycle of disadvantages; it is common work from each of the social parties and collectives, from this House, but also from each of the country's institutions, to work as hard as possible to implement policies to combat poverty and social exclusion of the youngest. I am sure that no member of this House will disagree with what I say, we must work to give those children a hope of breaking the circle in which they are in order to move forward. You have to give them the life they deserve. We're doing it, but we have to do it more and better, much better. Energy poverty affects children, and in the end this society has to be everyone's. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Martinez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u6	Mr. President, good morning. I greet, on behalf of the Forum, Soledad Becerril and in his person, the entire team that is part of the institution of the Ombudsman, expressing our agreement in the respect and consideration that the work of this institution has always fallen among the Spaniards, despite its being a very complex task that often faces extremely delicate issues. The shortness of my speech obliges me to focus on a few issues that concern only my community of origin, but it is reassuring to note that in 2015 the number of complaints originating in the Principality of Asturias has decreased in relation to the previous year. My party supported the removal in 2014 of the autonomic figure approved by the Ombudsman and you cannot imagine the series of calamities that the supporters of the continuity of the Attorney General's Office, which, by the way, was selected in 2006 in the political consensus that has historically supported the choice of this high responsibility everywhere. I note in the annual report that this abolition has not had a multiplier effect on complaints from Asturias to the Ombudsman, which have even decreased from 384 to 356. From the 2015 report, I find that the Principality is one of the two autonomous governments to which the Ombudsman had to make a third request to answer on a matter. As an Asturian and former deputy of the General Board, I regret this lack of cooperation from the Infrastructure Board, which on the other hand does not surprise anyone, it would be said to be the norm of the house. Some of the topics on Asturias contained in the report are recurrent; there is one well-known: the case of the therapeutic and educational unit of the Villabona prison. The Ombudsman, who already made a specific recommendation on the matter in 2014, has had to remind those responsible for our penal institutions of the need to respect the approaches of intervention in the terms indicated by the officials who at the time created a model UTE. This reminder to the Ombudsman is supported. Also the plenary of the General Board of the Principality three weeks ago focused on the denunciation of the progressive dismantling of the Villabona drug-free space, which has been suffering for three years and which is clearly to the detriment of inmates, as proof of the progressive increase in incidents and trafficking in substances. In our view, what has been happening in Asturias is an inexplicable breakdown of the constitutional mandate for the social reintegration of prisoners. I would also like to refer to the issue raised about residential establishments in Asturias that depend on the Principality and the extemporaneous astronomical bills that have been paid to their families long after the death of the elderly. For a matter of basic respect for the rights of our elders, I urge the Ombudsman to delve deeper into this unfortunate matter, which is an undesirable consequence of a unit law driven without resources and which has caught many families in a situation of absolute defencelessness, unaware of the voracious collectors and autonomous managers who, moreover, have already recognized in the face of social scandal errors of much bulk and also show a brutal lack of sensitivity that has caused great indignation among those close to the elderly. The report refers to the events in the juvenile centre of Sograndio, which depends on the Principality of Asturias, and to the various suggestions from the Ombudsman which have had a relative impact. In fact, incidents have persisted in this first quarter of the year, so the complaints of security guards remain in force. Finally, the annual report reminds us that the neighbors of the town of Santa Marina de Piedramuelle, in Oviedo, remain physically divided for more than a decade because of the lack of a walkway on the highway that the Ministry of Development committed and planned, but never built. This shows one of the persistent obstacles to the institution of the Ombudsman, often with delays on the part of the administrations to which the reply is sought and sometimes by clashing with the lethargy in order to meet the commitments that these same administrations make to the citizens and that they end up not fulfilling. In any case, my appreciation of the Ombudsman's great usefulness in bringing solutions and hope to many of the cases before him and to whom we owe his high contribution to a better democracy for all Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ombudsperson and deputies, good morning to you all. As you are well aware, the Office of the Ombudsman has as its function the non-jurisdictional guarantee of the rights of all persons in their relations with public administrations, derived from Organic Law 3/1981 of 6 April, which gives them these functions. The Ombudsman's Office can act on its own initiative without having received any complaint, obviously also based on complaints from citizens, and the Constitution also gives this institution the legitimacy to institute remedies of constitutional unconstitutionality and amparo, as well as to institute habeas corpus procedures. It bases its decisions in law and somehow prevents the claimant from resorting to a judicial process that, as we all know, can be costly and time-consuming. These are, let's say, the functions of the people's defendership that you know perfectly well. What this is about right now is to analyze the memory of 2015, and in this case we are also thinking about the effectiveness of the work of the Ombudsman's Office. She's presented us with a report. Last week we had a session in the Commission at which she appeared much longer and longer than today and the parliamentary groups were able to express themselves; I think this will not be much different from what we can do here today. We can therefore see a clear question. Irrespective of the specific complaints that may arise from many issues that, like the report in detail, there is a political motivation in one element: many complaints stem from the political decisions that have been taken in this Parliament in the past parliamentary term, from laws that have been passed in this Parliament alone and exclusively with the support of the People's Group. This has had consequences for society in the areas of justice, public security, economic security, etc., which have consequently led to a lot of people having to resort to the Ombudsman to solve problems arising from those bad laws that have been passed in this Congress. Of course, the report presents to us in detail by area the complaints, suggestions and contributions that have been made from the Office of the Ombudsman. Some issues are a little empty, and I don't know why. As far as the public administration is concerned, in the case of Euskadi there is one issue that I am very interested in, the linguistic rights of citizens and the attitudes that government delegates have had in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, the Social Security Treasury cannot be poured into languages other than Spanish, for example. With regard to printouts at the National Social Security Institute on the website, it can be seen that they are only in Spanish. As for electronic communications with different entities, we continue with the same thing: the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, for example, only has its website in Spanish. For the national identity document it is not possible to manage a previous appointment in Basque, as requested, and neither can you ask for information because - at least the one on the website - it is only in Spanish. Any Basque citizen who goes to the sub-delegation of the Government, to the delegation of Costas, for example, or to the National Police in Euskadi cannot do so in Basque because no one there will be able to attend to him. Therefore, it is not a political issue, but a negligence on the part of the Government not to provide its staff with the necessary knowledge to act in an autonomous community in which that language is official. Then we have the great persecutor of the language rights of the Basques, the delegate of the Government, who is dedicated to taking note of the records of all the peoples that are written in Basque. Won't it be the problem of those who don't understand Basque instead of those who know both languages? Whom, therefore, are denied linguistic rights, so much so that in certain autonomous communities the linguistic rights of Spanish-speaking people are being persecuted? No, no. My rights as a bilingual citizen are persecuted when I can't speak in Basque, not when I can't speak in Spanish. In this area, then, we have an important issue to highlight. On the judicial aspect - the Ombudsman herself has emphasized - many people have resorted to the Office of the Ombudsman, criticizing above all free legal aid. Counselling as a public service continues to be the subject of a complaint. The Ombudsman initiated an ex officio action after learning that the Community of Madrid, for example, had reduced the cost of free legal aid by 31%. Well, we don't know how this performance ended. The judicial delays, as the Ombudsman has said in this rostrum do nothing, are one of the serious problems facing society. A society that has a justice that takes so long cannot be said to be a justice that acts fully in accordance with what is requested of it. The Ministry of Justice - the minister has just left - was asked to increase the social courts. In response, a report was received on the measures to be taken to address the problem, but he understood that it was not necessary to create new social courts. On the other hand, the widespread delay in the clearance of business cases is considered to be a matter of concern, and proceedings have been initiated to ascertain the reasons for such delays. There is one issue in the judicial field and in other areas, which I will point out later, where the Ombudsman's Office proceeds to make a recommendation to the relevant institution and the institution responds to it that it has economic problems, and that ends there. The problem arises when he says that he has no financial resources to solve it. So what's the citizen with? What do you have to do in the face of such a situation? I assume that the response to judicial delays will be precisely a lack of staff, that there is no budget, etc. For that we are, to solve such problems and not to say what the problem is, because we already know that. In that regard, the Office of the Ombudsman must continue to insist that the problems must be solved and not only denounced. The Citizens' Security Act has created many problems as well. I would ask the Ombudsman for more boldness, more courage because she may be overzealous, cautious when it comes to telling the Government what is not doing well and what needs to be improved. I fully trust the professional work of the Ombudsman and his entire team, but I believe that there is some kind of excessive prudence in some matters. Clearly, the Citizens' Security Act has created many problems for society. The Office has made suggestions, for example, in the preparation of instructions for the practice of body searches or in instructions to ensure the interpretation and application of the most favourable way to the full realization of freedom of expression with respect to the fundamental right of information. In social policy there have also been complaints, and the response from the Government has been that as they have no budget... I want to focus a little on prison policy. I believe that the removal and the situation of sick prisoners should have been dealt with because it is important, and I have seen no question in this area. As regards torture and ill-treatment, the Ombudsman herself said here - she said the other day also in the parliamentary seat, in the relevant Commission when I asked her - that there is no torture in Spain because there can be no torture. I totally agree with the second part, the 'there can't be it'; that is, it would be an aberration that there was torture. Mrs Becerril, the very report on the state of human rights commissioned by the Government of Mariano Rajoy to a committee of experts appointed by the Presidency pointed out that the investigations carried out indicate that cases of ill-treatment are not isolated but symptoms of structural deficiencies. A committee of experts has said this, but the European Court of Human Rights has sentenced the Kingdom of Spain in six sentences to certain requirements in relation to its reluctant attitude to investigate cases of torture in the State. [[Greetings from Mr. Turrion Churches.]] Obviously, there should not be, but the problem is the denial to be investigated. What is the problem not to investigate this issue? Is there any fear? This is not the first time my group has talked about this subject, we have done it many times. Amnesty International clearly says that there are cases. I am not going to go on in this matter; you know perfectly well that we are consistent here and we are not going to allow this series of issues to happen in Spain. I don't have much left to finish. I would like to point out that, for example, in gender-based violence - it is another element that the Ombudsman herself has also pointed out - with regard to the consequences of certain actions, both judicial and police, and in the application of the law itself - more than once has been questioned here whether it should be changed or not - she has incorporated the issue of minors, which I think is very worrying because it has increased the mortality of minors in the Spanish State. Something we're doing wrong. I believe that it is not just a question of the law, but certainly of other attitudes that are taking place around this very crucial problem for society. Gender-based violence is therefore an important element that you also reflect well in your report. Finally, Mr President, if I may, I would like to mention immigrants and refugees - something that has been done about it -. The refugee crisis affecting Europe has undoubtedly marked the institution's work on migration, and the Ombudsman has called for a common and coordinated response from the European Union to tackle this crisis. I think it is perfect, I agree: we have to demand from those who have to demand; at this moment it is the Government that must act. Last week the Government told us about the attitude that the Spanish Government has taken in Europe, and we believe that there are a number of actions that must be taken and in which we do not see that the Spanish Government has really had the right impact. In the case of Turkey, giving it as a guarantor of all our rights is a kind of pantry where we want to hide what we do not want to see. Turkey is not a safe country, and we know that perfectly well. Since I have no more time left and it is nothing more than repetitions of things that my spokesman said last week in this rostrum, I will conclude. I will conclude by asking that the Ombudsman continue to work with this kind of work, that she be given more critical spirit and more inconformity when society really asks questions and that she be a sort of spearhead of what social needs demand, not only from government institutions but from society itself to respond to their needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u9	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. Mrs Ribera has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u10	Thank you, President. Greetings to the Ombudsman and the deputies accompanying her. Go my first words to address a fundamental issue that I do not want to obviate later. The issue of refugees, of which the Ombudsman spoke at the end, I put it on the table in the first place because in Catalonia, echoing the needs of the entire population displaced by force and suffering as it is suffering, resources and places have been made available to them for their reception and we have been told that we do not because we do not have competence. We hardly go when to talk about human needs we put ahead the skills. We express our full support and determination in defending these needs. Having said that, Mrs Ombudsperson, when a people is not allowed to be, where do you have to go? What defender does a town that wants to be have to come to? In 2015 I had the opportunity to come representing the Parliament of Catalonia to ask that we be allowed to express ourselves in Catalan before the Administration of Justice. The CUP told us, 'You're going to waste your time.' Because the problem is not that they don't let us express, it's that they don't let us be. Worked and with the will to do things right we came with a hope that from the beginning we already believed truncated; and so it was. Language is not a problem in Catalonia, as evidenced by the fact that they have no complaints despite what some of the PP say that they want to make merits between their ranks and despite what Citizens say, which at the cost of Catalan began to open up in Catalonia. [[Laughs.]] We have a very deep problem that, instead of joining together, separates us from the rest of the peoples of Spain. [[The lady]] How can we be trusted when we are not understood? What language do we have to speak? In what sense? I appeal to all who have good will to be heard. What tribune and what defender do we have to go to for attention? It's not just a competition issue or a resource issue; it's a will-to-be issue. We can look at what's happened in these years. If we search in Viquipèdia they will find for ten years the Catalan process. Why? Why do MPs like Ana Surra, who came to Barcelona as Uruguayan, when they arrive here become independent? Why have federations like Convergence and Union broken up and Union given way to Democrats in Catalonia, a party to which I proudly belong? Because we demand a state of our own, because we feel drowned. Mrs Defensora del Pueblo, you have the opportunity to be the Defensora de los Pueblos de España, because the Constitution is addressed to all Spaniards and to all peoples in defence of their historical rights. Why does a government present in 2013 a report on institutional inequalities that produce social inequalities and therefore affect the rights of each of the Catalans who are still Spanish, and this same government already speaks of a chronic and premeditated offensive in 2015? Why are we constantly drowning in resources? Why is the fundamental nerve, which is the language, continually being eliminated? Why are we forbidden to dive with unjust laws? Why do we feel this Constitutional Court, as my colleague Miriam Nogueras said yesterday, as a dog of prey every time we take a step, careful to see what progress we make? Energy poverty decree, zasca! The IRPF, sasca! We have been given reason in terms of the number of sentences, which have been continuously violated. Also the subject of scholarships, and I could continue to detail, but I think you already know all this and I don't even know if you care. So far there has been a very clear bipartisanship that has turned its face towards Catalonia, and now other voices, I do not know if wanting - I hope so - they are claiming that at least we are being heard and not being given the opportunity. I would very much regret to hear from us, as Carrasco i Formiguera said the day after his execution: "Woe, what good Spaniards they were and what good Spaniards they could have been!" 'Every time the bonds that unite us are smaller and our essence is at stake. If it's hard for you to understand all this, it may be easier for you if I tell it to some Toledo students who came to ask us what we were doing here in Congress. I explained it very easily: We are a family, there are many brothers. I don't know what order Catalans have in this family. It doesn't matter the gender either. I only know that we have worked with loyalty, that we want this family, that we want all the brothers, that we have worked to bring the best we have and that we have contributed and we contribute a lot, that we go out every day to work with effort, but that when we ask for resources to be able to go out to work we are no longer given, we are denied, even to be able to contribute.' But here is not the thing, when we complain, they tell us: 'Do not finish liking us. Because you don't look much like the rest of the family. Because your eyes are different in color. Put on some lentils, so we can identify you better. Ah! but it turns out that you also have a slightly different hair color. Then put on the wig.' It is no longer just a matter of being able to move forward, of having skills, of resources, but of being as we are, because good bouquets are made with flowers of all colors and not just with a type of flowers. If we're not allowed to be, this brother starts complaining, and he says, 'You can't talk to the neighbors, because you're not authorized, you can only talk to the father or mother, whoever it is, but you can't, you can't shut up.' 'Well, that's how I can't go on.' And he goes, 'No, no, but it's your fault on top that we can't pay the neighbors' receipts.' This is what Mr Montoro told us the other day. We're contributing, we're being denied resources, and it's our fault that we can't do it. This isn't fair. We're so bad, so bad, this brother already says, 'Well, I want to leave this house that oppresses me.' Then he is answered, 'No, you cannot express yourself, but besides you cannot express yourself, the day you tell us that you want to leave, we will have to decide among all'. This is what's happening to us. I don't know if you'll understand, but these girls from Toledo did. I just want to say to you that there is a people who have their former president with a complaint because after asking for permission from this Congress to put the ballots they threw forward a process of participation and were blamed, and with him to the vice president, the education councilwoman who defended the language and our group leader, who until now was not presumed guilty of anything, but turns out to be coming here and is already guilty too. Mrs Ombudsperson, let us be very sorry. I believe in unity and law, but not as a slab or as a gag. I believe in the freedom of peoples, in the freedom that allows us to be, that allows us to express ourselves, that allows us to decide with whom, when and how. The Catalan people, 2 million people, are raising their voices today through me and making their complaint heard. Act, he's still in time. We will thank you, although the decision is made. If the words of this humble Member in what I do not know if she is left in the legislature have served for the heart of any of you to move to understand what our problem is, it will have served something. If this Ombudsman wants to be the Ombudsman of all peoples, she will be the Ombudsman. The Catalan people have spoken and will continue to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u11	Thank you, Mrs Ribera. Mr Rufián has the floor for the Republican Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u12	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Becerril, Ombudsman, thank you for being here today. The truth is I have little time and a lot of questions to ask you, not so much me but the people we have behind us, so let me be straight and get to the point. You will see that they are questions intended to know exactly what you have done in the last year and also in the last seven years, which have been especially hard for the Spanish people. Let me also tell you that my parliamentary group and myself have been surprised by that idyllic account that has made of the status quo of Spanish society, a mixture of Narnia and the Middle Earth. It seemed that Frodo Bolson presented what was happening in the Middle Earth: absolutely nothing. So, with your permission, I'll start. Mrs Ombudsperson, 579,000 evictions have been carried out over the past seven years. In 2015, 52,000. I don't mean it, says the little suspect General Council of the Judiciary. Madam Ombudsman, where were you while these evictions were being carried out? Where have you been these past seven years? Where were you when people were kicked out of their homes? Mrs Defensora del Pueblo, in May 2015 the unsuspecting United Nations was alarmed by the high number of complaints of torture and ill-treatment in the Spanish State, mainly at borders and detention centres. I guess you remember perfectly, like all of us, how fifteen people were greeted with balls in El Tarajal and how they ended up in Ceuta's morgue. His answer to these complaints and to these facts was to appeal to the Constitutional Court to try to invalidate and declare unconstitutional l'Autoritat Catalana per a la Prevenció de la Torture, a Catalan institution of recognized struggle against torture. The Constitutional Court, presided, surprisingly, by an ex-member of the People's Party, declared that authority unconstitutional. Why did he do it? Why, in the face of that United Nations study, did you try to burden yourself with an institution that was fighting precisely against such torture? I am saying this because I have seen absolutely nothing in the report. Mrs Defensora del Pueblo, in 2015 Argentinean justice did the work that is not allowed to do to the Spanish justice and requested the extradition of Frankish hierarchs, fascists, who are still walking through our streets; among them, for example, accused of crimes of torture and against humanity such as Antonio González Pacheco, aka Billy el Niño. [[Give it up.]] Madam Ombudsman, where were you while civil, social and labour rights activists were sleeping in prison and Billy the Child or Utrera Molina at home? Where was he? What were you doing? I'm saying this because I haven't seen anything in the 2015 report, and I can assure you that Billy the Child is still running marathons. [[The Lord]] Madam Ombudsman, where were you while a lot of compi yoguis told us that we lived above our possibilities, when we actually did it above yours? Where was he? Where were you when Luis was told to be strong and Rat was the father of the Spanish economic miracle and not to worry? Where was he? Where were you when they told us that we're all Finance, when they actually meant that you're Finance? Where was he? Where were you when so many prophets taught us austerity lessons while traveling to Switzerland and Panama? Where was he? [[Rumors.]] Madam Ombudsman, where were you while the government called avalanche those who had a concertina between their legs in Ceuta and Melilla, and external mobility to so many kids who were looking for life in Germany and London by putting coffees? Where was he? Mrs Defensora del Pueblo, where were you while you were paying tribute to the Blue Division in La Almudena and financing the Francisco Franco Foundation with 150.000 euros public, while you were chasing and fined the Catalan National Assembly for being independent? Where was he? Mrs Ombudsperson, where were you during 2015, when so much was being claimed that the memory and dignity of 120,000 people still buried in cunetas eighty years later would be restored? I am saying this because I believe that in 2015 absolutely nothing was done, again. Where was he? Madam Ombudsman, the light in this country has risen by 80% over the last six years to be the most expensive in Europe, the same 2015 that is the year you come here to present the report, by 10%. Where were you while the surprisingly well-known minister Soria recently told us that the light was not so expensive and that the situation was not so harsh, perhaps referring to his own face? Where was he? Where were you while we were being taxed in the sun, perhaps the inspiration of the coasts of Panama came? Where was he? Madam Ombudsman, where were you while we were being called barbarians, terrorists, Nazis, coups and fools - which is perhaps the softest - for being independent? Especially the People's Party that has some consistency according to its history but, above all, the brothers-in-law, its ranch, Citizens. Where was he? Because I didn't see anything in your report, once again, from 2015. Mrs Ombudsperson, if you have no answer or competence on all these issues and questions, the main question would be: Who have you defended? Which town did you defend? What's the use of your institution? Out of coherence, dignity and decency, perhaps, what I should do is resign and call for the annulment of that institution. I am convinced that if 20 people are stopped at the Puerta del Sol and asked who the Ombudsman is, they do not know; but they certainly do not even know that they have a Ombudsman. Here's the drama. I hope I have been clear enough and direct enough, and let me end with one last reference to Mr Rajoy - and his parliamentary group - who is not here today surprisingly. The other day my partner Ana Surra said she was a refugee and you scoffed. [[Protests. - Mr. Tarno Blanco makes negative gestures.]] Mr. Rajoy said he was decapilating... don't worry; calm down. [[Protests.]] [[Mr Tarno Blanco and Mr Suárez Lamata speak words that are not perceived.]] She said she disqualified herself. A gentleman said that a dish is a dish and a glass is a glass, which is surprising. I tell you one thing, Ana Surra cherishes in a single day of her life more dignity and decency than all of you in an entire life. [[Mr. Tarno Blanco: That's for sure!]] Thank you very much, and good morning. [[Mr Suárez Lamata: A rude man!-A honourable Member: Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u13	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Ombudsman, Doña Soledad Becerril - and team -, welcome to your home. Not in vain, the institution of the Ombudsman is a high commissioner of the General Courts, whose function is to ensure the rights of Title I of the Constitution. We appreciate your presence here and your willingness to appear both in the Commission and in plenary today. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the report, we have to say that we would like to see an increase in ex officio proceedings in the future. Interventions by the institution may be made at the request of a party - suggestions, complaints or complaints - and ex officio. The number of proceedings in each case is very disproportionate - we are talking about more than 17,000 complaints against just over 522 ex officio proceedings - and we understand that when we are aware of a situation in which we have to intervene, the institution must do so. In the report we have striking data, for example, which increases in the State Administration - in the ministries, today absent - the time of reply compared to 2014. The lack of response by many public administrations to the Ombudsman's request is also significant, and reference is made to small municipalities because they are said to lack personal and material means. This shows significantly that the reform of the local regime carried out by the People's Party at the end of 2013 is a real failure and that, therefore, the Citizens' proposal, among others, to simplify or aggregate services and avoid duplication goes in the right direction. From Citizens we understand that some proposals could be made to improve the functioning of the institution. On the one hand - as we have already said - there is an increase in ex officio proceedings and, on the other hand, there are certain areas in which, as is the case with the procedures of property liability, there has been a delay in the practice of public administrations for several years when the rule has reached a maximum of six months. It would also be useful to rethink the incompatibility of the activities of the Ombudsman's Office in cases already known to courts and tribunals. Finally, as the Ombudsman has already said, it is not acceptable for the Ombudsman's resolutions to be more enforceable, because, for example, out of 706 recommendations, 95 have been rejected and 300 have yet to be answered. In the case of suggestions, the same is true: of more than 300 suggestions, 112 have been rejected and 176 remain unanswered. In any case, and since it does not give time to analyse all the issues, we will focus on the five main points that generate the greatest types of complaints and complaints, such as justice, public security, economic activity, health and employment, to which the refugee crisis should be added, which is not logically covered in the report because of its proximity over time. We agree with the Ombudsman's statement in the Commission that the European Union has come up with a little bit of an issue, and that much more decisive action is needed. Speaking of justice, justice, ladies and gentlemen, is the right to effective judicial protection, which is tarnished - and is noted in the report - by the frequent delays in the processing of judicial proceedings. I am glad that the Minister of Justice is here to hear us directly. Ladies and gentlemen, justice, when it is not agile, ceases to be justice. There are laws that are far from reality and above all there is a lack of material and personal means in the courts. The Ombudsman's report refers to these procedural delays and the problem is that it advises the creation of new courts, but the Ministry rejects it. We lack in the report a reference to the court fees for litigation and the consequences that this has generated. We understand that, thanks to the reform of the People's Party, justice has become a right of rich, wealthy and wealthy people. The Government has wanted to reduce the workload of the courts at the expense of depriving a large part of society of access to justice. On the contrary, from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we understand that a comprehensive reform of justice is necessary, especially by beginning with the provision of greater personal and material means to the courts to put us at levels similar to our European neighbours. It was not so difficult, Minister of Justice, this situation would have been resolved, among other things, with the measures envisaged in the agreement signed by Citizens and the Socialist Party, among which we can highlight: a great state pact for justice, which is pending; a free justice; developing that judicial office, and above all completely abolishing judicial fees. The second paragraph concerns freedom and security. In this section is where the new Organic Law on Citizen Security, Law 4/2015, has the greatest preaching. Despite the parameters dealt with in the annual report, we urge that the implementation of this rule be monitored in the future, especially for the protection of the rights of peaceful assembly and demonstration, as well as the exercise of sanctioning power by the administration. With the agreement that we have signed Citizens and the Socialist Party we propose - and if possible we will do so - the reform of those precepts of the organic law that have been appealed or challenged before the Constitutional Court and those that recognize excessive powers of intervention of the security forces, those precepts that replace the criterion of legality with that of opportunity for these interventions and those that attribute to the forces and bodies of State security powers of decision and repression based on mere indications and suspicions, with the aggravating that this implies in a democratic state like ours. Madam Ombudsman, perhaps the most important chapter is that of economic activity, where there are many situations of unprotectiveness which our regulatory framework is incapable, genuinely incapable, of resolving. Reference is made to people who need to go to alternative credit because they cannot access official credit. It also refers to the absence of a law regulating the rate of interest that may be qualified as a usurer. The People's Party, in the previous legislature with an absolute majority, has not been able or has not had time to reform a law, the Azcarate Law, which is of the year 1908. It's rained since then! Similarly, the report proposes the amendment of Law 2/2009, which is the procurement of loans and mortgages to improve consumer protection. And finally the institution advises also to regulate the activity of debt recovery, recommendation that, to be no less, was also rejected by the Secretary of State of Economy of Mr Montoro. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why has Mr Rajoy's government - now absent - had so much interest in not granting protection to consumers, precisely in this time of financial crisis which has shaken small consumers in such a virulent way, whereas, on the contrary, it did come to the rescue of financial institutions, which in turn are protected in an out-of-court complaint system in which they are not obliged to do anything? Within this chapter, the report devoted a special section to energy - as has already been mentioned here - and the Government's response is also not much more flattering, since before the cuts of light, given the passiveness of the ministry, the Ombudsman has had to recommend the establishment of specific regulation where the intervention of public administrations is mandatory before the interruption of the energy supply takes place. The Ombudsman today is still waiting for the Energy Secretariat's response on the proposal to review the distribution of the fixed and variable cost of the electricity bill, which you know is causing quite a few problems. While the institution requests it, the People's Party Government prefers not to intervene in the event of default of the invoice, depending on the cut of the supply or regulating the fractionation and postponement of the debts. Gentlemen of the PP, these measures must be taken now, which is when people are having a bad time, not after tomorrow. For this reason, the agreement - and I have to refer to it continuously as a solution that we can implement in our country in a short time - between Citizens and the Socialist Party provides for a strengthening of consumer law, an integral regulation of the second opportunity, much more than has been done so far, the revision of abusive clauses and loans and the elimination of ground clauses, let alone the preferential ones, which would lead us to a separate chapter specifically. Fourthly, the report refers to health. Ladies and gentlemen, in times of budget cuts, it is not in health where administrations have to put the scissors in. The report shows that our health system is far from optimal and solves the problems of health users, who remember that they are not voluntary but compulsory users. The report in a way puts the hair at the top. For example, it reports that genomic tests for the prognosis of breast cancer patients are not applied throughout the National Health System. It also notes that there are many difficulties for minors to access rehabilitative treatments; that patients must wait months and even years for specialized treatment; that 50% of patients in need of palliative care - palliative - do not receive this benefit; that in emergency services patients wait for very long hours and that their right to privacy and dignity is also impaired; that mental health patients also require a residential care resource; and that patients, when they come from several autonomous communities, have problems in providing medicines. Hepatitis C continues to be a recurring theme in the successive reports of the Ombudsman's Office for several years. The treatment of celiacs is therefore also expected. On the contrary, we, in the reform agreement, have introduced numerous measures to restore the universality of the coverage of the national system, to create a common portfolio and, ultimately, a health card, an electronic prescription and a common clinical history. I will refer to the last point, employment - I am running out of time -. Obviously, the current situation is problematic not only because of the high rate of unemployment and unemployment, but also because employment is precarious and unstable. In the face of this, we propose in the agreement a contract with increasing compensation, insurance against dismissal, internal flexibility of companies and encouraging collective bargaining. In short, I have to say to conclude, because I have no time to speak more, that, ladies and gentlemen, in your hand - and above all in the hands of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - you are supporting the agreement that we have signed between the Socialist and Citizens' Party, that this report by the Ombudsman, which has more than 670 pages, is reduced to this, to just over one folio and blank. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u15	Thank you, Mr. Cano. Mrs Rosell has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. It is an honour for me to represent my parliamentary group in this debate and from this rostrum. Thank you very much, Mrs Ombudsperson, for your appearance before this House today. It is their obligation, but not all institutions currently fulfil their obligations to the assembly that represents popular sovereignty, so thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate the institution, the deputy staff and the technical staff for the magnificent content of their report - there is an excellent work behind - and also for the transparency portal, which is being updated, and for its renewal. On behalf of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, I would like to express our great respect for the institution, because the people, whom we represent here, need a lot of defense. Fundamental rights are the essence of democracy. Democracy is not the institutions, which can be drawn even within the constitutional framework. We know that there may be more or less authoritarian regimes with separation of powers and greater or lesser effective control between them, but there is no democracy without fundamental rights. The people on the street said it loud and clear: They call it democracy and it is not. They call it democracy and it is not because we have and have had institutions that do not comply with their own right - it is very serious but it is so - because they have a very high proportion of illegality and immorality within them, because they live naturally with corruption, they feed on it and, worse, they do not even react when it emerges. By the pipes of corruption not only do we escape or are placed offshore in Panama, the Bahamas, Switzerland or Andorra the material means by which we should be building and maintaining the social rule of law that enshrines our Constitution; it is because these cloacas also corrupt our fundamental rights. [[Applauds]] When a political party goes from being a natural channel of democratic participation to being a diffuser of the illegalities of the system, our obligation is to recover and strengthen the institutions of control, to politically rehabilitate the institutions so that they are functional to democracy, and among these institutions we include that of the Ombudsman. That is why, out of respect, we do not want to limit ourselves to a protocol act. That is why we have suggestions and criticisms born of respect and the will to empower and rehabilitate institutions. Before entering into the three subjects that we are going to deal with most - asylum, childhood and macho violence - there is a novel subject of great interest, because it is new its legal framework, which we want people to know or at least know that it matters to us, and that is what they count on the civil records after the management commission made to the registerrs of the property in relation to nationality. We all know that when the budget is reduced on an ex officio basis, the right of defence is affected, as is the case with delays and delays in the administration of justice for lack of resources. When the Government is allowed not to attend to the victims of the Argentinean complaint of the historical memory, it attacks the dignity of the people, because rights are also lost, as when we talk about the Civil Registry and tell us that after several erratic decisions there is a surrealist scene of hundreds of abandoned and unnumbered boxes in the bottoms of the Ministry of Justice waiting to be digitized, first by large warehouses and then by the registerrs of the property. We are now told in the report that there are hundreds of thousands - hundreds of thousands! - of nationality files pending. Behind the files there are people, there are whole families who fall into administrative irregularity and lose many of their rights, because if they run out of work they see their legal residence cards expire even if they take ten years in Spain, because we are told about appointments for 2019 and because there is a process between the application and the resolution that ranges between two and ten years. This is a scandal, this is more of a hindrance to migrants when they are already inside. Of course, those who made these decisions might be thinking about themselves or some registrar of the property, but not about the people. [[Give it up.]] In the area of immigration, the truth is that the institution does a great job. Proportionally, visits to CIEs, CETIs and other centres are more than visits, we understand, to prisons. In terms of prisons, it would take something more, from the outset, to admit reality in order to change it, not deny it. Denying it is not a good start. In the area of asylum and shelter, I believe that the Ombudsman must be congratulated on his work of denouncing violations of fundamental rights at the southern border, but the denunciation is not enough. We really appreciate your visit to the OAR, Beni Enzar Asylum and Refugee Office in Melilla. Thank you. But you fall to your feet as a mother and as a human being when you see that we are described as children have insufficient maintenance, in a Spanish administration!, insufficient maintenance only partially alleviated by the personal voluntarism of the Police and the Civil Guard, which, despite their working conditions and reasonable complaints, are alleviating this situation. We are told of children who are either alone or listening, and therefore reliving, to the horror of the story of their parents seeking refuge. It's inhuman that this is happening in a Spanish office. We share his diagnosis of the lack of provision of the Administration to face this reality, but we cannot share his decision not to appeal unconstitutionality against Law 4/2015 which they called "Citizen Security" and its consequent reform of the tenth additional provision of the Aliens Act of 4/2000, in what has been called hot returns, limiting itself to recommendations that have been rejected by the Ministry of the Interior and the General Secretariat of Immigration. The control of migratory flows, ladies and gentlemen, can never lead to abandoning human rights or our international obligations, not at the border, not at the CIEs, not on deportation flights, not directly or indirectly through third countries that are not safe for human rights such as Morocco and Turkey. The ill-treatment of refugees on the border, their collective deportation are images that bring us back to the worst of our history, which not only strike - not create - brutally the lives of refugees: they strike our dignity as Europe, as Spain and as democrats. [[Give it up.]] The territories of no law, a single exception that is already massive to the rule of law, confronts us with our greatest shame. We are ashamed of the European Union. Human rights must be defended precisely where they are most vulnerable and where they are denied. Finally, there are two subjects that we miss as proper headings in the report that we believe deserve. The first, childhood. There is no specific treatment but in each subject, in migration, in education, in juvenile justice. We believe that this work decision makes childhood invisible. We even suggest that we do not talk about minors, which is a word that has a certain peyorative connotation and contributes something to diminishing their problems. Let's talk about childhood, boys and girls. We have already told you that we are missing an analysis of the impact of the child poverty crisis, which exists even if it is not written. It is accepted naturally, even with a degree of acquiescence, that education costs are cut and that families are helped to cope with them. But these are not misfortunes of fate. They are political decisions and there political action demonstrates its priorities with all cruelty, demonstrates its inhumane priorities. Free education cannot be limited to schooling itself. When needed, it must include a dining room, transport, textbooks, school and sports materials. We can't turn our most vulnerable boys and girls into little heroes. We cannot assume that for the poorest people to study again it is an act of rebellion, an act of overcoming inequality of opportunity. You said in the Commission that there was a good report from Caritas on child poverty, but Caritas is neither a high commissioner of Congress and Senate nor a function of control of the Administration, and it is not about charity, it is about justice. [[Give it up.]] Finally, but also as the biggest gap we have identified in your report, we want to highlight the partial and limited treatment of gender-based violence. This country, ladies and gentlemen, has a serious structural problem of macho violence. We cannot share the praises of other groups in his report when he does not even deserve a specific heading. Its treatment within the Justice Administration allows us to examine complaints, risk assessment protocols that we know well, protection orders or sentences of victims of ill-treatment, but the problem is not justice alone. The problem is comprehensive and its examination should also be comprehensive. Let us not just talk about dead women, there are many more who are alive, if one can call life when they are subjected to the terror of their own homes, both women and girls, devastated not only by physical and psychological ill-treatment, but also by all the sexual and other crimes included in the Istanbul Convention that Spain has signed. Our criticism is firm but constructive, because among all of us we must build a society free of macho violence. Discrimination against women in a wide range of areas, large areas in which it occurs, merely because they are women, deepens structural inequality and exacerbates the problem of gender-based violence. Let us already speak of Machist violence, in plurality, in all its forms. Let us examine the effects of the cruel reduction of institutional resources for the protection of victims, their children and their children, and preventive measures, including education for equal citizenship. It cannot be drastically reduced in terms of education and prevention for later, when a woman is murdered, to show every week our revulsion for the victims of sexist violence and send condolences to families without also assuming our own institutional responsibility, of some, of what doubt, greater than that of others. [[Give it up.]] The Constitutional Court has already said in a judgment that I don't remember very well, and that the striker beats you harder, hurts you more if hegemonic support, with the support of society. Women are reporting less, young people naturally assume violence against women that are unacceptable, thousands of children live daily with abuse in their homes, because this scourge is not only great, as everyone says, it is profound, as deep as the roots of machismo are in our society. Because we want to live, we have to be aware that, in part, those lives are in our hands. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, let us give the floor to Mrs Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, some of whom are on their feet.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Rosell. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Galovart.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u18	Good morning, good morning, egun on, good morning. Firstly, I find it incredible that the President of the Government and the Government are absent from this Chamber to listen to the Ombudsman's annual voice. [[Greetings.-Protests.]] It is clear that the Socialists are staunch supporters of the Ombudsman. My words must therefore be interpreted for the institution, in favour of improving its functioning and in favour of the empowerment of the Ombudsman. Before entering the report, on behalf of the Socialist Group which I have the honour to represent, I congratulate the Ombudsman and her deputies. Our parabens are not protocol, because they are based on the following reasons. The first is that the Office of the Ombudsman has been relevant in seeking the cooperation of the administrations. The second is that the Ombudsman's management has been transparent. Thanks to it we know, for example, how the budget is spent, how it is worked and how quickly the complaints are answered and resolved. In addition, the Office of the Ombudsman has introduced new computer techniques and has published a new website. The institution has also monitored some of the detention centres in our country in function and in relation to the national mechanism for the prevention of torture. It is also necessary to point out that the Ombudsman continues to be concerned and to struggle in a determined manner for the rights of persons with needs for international protection. Following on from the strengths of management, I want to say that the Ombudsman argues the recommendations and suggestions with rigor and quality, essential qualities to influence the administrations. I would also like to congratulate you, of course, on your excellent reports. It is a pride for all Democrats to have this institution. I would also like to point out that the Ombudsman has increased his activities on his own initiative and continues to maintain close relations with the entities of the third sector, its collaborators, which helps him to take the pulse of social reality. As a last reason, I must point out that the institution has solved many important problems of many citizens and that it tells us what have been the problems that have most worried the Spaniards in 2015. For all these reasons I reiterate the congratulations of my group. Advocate, with emphasis on the strengths of the report, it is necessary to point out its weaknesses. As is well known, the annual memory should be an X-ray as accurate as possible on the wishes and concerns of citizens and of the exercise of their rights before the Administration. Therefore, the fundamental fact that every report should contain is that of the quality and effectiveness of the protection of those rights and, consequently, more attention should be paid to the substantive and qualitative aspects than to the merely quantitative and descriptive ones, because we cannot forget that these data are only indicative. The report before us provides comprehensive quantitative data on complaints and compares them to those of the previous year and thus indicates that in 2015 the number of complaints has fallen significantly compared to 2014, 5,497 fewer complaints. However, what does not establish are the causes of such a decrease, not having to speculate about them without having previously carried out an objective and exhaustive analysis in this respect. Therefore, neither the reintroduction - because it was uneven and progressive - of the 2012 extra pay to officials nor the so-called economic recovery in the report - because it is macroeconomic - can be considered efficient causes of this decrease in complaints. Turning to other issues, we are surprised that the subject of macho violence is located in the areas of administration of justice and equal treatment, because, with all due respect, we understand that this is not the place and it would be a separate section that would allow us to have a joint view of this problem and that was the result of the firm decision of the Office of the Ombudsman to give a new impetus to the fight against this macho violence. [[Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u20	In that connection, it has drawn our attention to the fact that there is nothing in the report on the elimination or reduction of preventive measures for victims because the budget has been reduced by 17%, nothing more or less. Defender, in 2015 60 women have been killed and this year there are already 15. There are many anonymous women terrified between the walls of their homes. That is why a state pact against macho violence is needed. [[Give it up.]] Join him, join the covenant, we need her, we need her look as a woman. As far as children are concerned, we consider it appropriate to have a specific area, as well as to draw up a monographic report on this subject. As the refugee case will be the subject of another appearance by the Ombudsman, I will only make two very heartfelt requests. The first is to make use of its influence before the Ombudsman of Turkey so that the implementation of the agreement with Turkey, which we have condemned, is carried out with at least sufficient guarantees and also to oppose forced deportations. The second request, Mrs Ombudsperson, is that she strongly reproaches the Government in office, as the European Commission has just done, for its shameful lack of commitment to the reception of refugees. [[Give it up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the time I have left prevents me from giving up as I would like all the matters in the report, but I do not want to go on to the next question without remembering that the Office of the Ombudsman is not just a complaint resolution office, because it must and can aspire to much more. It is therefore appropriate to continue to increase ex officio actions, 522 against 17,822 on the basis of specific complaints, and to take strategic action to assess the quality and status of public services. Perhaps it would be good to begin with the situation and deplorable state of the courts in the Plaza de Castilla. Also, without prejudice to the extraordinary quality of inspections at detention centres, we ask for an increase, because this year's 62 visits, 34 of them follow-up, are scarce, taking into account the large number of remaining centres to be inspected. Mrs Ombudsperson, we are concerned that sometimes your investigations have been hampered by the disdainful, late, insufficient or no cooperation of the administrations. It is not a question of you insisting that they be complied with - that too - but it is a question of the administrations being clear that they have to comply and collaborate, yes or yes. We are also concerned about the effective implementation of the resolutions concerned and I say that they are effective because, in order to double the powers of the administrations, the force of the argument and the application of legal coercion are insufficient if they are not accompanied by the support of a public opinion formed, a public opinion that supports and legitimises the Ombudsman's action in order to have a genuine impact on the administrations. That is why we encourage the Ombudsman to carry out more public education campaigns, to have a regular presence in the media, social networks and forums, and to use all and each of the coercive legal means, considering also the creation of other legal channels, prior to the relevant regulatory changes. We are also concerned about the lack of follow-up to the resolutions accepted by the administrations, because the problem is not one of acceptance - which is also - but of verification of the effective implementation of the resolutions. We therefore call on the Ombudsman to carry out systematic and organized follow-up. I find it difficult, Mr President, to conclude without saying that we have failed to act on certain issues, especially those referred to the Ministry of the Interior, which caused suffering to our people, as well as assessments of laws very much answered by citizens. If so, it is imperative that the human rights defender should not forget to raise her voice despite everything, even if she does not like it and even if she disturbs the established power. To conclude, now, and as a backbone of my intervention, we ask the Ombudsman not to wait for the social reality to come through her door, but to come out and look for it. Thank you for your attention. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Galovart. In conclusion, I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr García Urbano.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Thank you very much, Mrs Becerril, for coming to this House once again to account for your work and that of the office you run. I have heard interventions from the rest of the political groups but, on the pretext of analysing the report, many have ended up questioning the work done by the Government. On the contrary, my intervention focuses on assessing and analysing the work of the Ombudsman's office, leaving in the background assessments or assessments of the Executive, for which there are other moments and other situations. If you had to qualify your report, you would have at least the following adjectives. It is a clear, detailed, interesting, rigorous report; it is a balanced and self-critical report. The report is extremely clear. It has been able to reflect without any complexity the reality of Spanish society, the main concerns of the Spaniards and the level of involvement of the different administrations in the solution of them. The report notes that the main problems or concerns are related to minors, women, the unemployed, housing, students and dependency situations. The report treats all these groups as particularly vulnerable and so, in particular, is how it deals with them. The report concludes by positively appreciating the normative progress that has taken place in 2015 in all these areas, but ends in the same way, stressing the need to continue working towards the full inclusion of all of them. On the protection of women, it is recognized and emphasized that there have been numerous prophylactic measures, but yet there are still too many women currently affected by this scourge of gender-based violence. On the protection of minors, progress is also highlighted, but there may be situations of exploitation arising from the latest phenomena of uncontrolled emigration. The report also acknowledges the favourable development of employment through the enactment of enabling laws and their acceptance by economic operators. It cautions, however, that further work is needed in this area, focusing on stable quality employment. Unfortunately, yesterday we did not enjoy the approval of this House of a proposal from the People's Group which was oriented in this direction. In the area of dependency, it is recognized that response times have been reduced and that the number of persons killed has decreased before obtaining a positive response after benefiting from this law. However, his report did not fall into self-congratulation in this area, since the existence of a single affected person whose situation did not suit the administrations in a timely and timely manner would be equivalent to the failure of the whole system. In the area of education aid, it is noted that in recent years there has been a reduction in aid for families to face the costs they need in this area, but all this contrasts, and should be highlighted, with the budget forecast for 2016, which devotes a budget line as never before in the entire history of the country, in particular, EUR 1,416 million. And this same clarity that you point out in your report on social concerns transfers it to the assessment of the economic situation. The report's strongest statement is probably made precisely in this respect: citizens' complaints have been reduced by almost 50%, and this - he concludes - is undoubtedly a change in trend resulting from the improvement of economic conditions and the overcoming of the crisis. It also provides clarity when analysing the internal security and external security of our country. Regarding the first, internal security, there is a significant decrease in the number of crimes and offences in the last year, in 2015. The Group of the European People's Party, to which I represent at this moment, is convinced that the fall in the crime rate is certainly due, on the one hand, to the improvement of the socio-economic situation of the country, but, on the other hand, to the reform of the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, which has reduced crime in just one year by more than 3% and which, according to many international indicators, places Spain as a fifth country with greater internal security. Outside our borders, it is true that millions of refugees are experiencing a humanitarian crisis. It is something that concerns us all and we are working intensively and together to resolve it. That is reflected in your office's report. No political group, no social group, should be made with the monopoly of feelings or solidarity. Spain has also shown in this area that it is a serious and supportive country, but that it acts responsibly. That is why the Government's position has always been clear in the treatment of asylum, immigration and the formation of a common policy. With regard to the functioning of the services, the office devotes special attention to health-related issues. It is well known that this is a given matter, transferred, competition today from the autonomous communities practically in its entirety, but I would like to highlight the effort you have made to stimulate all public administrations to worry about dealing with that problem that arose with hepatitis C. The report contains complaints about waiting lists and delays in surgical operations, as is the case in other years, but I must say that at state level all Spaniards and residents in Spain have recognized their right to health care; moreover, in the protection of the health of foreign citizens Spain is at the forefront in the European context. I said at the outset that it is a clear report on the situation in the country and on its internal functioning, but it also contains elements of self-criticism. I will tell you that the Ombudsman's office is setting an example in terms of transparency. Transparency, as we all share, is undoubtedly one of the main democratic values by which citizens control the activity of their posts, verify respect for legal procedures and understand decision-making processes. Thus, these citizens end up relying on public administrations. That is why it is commendable that you have made an effort in 2015 to establish effective measures in relation to citizens, such as that renewed website where information on budgetary activity, public tenders and awards is given and that communication between you and citizens, citizens and the office is implemented in a much more direct and comfortable way. It is time to remember that these kinds of effective measures - not effective, not placebos, something so fashionable in the political debate - that are directed towards transparency, are really what citizens accept. I also said that the report was balanced. It is detailed, of high interest and balanced, as is the case with a neutral and independent institution such as the Ombudsman. The value of municipalism is recognized in many of the public tasks. That's right. It is fair to acknowledge that, in the face of the deficit of other public administrations, the local authorities have achieved a budgetary surplus overall. Without the effort of the municipalities - you also point out - it would have been impossible to implement the employment plans from the European Union; it would have been equally impossible to reach agreements with the electricity companies and the water companies to avoid cuts for reasons of default in disadvantaged families. It is the municipalities that have taken the lead and have assumed the task of forming the registers of empty housing, the registers of housing applicants and, as I say, those that have the lead in housing-related actions. In this position of balance, the report acknowledges progress in the administration of justice, although it continues to warn that this is where the greatest number of complaints are brought together. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Government of the nation in 2015 has reacted, for example, with the Digital Justice Plan: paper zero, and that, from 1 January this year, communications between professionals, prosecutors and lawyers, and the courts must necessarily be telematic, and from this the first advantages already appear, both in economic terms, since savings in professionals in the sector have been quantified at around 26 or 27 million euros, as well as in terms of efficiency, because the communication deadlines were on average in sixty days and have been reduced to nineteen. The report also does not ignore the powerful legislative impetus that has existed in all areas. In fiscal matters, the fall in cadastral values to accommodate them to real values I am sure that the prediction that in 2016 will greatly decrease the number of complaints in this matter. As well, the number of procedural complaints will decrease due to the new legal shortening of the maximum periods of investigation of criminal proceedings. The report also points out that in the political and social debate certain legal taboos such as payment, land clauses and limitations on the principle of universal patrimonial responsibility have finally been overcome. But, to be fair, I must say that the merit of having brought all these issues to the table must be shared by the Government but also by a progressively interpretative work of the courts of justice. In conclusion, Mrs Becerril and members of the Bureau present here, I will summarise my report in six points. But first I would like to speak to those who have been reproached for the absence of some Members of Parliament in this House. I was surprised by the applause of the political group of the person who made this accusation because I doubted whether he was addressing those Members who are not or have not been able to be here, those who have not been able or are not here or those who have not been able and are still unable to be here I was surprised by that applause. [[pointing to the right part of the Chamber]] [[pointing to the central part]] [[pointing to the left side.]] [[Give it up.]] And I want to address the one who has addressed you in an acidic, unjust and unnecessarily provocative way. I also took a surprise because I saw that just when I was heading to the stand he paraded and decided to leave. It has been addressed to you in an acidic, unjust and unnecessarily provocative way, and I would remind you or better to let you know, because you probably do not know, first, that you were appointed Ombudsman with a broad consensus in this House and, secondly, that you have also provided great services to the country as Minister of the Transition and helping to bring this country to democracy at truly difficult times, and that you have achieved that institutional normality and political stability that we enjoy and that allows us all to be here at this moment. [[Applauds]] [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Mrs Becerril, I will conclude this report in six points. First of all, the work that you did in 2015 has not only consisted in the functioning of the Administration, you have also gone out to the street, the Ombudsman has gone out to the street, he has travelled the country, he has visited the foreigner; he has been in schools, in health centres, in prisons, in refugee camps, in juvenile centres. Secondly, you have given an example of transparency in your internal functioning which should serve as a model for other administrations. The Group of the European People's Party highly appreciates this exercise of transparency and calls upon it, yes, to continuously excite the zeal of the rest of the administrations to maintain the same dose of transparency and to comply with the laws of transparency and good governance on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u23	Mr García, I would ask you to summarise the four points you have left in a telegraphic way because you have exceeded time by far.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u24	Yes, Mr. President, it's just a minute. Point 3, third conclusion. The report shows that the Ombudsman is today a powerful tool to capture the will, to capture information from citizens, but equally powerful to communicate with them, and having achieved one of the objectives of the institution as it is, the institution is consolidated. Point 4. The report highlights the rigour, professionalism and austerity with which it has acted, and all this also serves and helps to guarantee that prestige which it enjoys. I can tell you today that there is not a single person in Spain, nor a single Spanish person who, in view of the perception of other institutions, doubts the usefulness of the institution. Point 5. The work during 2015 has been to check the Administration, but more has been done. It is true that it has been fulfilled with that role of making some sort of ITV to the Administration, which helps the Administration's axes to be permanently greased with quality control, but you have gone much further and done more, the drop in the number of complaints has allowed you to increase the number of recommendations. That's a good address. A country that has a ombudsman coming down...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u25	Mr. Garcia, that's not telegraphic. Look at the watch you have next to you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u26	Twenty seconds. It is good news that complaints are dropped and recommendations are increased. This proactive attitude will be valued by citizens. Finally, I convey to you my state of mind that it is of complete satisfaction. I congratulate you on the work, I congratulate you on your service to the country, for the thousands of citizens who are satisfied with this work and I say to you, Mrs Becerril, that an exhibition like the one you have done gives you prestige. A report and work such as that of the institution that you direct to the institution, and therefore I convey to you my gratitude and congratulations, my personal and that of the People's Group to which I represent in this act. You can be very proud. Thank you. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-13-CD160413.u27	Thank you, Mr. García. I reiterate our thanks to the institution of the Ombudsman's Office. We have concluded the agenda and therefore the sitting is adjourned. It was eleven and twenty minutes in the morning.
