ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the speaking times of the parliamentary groups. As you know, they will speak in an order of majority to minority, taking the last word of the parliamentary group to which the candidate for the Presidency of the Government belongs. After the speeches of the parliamentary groups, the vote will be taken, which, as you know, will be made public by appeal, in accordance with Rules 85 and 86 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby announce that the vote will not be taken before 6.30 p.m. I remind you ladies and gentlemen that you must remain silent so that we can listen to the speakers. Firstly, Mr Hernando Vera has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, candidate for the presidency of the Government, I am speaking on behalf of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; I am speaking on behalf of an organization that was born at the end of the 19th century and has one hundred and thirty-seven years of history in the service of Spain and the Spanish; I am speaking to you on behalf of a fundamental party to bring about freedoms, consolidate democracy and modernise a country that lives outside Europe. The history of freedom and democracy in Spain is not explained without the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, but the most important thing is that the small history of millions of men and women is also not explained without politics and socialist governments. An indispensable party to realize the aspirations, illusions and demands of justice and well-being of the Spaniards. Socialists are here today to fulfil a duty, a duty that we take with conviction, the duty to end the time of party politics and start the time of politics for citizens. All the parties are responsible for the stage of institutional blockade experienced in the last year, all of them, but today all the citizens will see that the socialists are responsible for putting an end to this situation, this blockade, this paralysis. And we do it for consistency, because our commitment has always been to Spain and democracy. Whenever Spain and democracy have needed us, we Socialists have been there, in our place. Mr. Candidate, it is not a personal criticism and it is also well known. Mr Rajoy, we do not like you as President of the Government because we do not like your policies, but we do like this country, and we like the democracy we have, and we like what we have achieved together, and we think Spain needs us today. We cannot and do not want to allow the serious problems facing citizens to be blocked by the pure selfishness, by the selfishness of any party. There have been three hundred and twelve days of government in office, two general elections within six months, two failed investiture sessions with two candidates from different parties, but the worst is that the year since then has entailed the extension of the policies that you started in December 2011. Men and women with specific faces, names and surnames, of all ages, have seen how the mere prolongation of their decisions made for four years kept them in an unbearable situation. Firstly, the 4,300,000 unemployed and the millions of Spaniards at risk of poverty. Today are more than a year ago the unemployed without coverage, than you said yesterday. There are more than a year ago pensioners who are demanding pharmaceutical co-workers, of whom you did not say anything yesterday, Mr Rajoy. Or the sick on the waiting list, of which you said nothing yesterday, Mr. Rajoy. Today there are more than a year ago workers in precarious situations, with less wages and a day imposed unilaterally by employers, and you also did not refer to them yesterday. It is more than a year ago that young people were forced to leave their university studies because of the cumulative effect of the reduction in scholarships and their amount and because of the unbearable cost of many tuitions for many families, and you also did not remember them yesterday, Mr Rajoy. In our view, these situations are the effect of the decisions of a government presided over by you, Mr. candidate, and we cannot and do not want to forget that. In institutional terms, the last year of political blockade has damaged the normal functioning of the State and this Congress of Deputies because the Government has refused parliamentary control. They have been months of a paralyzed administration, without political decisions of substance and radical absence, except in the last month, of dialogue with the autonomous communities; another year in which the riada of the distance between Catalonia and the rest of Spain has been allowed to run without any initiative other than recourse to the courts, on the other hand legitimate and obliged. In both the December and June elections, we were the second political force. You won the election; we recognized your victory, Mr. Rajoy, and we said it was your time. In January, however, you refused to take on the responsibility of the Head of State. We felt irresponsible, but you have once been proud of that decision. Fortunately, after leaving his responsibilities, Pedro Sánchez, courageously and responsibly, took on the task of trying to form Government, and did so with all its consequences, knowing in advance the profound difficulty of that mission. The pact we signed to form a reformist and progressing government did not help to overcome the investiture. It was against the coincidence of the People's Party and Podemos, who thought that anything was better than giving the presidency of the government to the socialist candidate, to a socialist. I sincerely believe that for some, the issue was not the content of the agreement we had signed either on our electoral programme or on the government programme; the issue was the aversion to a socialist leading the Spanish Government. [[Applauds]] As we said then, we expected nothing but a no from the People's Party; it was consistent with its status as the main antagonist alternative to the Socialist Party. But if we are here today it is also because Podemos added his votes to the People's Party to prevent the march of a government presided over by a socialist, and that is not going to be easy to forget, that is not going to be erased, that is going to be remembered by millions of citizens for many years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that this hurts, and it hurts to remember, especially for those who go from heroes of the left but prevent today there is a president of the left at the head of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] That would have been a government of change, of social, economic, fiscal, political, institutional change, and even, if I hasten, Mr Rajoy, of moral change and of a way of governing. It could have been a reformist and progressing government aimed at turning right-wing policies around, but some chose not to support a government that opened the doors to regain rights, undo cuts, suppress privileges and pursue corruption. So necessary is the pursuit of corruption! I believe that it was done for partisan interests and with the aim of holding new elections and, above all, of winning the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. But they didn't make it, they didn't even win us by adding the acronyms of many games. Unfortunately, the left retreated into this House and the only one who benefited from that repetition of elections was the People's Party. After the June elections and the failure of your first attempt at investiture, Mr Rajoy, we were once again prepared to take up the presentation of a political alternative that would entail the unlocking and setting up of a government. Nor then was it possible, because the only possible government, one of the Socialist Party with the support of Citizens and Podemos, could not be realized by the vetoes between these formations, and the rest of the combinations were not desirable for the stability of the Government of Spain. I say this openly: we do not believe that Spain can be governed by the votes of those who at the moment want to separate themselves from Spain. My group has repeatedly expressed in this House its willingness to engage with all the parliamentary groups in order to resolve the serious territorial problems in this country, also with those groups that have declared themselves openly independent or have reached independence just a few years ago. Of course it is: dialogue, dialogue to the point of satiety. We have even said that dialogue must reach the partial reform of our Constitution so that in this process of revision our model is a model with a federal perspective. But one thing is to dialogue and seek agreements and another very different is to govern and initiate a legislature with the support of those who have put an end to a referendum of self-determination. The result of two failed investiture is that this debate is held only four days before the end of the deadline for the election of a candidate for the presidency of the Government. Therefore, the debate is objectively limited between only two options: either to give way to the convening of a third election or to unlock the situation, which irreparably means - and I want to speak very clearly - to allow the investiture of Mr Rajoy, whom we have never wanted, by abstaining. This is what we can do and nothing else: either abstention or elections. Today, toasts to the sun are no longer worth in favour of a different majority that has repeatedly been denied with facts and attitudes. Let us not deceive anyone: the House's alternatives have been reduced to resolving the disjunctive or abstention or elections. However, Mr Rajoy, the reasons we have persistently remembered during these ten endless months not to trust you remain absolutely alive, especially after listening to you yesterday afternoon. They are reasons that speak of cuts, limitation of rights, passivity in the face of poverty or inequality, insensitivity, lack of reaction to corruption or political immobility, reasons that recall the forgetfulness of workers who with their labor reform live in precariousness, without rights and without the protection of collective bargaining. I also forget the pensioners, the patients without treatment, the dependents without aid, the fellows without recourse, the young people forced to emigrate or the researchers abandoned to their fate and who have to leave Spain. Reasons for the lack of commitment to genuine equality between women and men and the lack of conviction to develop a comprehensive policy against gender-based violence with sufficient means, or its continued threat to the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. Reasons relating to a tax system whose inequality you have favored by unjustly recording the income of work versus that of capital or wealth, also by punishing access to culture, by protecting fraud through shameful amnesties or by surviving at the cost of evading the Social Security Reserve Fund. Reasons that have to do with the will to maintain shameful pardons, unjustified hindrances, restrictions on rights, obstacles to access to justice or abandonment of universal jurisdiction in the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act. Reasons that you continue to bear in mind, Mr Rajoy, your I did not see, I did not hear and I have nothing to say in the face of cases of corruption that have affected and continue to seriously affect your party, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] I will not insist much on this, but it is illegal financing, it is obstruction of justice, it is political responsibilities that have not been assumed, and yesterday you said that no one can boast of infallibility. Mr. Rajoy, what does infallibility have to do with trying to overturn the Gürtel trial? What has it to do with the infallibility with which your procedural representation has tried to set aside a trial involving so many high-ranking members of your party? I'm telling you, it has nothing to do with this, Mr. Rajoy. Reasons that are based on a thick silence in the face of the deterioration of our coexistence, passivity in the face of the true risk of a state crisis, a sad secondary role in an increasingly closed European Union, which you did not speak of yesterday, when you need many reforms, profound reforms, to govern the globalization that affects us. Reasons that denounce the lukewarmness with which the Government has faced the commitment to host refugees fleeing the war, or immigrants who come to Spain and want to integrate, or the detachment when it comes to defending and promoting human rights. Again, not a single word on human rights in his speech. After listing all these reasons, I would like to point out to you that our will is to turn these policies around by making use of the composition of the House to change them and that your attitude is psychologically not the right one, although, yes, you say: I offer dialogue. No, Mr Rajoy, it is not that you offer dialogue, it is that dialogue is imposed, it is that dialogue is absolutely necessary, it is that without dialogue you cannot carry out the task of government. [[Applauds]] You said yesterday: I refer you to the Journal of Sessions to see what is the program with which I present myself. It seems to me, if it is a matter of procedural economy, that we can read the Journal of Sessions. But it is also another mistake, because you will only be able to carry out the programme that was presented in August if this House decides to carry it out. Because that may be your will, but you will have a hundred and seventy supports on Saturday and, therefore, you will only be able to carry out that program - the one you presented in August - if you seek sufficient support. We also have other reasons that do not refer to your policies but to the way in which you have exercised the Presidency of the Government and in which you have exercised parliamentary work; the exercise of power. The ten months of his acting as a Government in office have not changed our minds, but rather reaffirmed ourselves in it. Why has distrust been strengthened, ladies and gentlemen? Because you have claimed your exclusive right to form a government because you are the most voted party in a parliamentary system, and that is not the case, Mr Rajoy. Because your first recognition that you will not be able to fulfil electoral commitments, that you will have to review laws and decisions adopted in recent years only by you, that you will be forced to agree day by day, has taken three hundred and eight days. It was last Friday and it was from Brussels; he recognized it there. Here yesterday, in this rostrum, he gave up a little bit because, look, you said almost textually: persevere in economic policy and do not back off on the reforms that have been approved. That is the problem, Mr Rajoy, that perseverance in these policies has caused a great deal of suffering and that we are not going to allow it to persist in those policies. That is the question, the perseverance in what has happened in the last four years. That is why I repeat, Mr Rajoy, quite clearly: you have neither our confidence nor our support, especially after listening to you yesterday afternoon. [[Applauds]] And to bear witness to that, the Socialist Group is going to vote today, not a clear no to its investiture. It will be the expression that all the Spanish socialists consider that you are not the President of Government that Spain needs. As I said, we have plenty of reasons not to trust you, but there is no reason to keep the political blockade and take the Spaniards to a third election. Because the Socialists also know that you have eight million citizens behind you who have supported you, one hundred and thirty-seven Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, an agreement with Citizens and the Canary Coalition that gives you 170 votes in this House. With this data we also know that if the Socialists vote not next Saturday we will go to forced elections, because the groups with which the Socialists would be willing to reach agreements do not want to reach agreements. That is why we will abstain in the vote next Saturday, in order to avoid a third election that the Spaniards do not deserve. This country does not deserve new elections to reassure any conscience. We believe that this is our obligation, first of all, to the interests of the citizens and also to the institutions and to our democracy. For us, ladies and gentlemen, this is and is a decision whose difficulty I do not think it necessary to exaggerate from this rostrum. In these months, many socialists have strongly defended a negative vote for the candidate of the People's Party; with conviction, many socialists stand for a abstention from Mr Rajoy's candidacy as the only means to prevent new elections. All of us who defended one option or another were socialists; we defended him as socialists and we remain socialists. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should all be clear about the disaster of a third election. In the second round, in June, a million fewer citizens voted than in December. Participation in these last elections is the lowest in history, 66.48 per cent. This means disaffection, this means alienation, it means boredom from all of us, by the way. This is also the case in CIS data: in December 2015 the citizens who rated the situation as good or very good were 6% and are now 1%; in December 2015 the citizens who rated the situation as bad or very bad were 63%, now 87.1%. It is clear that a third election would mean a twist in the same direction and, with it, more disaffection towards institutions needing to gain affection and regain credibility. We have already told the citizens twice that they were wrong in their vote and, at least to this day, we were willing to ask them to vote again to see if this time their vote coincided with the electoral aspirations of each of us. But does anyone really believe that going to vote for the third time in a year has no impact on the strength of our institutions, on the credibility of this House? For I say to you, yes, that it weakens our democratic system, that it questions the usefulness of institutions, that it weakens our image and our weight in the world. Of course it has consequences prolonging four or six months the exercise of a government in office that cannot meet the basic needs of the functioning of a State! Of course it has consequences a new election! Who guarantees that after these new elections there won't be a quarter? And why not a few Thursdays? Will we continue like this until someone achieves the electoral goals that have been set? Look, it's not a rhetorical argument. I used it in my speech in the March investiture debate. What the December and June elections have highlighted is that today's Spaniards are unwilling to give overwhelming or prominent majority from one side to another and, consequently, the time of the absolute majority has gone so far as not to return; surely for a very great season, perhaps forever, and what is consistent with that situation, with that assertion, is to take decisions that translate into concrete answers what the citizens have expressed in the ballot box, and today this translates into preventing new elections and enabling an investiture. If your investiture takes place, Mr Rajoy, this Parliament is going to experience an intense transformation. He will no longer be the more or less docile companion of his Government's actions and decisions. No, it will become the real arbiter of politics in Spain and it will be here where it is finally decided, as it had never been done before, the trajectory of the country. You will be at the head of a parliamentary minority government from Monday. It will no longer dominate Parliament as it pleases. What will succeed will be a majority which you lack and which, as I have already said, will often be articulated around the Socialist Parliamentary Group. You'll have to discuss and agree on everything you bring to the House, if you want to approve it. It's not going to be easy, Mr. Rajoy, because in order to do that you may have to stop being Rajoy. I'll explain myself. You better stop acting like you're used to. He said it yesterday, what I don't know is if he's willing to apply it. Make no mistake, the investiture will get it on Saturday, governability will depend on your willingness to seek agreements in the House and stability will be conditioned by your ability not to remain isolated and in front of everyone, which is what has happened to you in the last four years. Yesterday you spoke of budgetary stability and said: the Government is obliged to comply with it and the House to respect it. And I say to him: it is the government, from now on, that is very obliged to respect the House when it brings any law, whether it is the spending ceiling or the budgets, if you bring them. [[Applauds]] I have already told you that it is very difficult, Mr Rajoy, for us to support these budgets. We do not know them, but if they are the continuity of the budgets you have been bringing in for four years, you will not have the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for those budgets. Look, our abstention will allow you to form a Government, but it is not a support to your Government or to your policies. You, Mr. candidate, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, will not have our support to carry out your electoral programme, to impose your ideological prescriptions, to fulfil electoral commitments that benefit only a few and harm the majority or to satisfy the most recalcitrant sectors of your party or electorate. They will have to achieve governability in this House week by week, vote after vote. And you, Mr Rajoy, will have to defend the stability of the Spanish Government with unusual instruments so far for you for lack of practice, for lack of use: dialogue, negotiation, divestitures, agreement and pact. And that machine will have to grease it quickly, because we've seen in the last few weeks that they're not used to that. We will, from the very moment the investiture takes place, play the role that the citizens have entrusted to us, which is that of the opposition, that of the first party of the opposition. We will seek from the beginning of the legislature the necessary majorities to improve and recover social cohesion, territorial cohesion and to improve and recover the health of our democracy and our institutions. In particular, we will propose to create a minimum living income for families without resources; to abolish the disabled; and to promote a state pact for education that repeals the Lomce. I'm going to stop at this for a moment, Mr. Rajoy. Yesterday you offered an educational pact and gave us a six-month period, but yesterday hundreds of thousands of students and families went out to the streets and squares of all Spain against the disabled. I think you have to hear that cry, as the whole House has to hear. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, according to the dialogue for that pact. By the way, yesterday they voted against the creation of a committee for dialogue on this pact in the Senate proposed by Citizens, not by the Socialist Group. Before starting these jobs, before arriving at those six months of work for an educational pact that repeals the Lomce - which is what we propose -, Mr President, paralyze the invalids. Commit yourself today, now, to paralysing the invalids. [[Applauds]] We propose, Mr Rajoy, to recognize the effective right to unemployment benefit for mature workers with family burdens and for long-term unemployed persons over fifty-two years. Reducing cultural VAT; the cultural industry has been punished all these years, Mr President. Remove the pharmaceutical co-op, which you approved, for pensioners and chronically ill. Adopt a law on equal pay for men and women which also recognizes all women workers at the time of their retirement a two-year contribution bonus for each child. To promote a major state pact against gender-based violence. Adopt a paternity permit as a non-transferable, autonomous right of equal duration as maternity. Adopt a law on equal treatment and non-discrimination and a law on dignified death. Prohibit pardons for corruption-related offences. To set up a commission of inquiry into the irregular financing of the People's Party, which you have agreed with Citizens but which we have already registered in this House before. To launch, ladies and gentlemen, the commission of inquiry into the partisan use of the Ministry of the Interior, which is already approved. Repeal the restrictive rules of public rights and freedoms. Ensure the independence and neutrality of Spanish Broadcasting and the EFE Agency, and the viability and quality of that public service. Reform the appointment system for constitutional and regulatory bodies in order to avoid their conditioning by political parties and ensure their neutrality. Along with these initiatives, and as we have agreed this weekend on the Federal Committee of our party, we urge you to start immediately a phase of social dialogue for the adoption of a new Workers' Statute and the repeal of labour reform. You spoke about this yesterday - and it seems to me good - but we are going to make it more concrete, because this social dialogue has to start with two things, Mr President and Madam Minister-in-Office, with a rise in the minimum wage and the rebalancing of the weights of the parties to collective bargaining, which is absolutely fundamental because you blew up collective bargaining during labour reform. [[Applauds]] The work of opposition will never prevent us - it has never done so - from seeking agreements in the initiatives that the Government presents or offering consensus on state policies or collaborating for the better fulfillment of the commitments that the Government has made on behalf of Spain and that link us to all the Spaniards; that is, seeking the sharing of their cost so that the same ones will not always be punished, the losers of the crisis, those who have already suffered the worst clashes of this crisis, the middle classes and the impoverished workers. We will also focus on three objectives. First, which coincides with one you said yesterday, revitalise the Toledo Pact to ensure both the financial stability of the social security system and guarantee the purchasing power of pensions in a few years in which you have recognized that there is growth - this effective growth is evident - but that is through a system of distribution and solidarity and, therefore, through a system of intergenerational income transfer. Secondly, the creation of a parliamentary subcommittee to address the serious challenges present in the territorial vertebration of Spain with the aim, in particular, of restoring institutional normality with Catalonia. If given the gravity of the current situation we do not act with sufficient energy and determination, the passage of time and the application of the law alone will not help to resolve the situation. Let us build in the constitutional framework a sincere model of recognition and mutual loyalty within a nation with various feelings of belonging. Third objective, Mr Rajoy: The adoption of the necessary measures to ensure that the difficulties for the investiture of a new President of the Government should never again be resolved through the repetition of elections. To this end, we will immediately propose a reform of article 99 of the Constitution, which, while maintaining the role of the head of State and the system of parliamentary election, temporarily curtails the process of investiture and introduces mechanisms to ensure the majority election of the President of the Government. Mr Rajoy, let us get out of this debate and get out of this debate on Saturday, reassuring the citizens, telling them that this situation that we have experienced in the last three hundred days in this country will not be repeated, regardless of the good or bad will of each of the opposing political forces. Let us also begin in this context, within the framework of this constitutional reform, the study of a deeper reform to update the catalogue of rights, to strengthen some of these rights, to change the role of the Senate, to reform electoral legislation. I'm done, Madam President. Unamuno said that to have a lot of hope you have to have a lot of memories. We have a hundred and thirty-seven years of history and memories: since 1891, in institutions; since 1910, in this House. It has been one hundred thirty-seven years of writing glorious pages, of many correct and also, of course, of some errors. We have always been guided by the same values and principles, and we have always made it clear that, as the card that the socialists are carrying reminds us, we are socialists not to love our ideas in silence or to recreate ourselves with their greatness and with the spirit of justice that encourages them, but to take them everywhere, and that is what we intend to do here in the coming weeks, in the coming months and years. At the crossroads that we have lived throughout our history, the socialists have always known that the old alternative between ethics of conviction and ethics of responsibility does not imply that choosing responsibility means renouncing convictions and that assuming one's own convictions does not mean renouncing responsibility, especially responsibility with the direct consequences of our actions for the specific people, for the citizens of this country. It was not easy, but in 1979 we renounced Marxism against the opinion of a part of the left that accused us of betraying our ideology and the working class, but time gave us reason. It was not easy, but we embarked on an industrial conversion that modernized this country and drove it along the path of progress, and again we were accused of betraying the workers, but time gave us reason. It was not easy, but we faced the sustainability of the pension system and that cost us a confrontation with the brother union and a general strike that involved a tear in the Socialist Parliamentary Group; again, the so-called pure left accused us of betraying gradualism, but time gave us reason. It was not easy to keep Spain in NATO because we had to ignore our commitments and because neither the right of the day nor the authentic left call helped us on that mission, but time taught us that being in that alliance was crucial for Spain to gain weight and start counting in the international context. Can anyone imagine Spain today outside the Atlantic Pact? Time also gave us reason. It was not easy to propose and sign the last two anti-terrorism pacts because many did not understand that, after the use of this scourge, we assumed the responsibility of horrifying terrorism as an element of partisan confrontation and accepted that it was the Government and only the Government that led the anti-terrorism policy. Again, some, fifteen years ago and barely a year and a half ago, accused us of turning ourselves over to the right, but time gave us reason and today we are almost all in that pact. It was never easy for the Socialist Party to make decisions of a complex nature, we always hear the same disqualifications and threats and they happen to always come from the same sectors, but time gave us reason. Leading a country and a project is much more than putting behind a banner - by the way, also leading the opposition is much more than putting behind a banner -. [[Applauds]] That is why our abstention will be an exercise of responsibility for Spain to function and democratic institutions will not be powerless before citizens who are waiting for our answers and who have expressed their will on two occasions. But with our negative vote in today's sitting and our abstention in Saturday's sitting we will start working to build a majority alternative as a Socialist Party to be a majority in this House in the future. In the meantime, we will make good use of our just, social and modernizing political votes. But make no mistake, our abstention is not resignation, it is a new beginning to build a majority alternative that is the safest way to govern and change Spain. Until then, we will exercise our role of firm and constructive opposition in the service of our country and of our centuries-old principles. I'm done. When many militants of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, millions of socialist voters, millions of citizens who feel progressive and society in general live days and weeks of slumber, we want to send them a message of confidence. We'll keep what our history has taught us. We will be faithful to our values and responsibilities. We will address the needs of our fellow citizens to any party interest. We will maintain our deep sense of service to the citizens because they are our strength and they are our destiny. Thank you very much. [[Applause of the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the stand.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u3	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Silence! I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hernando, I will try as far as I can to respond to the different approaches you just made to us a moment ago. I will basically refer to everything that I think is of most interest to the House and above all to the future, to what I understand and how we should act over the coming months and over the course of the legislature. Your Honor, I am not going to speak - of course, it is not up to me or the case - either of the Socialist Party or of its successes, its mistakes or its history. I will simply acknowledge the role played by the Socialist Party throughout the history of Spain before today and the role I hope it will play in the future. From there, you have started your intervention by talking about the need to lift the blockade. I absolutely agree. I have repeatedly said that the worst thing that could happen to us in a situation like the one we are experiencing is going to hold a third election. What I do want to tell you is why and what I have done over these months. The reasons why I'm here are the following. Firstly, because it is urgent, after ten long months of a government in office, that Spain have a government in full office. I sincerely believe that this statement does not require any explanation. We need a government, as there is a government in all the countries of the world, because we need to adopt budgets, fulfil our commitments to Europe, to the world and meet the challenges we face as a country. It is simply a question of a government in Spain being able to govern. Secondly, and this is important that we all internalize it, I am here because I am the candidate of the party that has won the elections, the candidate that my party presented to the elections. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important and appropriate to repeat it because it would sometimes give the impression that this is a minor issue, and that is simply democracy. And respecting what people say, whether you like it or not, I think it's the most reasonable thing. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party won the elections and won them in June with a greater difference than last December, and that is why I am submitting to this investiture. That's important that we all internalize it. The third reason, Mr Hernando, is because there is no viable or reasonable alternative. There isn't, ladies and gentlemen. If we want to be fair to reality, there isn't. Arithmetically it is possible because the People's Party has 137 seats but we all know that there is no viable alternative in this House and precisely another reason why I am here - not the most important one - is because there is no alternative other than, as you have just pointed out in your speech, the holding of elections. Well, those are the reasons why I came up to this rostrum and these are the reasons why I came up to this rostrum last August and if I didn't do it after the elections on 20 December it was because I had total and absolute certainty, the record without any kind of doubt, that I was not going to have more than 123 supporters and it didn't make any sense to introduce myself to an investiture session with 123 supporters. I came in August because I had obtained up to 170 support and because, honestly, at first I thought that with those 170 support I could govern, as after what you have said I can do now. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am here now for the same reasons. Because there has been a political change, which we all know of, as a result of the decision your party has taken, which I believe is the most reasonable and sensible, not for the interests of the People's Party, not even for the interests of the Socialist Party but for the general interest of the Spaniards. The second reason I'm here, Mr. Hernando, is that I don't want elections for the third time. That's what I agree with you about. I do not want elections to take place for the third time, although perhaps I could benefit, but I believe that the general interest of the Spaniards requires that we all do what we are going to do now, you and we. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in your speech - as on the other hand it is natural and as I expected - you have made a criticism of the management of the People's Party over these four years. I will not, of course, go into the point-by-point analysis of the endless statements you have made here, but I have to say that I do not share the statements that I have just heard. I do not share them, especially today, when the labour force survey has just been published. There are some data, Mr Hernando, which I believe are positive and I believe that the situation in Spain has changed, and a lot, from 2011 to today. The data we have seen from the labour force survey place the number of people employed in our country already above 18.5 million. And in this period, which has undoubtedly been one of the most complicated in the history of Spain because we have experienced a crisis as we did not remember in many years, we have been at the worst time - first quarter of 2014 - in a number of busy people who did not reach 17 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first quarter of 2013 there were 6,200,000 Spanish unemployed in Spain and now there are almost two million fewer. The evolution that has taken place in one of the matters that matter most to the Spaniards and, as I tried to explain in my speech yesterday, also decisive to maintain social policies is, without a doubt, a variation that should deserve some comment from all here if we really want to be fair with the efforts that the Spaniards have made over the last few years. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree with the statements you have made about what has been our management over this time. Frankly, I believe that the economic situation has been renewed in Spain since the beginning of the last parliamentary term. In 2011 521,000 jobs were destroyed, more than 1,400 per day, as I pointed out in yesterday's investiture session. In 2015, 525,000 jobs have been created. Your Honor, in 2011, unemployment rose at a rate of 12.4% per annum; it is now falling at a rate of more than 10% per annum. Employment is rising in all sectors. Economic growth was negative in 2011, minus 1.8%; today it is 3.2% positive. We are the country of the European Union where there is greater economic growth, double that of the euro area as a whole. Household credit, which fell by 40% in 2011, is increasing and also credit to small and medium-sized enterprises. The deficit exceeded 9 % and is now below 5 %. Debt interests in some cases today are negative interests. In 2011 we paid an interest rate on the public debt of 5%. I do not want to remind you of the situation of the risk premium a few years ago, the situation of inflation and the external deficit, which has been positive for four years, which reveals the competitiveness gains of the Spanish economy. Households with all their unemployed members and households that do not reach the end of the month are already much less than those that existed in 2011. Therefore, allow me, Mr Hernando, to defend a management that has been successful and therefore defend - because I have to - the continuity of the economic policies that have been implemented, not because of my prejudice, but because I believe that they have been positive for the Spanish people as a whole. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have done - I do not blame you; you can do what you think is right and right - an effort to be more different, which is exactly the opposite of what I did yesterday and what I think Spain needs right now. I believe that today in Spain we must put aside the efforts to differentiate ourselves from the political adversary; we must put aside the efforts to be more different, to distance ourselves, the efforts to place the other at an end where he is not, and I spoke about this in my second speech at the investiture session of August, when I was told: You have to ally with your friends. But it's just that my associates aren't the independence parties. I have a lot more to do with you - I'm sorry, at least I see it that way - than with the independence parties. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not good to demonise the adversary and less in situations such as those we are experiencing because, moreover, the world has changed. Today Europe sets a framework for us all: you, us and the rest of the groups in this House. Traditional ideologies have evolved greatly, approached and differences are smaller. And today the demonization of the adversary is not credible, today it no longer works. People know that and it's logical, Mr. Hernando. It is that we agree on many things, but above all we agree on the important ones: the defence of our Constitution, which are our standards of coexistence; the unity of Spain; national sovereignty; the equality of the Spaniards; our membership of the European Union, which means, even NATO, to which you referred in your speech; welfare policies. We also want a public pension system, a public health system and an education system. And we will have to negotiate autonomous financing, and the differences when we negotiate autonomous financing will not come from some gentlemen sitting there and others sitting there, but will come from the realities of each of the autonomous communities, ruling in them the ruling party. [[points to the banks on the left]] [[points to the banks on the right]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that is good and, in fact, as you mentioned in your speech, over these years we have come to some political pacts that are very relevant to our country. I myself participated in 1992 in the Autonomic Pact, which led to the subsequent reform of ten autonomous statutes. In 1995 we launched the Toledo Pact. We have jointly adopted a pact on transfuguism, on terrorism, on justice reform - then it did not work very well - and we have jointly reformed the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been done among all of us. It is a positive fact which needs to be improved and in which we must persevere. We must be proud of what has happened to this country over the past forty years, in which you ruled and we ruled. We will have contributed something to this country, even though there are some who understand that nothing has been contributed here. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to try to differentiate myself, I have never done so; I am going to try to build and I understand that my approaches are not accepted, I understand that, but since 21 December I have been saying the same thing and no one will be able to blame me. Since 21 December I have been saying - and yesterday I recalled - that the best thing that could happen in Spain was a three-way coalition government - I said on 21 December, I repeat - a government like those in mid-Europe. I think it would have been a magnificent message inside and outside Spain, I think it would improve confidence, I think it would help consolidate recovery and job creation, allow us to address the major State issues and we could talk about governance and stability without moving a muscle. I proposed secondly - if that was not possible, which was not, as you know - a parliamentary agreement that would bring a minimum of stability to the Spanish Government, without it assuming that no one had to renounce either its principles or its freedom of action; an agreement with commitments to carry out a government programme. That is what we came to in the end with Citizens and with Coalition Canaria and I remember that in the debate on 30 August I already offered some agreements, as I did yesterday, on matters that undoubtedly matter. Well, all this was not possible and, in the end, we are on a stage that is not the best for me, and I have to say exactly what I think in this House. I am absolutely aware of what can happen over the next few years, but I am also obliged to try to make sure that Spain has a government that can make decisions, build confidence and be as stable as possible. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you know better than I do, there is no agreement with the Socialist Party, but I will do what I can to govern. I will try to agree, as I said yesterday; I will put everything on my side, because I am aware that governance is working on a day-to-day basis and also that I will have the greatest responsibility, but not the only one. This legislature will be difficult for the government, of course, I am very clear, but here we are 350, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget it, and here everyone has their responsibility - some more than others, perhaps - we are all obliged to take care of the general interest and the same responsibility, for which some are going to abstain today or on Saturday, it must be demanded for the future, because if not Spain will not be able to have a government where decisions will benefit all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are a few minimums of governability, there are, and it is so bad not to have a government as to have a government that cannot govern. Without budgets, without fulfilling the commitments with the European Union, we run the serious risk of Spain living a barren legislature. Of course, for my part that's not going to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hernando has referred to some approaches that need to be corrected in the current situation in our country. I have read carefully, and as it could not otherwise be, the resolution adopted by the Federal Committee of your party last Sunday; I have also heard your speech this morning. I share some of the things that are said in the resolution of the Federal Committee of the PSOE and some of the statements you made here this morning, and others not, but that is logical and positive. I certainly share the Socialist Parliamentary Group's political position in Congress in the face of the investiture process, because it is said that it does not really make any sense that there will be new general elections on 18 December. And here it is said - and it is true - that there are only two alternatives: new elections or the unlocking of the country's situation. And there it is said that the repetition of the elections is harmful to the health of democracy - and it is true - and that it is harmful to the interests of Spain and the Spanish - and it is true - even it is said that it can have negative effects for the Socialist Party. I don't know, but of course for the general interest of the Spaniards I would have them. Your Honor, I agree with some of the things you said here this morning. Let's call social dialogue. The objectives may obviously not coincide; some will. We're going to call the Toledo Pact, as I announced yesterday. I believe that a state pact must be made in the field of education, but that pact must not consist of repealing the Lomce or in maximalist positions. We have already witnessed the repeal of a law within 48 hours of a Government becoming a law. That did not serve any purpose, nor did it provide any reasonable foundation for building in the future. We will address the suspension of the academic effects of the final evaluations of the ESO and the Baccalaureate until we conclude the pact for education that I proposed yesterday. [[Applauds]] And until that moment, until we reach the pact - let's see what we agree - the final evaluation of the Bachelor's degree will not be necessary to acquire the title and will have value only to access the university. Your Honor, the fight against corruption is another meeting point. I believe that it is much more useful - and I sincerely believe that it is what a great majority of Spaniards want today - that instead of commenting on it or using it to throw the mess at our heads, let us be operative and avoid that some of the things that we have experienced over the years can happen again in the future. I also believe that it makes sense - and that it is not difficult to reach an understanding - to push against gender-based violence, as well as to defend full equality between men and women. No doubt there are other issues where it will be more difficult to reach an understanding. I am open to speaking, or as you said if you want - I do not care to acknowledge it -, forced to speak, but I have some limits, and it is also necessary to comment to the whole House on those limits. The first is to undermine economic recovery and job creation, and the second is budgetary stability and it is because budgetary stability is a commitment to Europe, but above all it is that not having budgetary stability ends up damaging economic recovery and job creation. Those are my limits; from there we have to see what expenses the various parliamentary groups in this House are making, and what derogations and what laws the parliamentary groups in this House are proposing to make. There are things that can be done in good times and that are even reasonable, but - as I said yesterday - as long as there is not enough collection, as long as we do not have enough employment we will have to focus on those things that are most priority and necessary, which is what we have tried to do throughout this legislature. First, public pensions, then health care, education. I know there are many things to improve in this country, and I work to try, but in the end good will is not enough, even if it is important. The decisive thing is to be able to make an economic policy that generates growth, that generates employment, that generates resources and that allows us to improve social policies. Those were my limits. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, as I have done on other occasions in this very rostrum, I explained - briefly, so as not to overreact - what was my position in relation to what is - and should be called as such - the sovereignist challenge that is taking place in some institutions in Catalonia. I am absolutely aware of the importance of this issue, I am willing to talk to you and those who want to talk to, I am willing to do so sincerely, to make the greatest effort that I can do. I think it is opportune to do so now. I propose that we analyse what we have achieved and value what we can improve, that we reflect on the Spain we want and on the reforms we need to achieve our goal. Obviously, there are problems to be solved. It is obvious that there are tensions that we must overcome. And it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that at least some - no, we all - have an obligation to respect the law, because if not, we would not be an advanced democracy, if not, we would not live in a rule of law, but would return to the stage of the strongest. And when I speak of respecting the law, I speak of respecting the Constitution, national sovereignty, the unity of the nation and the equality of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, from there I express my utmost readiness for dialogue, but not to submit to any accession contract, which is the only thing that has been raised to me during these times. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to enter now - and I am not clear enough - into the procedure or the forum where this dialogue can be held, but I do believe that our obligation is to do something that is operational, useful and that serves to solve this problem and any other problem that the Spaniards have. Ladies and gentlemen, this speech is now over. Mr Hernando, the situation is what it is, we are all absolutely aware of where we are, but as I said yesterday in this rostrum I have to understand - because I cannot think anything else, nor do I have any imagination - that the 350 Members we are in this House want a government in Spain that is in a position to govern, because if you do not have to say what we want and what we are going to do. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u5	Mr Hernando Vera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u6	Mr candidate, Mr Rajoy, if you want dialogue you have to rectify, you necessarily have to rectify, because if there is no substantive problem, a problem of conception of what the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants and what you want it to make impossible the legislature. We are abstaining from the investiture, not the legislature, and that has to get you in the head. And when you repeatedly propose the coalition government and parliamentary agreements, what you are trying to do is cancel our opposition work, and that is what you are not going to have in this legislature; we are going to remain your opposition, Mr Rajoy. Understand it. [[Applauds]] Let me also recommend a piece of advice to you very humbly, and it is not so triumphant when you speak of Spain and the situation of the Spaniards, because the situation in which each Spanish is seen is not what you describe when you go up to this rostrum or when you speak of any of your ministers. So if you want agreements and dialogue, first, abandon triumphalism, and then rectify, Mr Rajoy, because that is a fundamental issue. We are going to abstain, but because we know that we can condition politics with 84 Members from this parliamentary term, but also because we can rectify the mistakes that we believe have been made in the past, and in the past we believe that mistakes have been made, even if you are very proud of all the initiatives and reforms that you have undertaken. You said: I look a lot like you. Man, you look a lot like us, but labor reform got you out on your own with some, but not with us. So that's not what we look like. You look a lot like us, but the law bites you out of it yourself, the reform of the criminal prosecution law you did it yourself, the cultural VAT you did it yourself. There have been things, many laws in this legislature that you have taken out on your own, and in that we do not seem at all, Mr Rajoy, but rather quite the opposite. I know bear hug is a very common tactic, but, man, no!, we're very different. Look at whether we are different, Mr Rajoy, that you think for a moment whether the situation is the opposite, whether it is the People's Party that has to abstain in order to have a president of the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]] If that were to happen...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u7	Quiet. One second, Mr. Hernando. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat this any more; if I do not draw your attention one by one. Keep quiet. Go on, Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u8	...I already know what would happen, Mr. Rajoy. We are not the same, of course not; we are very different, we are in many things absolutely antagonistic. We come from different ideological and political traditions, and we also act differently in the face of State responsibilities. You talk about economics and you are very proud of the figures and what has happened. But you have sent a budgetary plan from the Kingdom of Spain for 2017 to the European Commission, to the European Union, in which you draw an additional cut of 5.5 billion to the cuts that have already been made, produced, among other things, from the play of the last General State Budgets on the occasion of the election campaign, and from having reduced as they reduced taxes to higher incomes and capital incomes. I'll tell you what you can't count on us. Do not count on us for the cuts of that 5.5 billion to occur on the backs of those who have already suffered the crisis. [[Applauds]] He's not gonna count on us for that. The adjustment, ministers in office, has to come on the income side necessarily, because there are already public services, there are already rights that are in the bones, that can no longer be cut; therefore do not count on us for that. Don't count on us for many other things; for example, don't count on us to make the Spanish economy better by gaining competitiveness by lowering wages and worsening working conditions - in that we are not equal -; don't count on us to keep cuts in the protection of the unemployed; don't count on us - and in that we are not equal - to keep the loss of the purchasing power of pensions; don't count on us to further deteriorate the quality of education or to reduce scholarships and their amount, and in that we are not equal; don't count on us to further worsen public health. You have had two Ministers of Health, Mr Alonso, who, by the way, I think is out there, and Mrs Mato, who is in Brussels, and both told us that the elimination of the card of health for immigrants and universal health was costing nothing, which was not so much, that it had not been for so long, and just fifteen days ago your Government, you, your Secretary of State vetoed a parliamentary initiative of this party, the proposal for a law for the universality of public health, because they said that the budget was increasing by 1.2 billion euros. Mr Rajoy, you hit a health hatch of 1.2 billion euros; in that we are not the same and do not count on us to be silent about such attitudes. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr Rajoy, do not count on us so that pensioners can no longer access medicines, because they have no money to pay for them, or so that people who need them cannot access social services. Fourth reflection. Mr. Rajoy, we're going to do opposition and you have to get to the idea of that, and you have to accept it because there's no other remedy left for you, and I'm asking you there is no government scam. What do I mean by government tricks? What happened only a week ago: ten vetoes to ten legislative initiatives, five from my group, one from Citizens and four from autonomous communities. We're off to a bad start! If that's your attitude to dialogue I'm already telling you that we started wrong, but it's also that you can go along the path of decree-laws, because between 2012 and 2015 you have approved seventy-six, and it would also be a government trick to try to circumvent the opposition you can find in this House through the vetoes and the royal decrees. I'm done, Madam President. The Socialists are happy with the job that has been created and all the families that can now have an income, but I tell you that it is not triumphalist, because it does not marry the situation that many people in this country live in. I am also glad that two small steps have been taken, that you have taken a small step here in relation to the invalids and the effect of the invalids on the curriculum of the students of Baccalaureate, and also your willingness to dialogue in relation to the deep territorial crisis that this country is experiencing, which is certainly the main systemic problem that we have at the moment in Spain, but either we have that dialogue, that willingness to dialogue, or we are not going to achieve anything. I'm done. Be aware, Mr Rajoy, and the rest of the House that we are going to make ourselves respected as an opposition, humbly, but we are going to make ourselves respected as an opposition, for you and for the rest of the groups in the House. And we do so out of respect for the citizens who demand that we control you and condition your policies, and we will do so without shouting, without scarecrows, without using demagogy, working day by day - work, work, work, said Ramón Rubial - which is the best way to provide services to citizens and this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u9	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to some of the statements that we have just heard from Mr Hernando in this second speech. I would like to begin this reply by saying that I am in no way trying to nullify your opposition work; I am not trying to do so. I have made it clear in my previous speech that I was fully aware of the situation in which we were all members of this House, those in government and those in the opposition. I have said this with clarity, because it is true that I have not reached any agreement with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, none. I have also said that my position is the same, that what I put forward on 21 December was the best for Spain and that is why I have not changed my position. If I had made it clear that we would have to do something else that was better for the general interests, I would have changed it. I didn't. From there it is evident that each one tries what he can and each one gets what he can. Your Honor, I am not a triumphalist, I try to make a fair judgment of how the Spanish economy has evolved over the years. It is not the same situation that we live in 2011 as the situation that we live in this year 2016. I have provided here the data of the EPA as I could provide the data of the registered unemployment or those of the Social Security, which indicate that the Spanish economy has improved and much. I have also recalled some data that undoubtedly have interest in the effects of holding a position on how we were then and how we are today. I would also like to say that I have no interest in looking like you; I am not going to become a socialist or ask any socialist to become a People's Party, but I believe that we are in a world other than the one we have known in the history to which you have also referred in this speech. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in Europe. You see how the European institutions have been formed, how they are formed, who rules there, with what understanding and with what agreement; look at what is happening in much of the countries of the European Union. I think it's not bad that we also agree on the essentials. How are we supposed to be, at the grudge on a continuous basis? Should we be in the absolute impossibility of reaching any understanding for the benefit of all Spaniards? You have insisted here again - I'm sorry to tell you again - on trying to differentiate yourself more than is reasonable. If in the end there are understandings in the big policies. I have here the public spending for functions in Spain in the years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 and it is very similar. We spend 187 billion euros on pensions and social benefits when it governs the Socialist Party and when it governs the People's Party; and the same happens in health care, which is the second item of expenditure. Then we can discuss whether a cut has been made because of the extreme situation in which we have lived in recent years. Well, yes. In the same way that in 2010 there was a debate in this House in which the then President raised, in order to meet the public deficit, a series of budget cuts. But that does not affect the important, the fundamental, the essential; those are circumstances that occur, and as I said in my previous speech to me there are things that I would like to do, but to do them the first thing that is needed is resources. And to have resources, you have to create jobs and make policies. Your Honor, you have raised an important issue which is also relevant to what I have just referred to, which is the public deficit for this year. It is difficult to reduce the public deficit - believe me it is very difficult - and above all it is much more difficult when you are in a situation of recession. In 2011 we closed with 9.3%; in 2012 there was negative economic growth in Spain and income drop and also occurred in 2013; four years later the public deficit - I hope, this year - will close in 4.6 and next year the target is 3.1. We have negotiated with the European Commission. I think it's been flexible, reasonable, fair - because Spain wants to reduce its deficit - and smart, and we're going to try to get 3.1 by 2017. The projections we have presented to the European Commission - I think it is better to put forward a conservative scenario - say that next year the deficit we are going to reach will be 3.6. I am not yet in a position to tell you whether or not we have to take corrective measures to decrease from 3.6 to 3.1. We will have to wait until the end of 2016 and observe - this is very important - if the favourable trend that is observed at this time in the evolution of the revenues continues, because if that were so it would not be necessary, or would be necessary a decision of much less importance than that to which you have referred. We will therefore wait for the events to take place, and from there we will have to decide what decisions we take. But, I insist, ladies and gentlemen - and I will not tire of doing so throughout the legislature - meeting our commitments and meeting budgetary stability is a good thing for Spain, for many reasons - leaving the credit issue out - but above all because it helps economic recovery and also job creation. Your Honor, I agree that you are opposed. And besides, if I didn't agree, it would be the same; you do what you think is right and right. [[Laughter]] Now, you also have to understand that I have to rule and that I have to ask for understanding. I have to, because otherwise, it's not possible. You talk about the vetoes. The vetoes are provided for in our legislation. The vetoes usually do not use them who have absolute majority. In fact in the last legislature we never used the veto, and yet in the previous one, when you ruled, you did use it on some occasions, and surely rightly, because if we can't control revenue and public spending we can't govern. Your Honor, before I explained it to you, and now I repeat it: there are many things that are just, that must be done, that we would all like to do, to all, but it is not possible! Every country can do what it can. There are many countries in the world that cannot and do not have social policies that mean not half of half of those in Spain. That is why we are often obliged not to make decisions that we would like to make. The vetoes that we have raised, and to which you referred earlier, only a few days ago, meant spending more than EUR 6.7 billion. Your Honor, we don't have it! We do not have it, except that those who propose that public expenditure increase by 6.7 billion euros propose both a rise in taxes or an increase in income of 6.7 billion euros. I'd like that! And besides, I am not in a position not to have to veto proposals from some of the political forces in this House on an ongoing basis, I would already like to see myself! But also the political forces in this House have a responsibility, which is not to put forward things that are impossible to bring to a successful conclusion. We would achieve nothing, and the only thing we would do would be to increase tension, which I sincerely believe is something that is not right for any of the members of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u11	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea has the floor Mr Iglesias Turrión.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u12	Thank you, Madam President. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that I like to pay tribute from this rostrum to the fighters for democracy and freedom in our country, those who make me proud to be Spanish. The 80th anniversary of the arrival of the international brigades to our homeland is commemorated these days. The few who remain alive and those who have kept the flame of their memory lit thanks for coming to our homeland to fight fascism. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u13	One second, Mr. Churches. Quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u14	The order reigns in Madrid. It cost, but they finally got it. What you did not get in the polls seems to be going to get through what some people already call abstention: a triple alliance will make you president, Mr Mariano Rajoy, and it seems that this investiture is a procedure; a procedure for you, an unpleasant procedure for citizens, and a shameful procedure for the Socialist Party. But believe me, this investiture is very important. This investiture points one before and one after in the political history of our country, and I would ask you not to have a conventional debate, because today history is being made in this House. Today in this House what represented the past of our country gives rise to something that will be completely different, and I am convinced that indeed time will put everyone in their place. The historical character of this investiture is seen in some obvious facts. The first is that the Socialist Party is going to make the candidate for the People's Party president. This breaks something fundamental in our democratic history, which was the symbolic division of positions between two political formations which, as Mr Mariano Rajoy said, could agree on very important things such as the economy or the relationship with Europe but which culturally represented two worlds and that somehow explained our democracy. That's over today. There is a third actor in this triple alliance that, in my opinion, today exhausts its historical role. The president of the Sabadell Bank said, we need a Podemos de Derechos, we need a Podemos de los Bancos. In the end, it seems that for what Citizens have served, it is for the worst PSOE to continue to rule in Andalusia, for the worst People's Party to continue to rule in Madrid, and for Mr. Mariano Rajoy to finally remain president of the government. There are more clear signs of the historical character than we are living here. That triple alliance has nothing more and nothing less than 15 million citizens who voted for them - that's very important - but it gives the impression that you leave three things behind. The non-State nations of this plurinational country, Spain, are left out, the under-fives are left out and the big cities are left out. There is a huge contrast between the past that you represent and the future. Surely, time will put everyone in their place. It said before that it is historic that the Socialist Party will hand over the government to you, it is historic that another party will remain in the bloc of opposition and it is historic that the Socialist Party of Catalonia has decided to vote no. For those who say that Spain is not a plurinational reality and that Catalonia does not have its own political ecosystem, to show a button. Finally, it is historic that there is a political space, United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, with more than 5 million votes behind it, that it will not go through the ring and assume that it is true opposition, because it is very difficult to say that it is opposition after handing over the government to the People's Party. [[Applauds]] What is going to happen today puts an end to the political system that happened to our transition. Ironies of history, it seems that the only traditional political party that emerges free of what has happened in Spain is the PNV. Today, the two traditional crisis-proof institutions are the monarchy and the Basque Nationalist Party, well united by the Burgundy Cross. Mr. Aitor Esteban smiles, who knows what the Burgundy cross meant for the old 'gudaris' vizcaínos; Mr. Rivera may be looking for him on Google. [[Laughter]] Very important for Spain the cross of Burgundy. [[Applauds]] The political system that emerged from the transition... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u15	One second, Mr. Churches. I beg your lordship's silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u16	The political system that emerged from the transition had two large parties and a third force cornered by the electoral system, building a closed geography very similar to that of some countries in Europe, with a centre left and centre right. That doesn't exist anymore, it's over. The political system that emerged from the transition was well organized with Catalonia. After defeating the'suc' there was Convergence i Unió, which ensured a quiet governability, in quotes, in Catalonia and which supported governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Then the PSC was an important party in Catalonia, which ruled nothing more and nothing less than the city hall of Barcelona. Today, the mayor of Barcelona is called Ada Colau, In Comú Pomera has won the last two general elections in Catalonia and an unimaginable alliance in the past between two political forces who now openly defend independence won the last Catalan elections. The post-transitional Catalan political world no longer exists, it is different, and three parties of immobilism - which, with all due respect, are subsidiary in Catalonia - will hardly be able to respond to something as important to our country as the plurinationality of the state. [[Applauds]] The same happened in the Basque Country with the PNV, which favored the governability of traditional Spanish parties. The PNV resists well but the last two general elections won Podemos and United Podemos and there the Socialist Party and the People's Party are the last parties, occupy the fourth and fifth positions and Citizens are extraparliamentary. Do you really believe that you are prepared to take on the challenges that have to do with the plurinationality of our State if you remain in immovable positions that have made you marginal in Catalonia and in Euskadi? Contrast between past and future. The electoral system designed in 1977 - because in this country we have a pre-constitutional electoral system, although later validated - was basically designed to make it difficult for the left to come to the government. I'm not saying it, it was said by a Mr. Wert on a paper from the FAES Foundation in 2001. The effects of the electoral system no longer exist. We are the first opposition force in Balearic Islands, Valencia, Madrid, Navarre and Galicia. We are second force in cities such as Madrid, Bilbao, Coruña, Santiago, Vigo, Cadiz, Gijón, Oviedo, Palma de Mallorca, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Valencia, Castellón, Alicante or Iruña. We won the general elections in Euskadi and Catalonia and in the most important cities of Spain, as well as in the three island councils of Balearic Islands, do not govern traditional parties emerging from the political system of seventy-eight. I really ask you to have a debate at the height of the historic moment. The contrast between this investiture and the reality of our country, between the future and the past, should cause them to reflect on what, indeed, time will put everyone where it belongs. [[Applauds]] There are two keys to understanding what has happened. One is not new, it is the plurinationality of our country, something that the triple alliance strives to despise. You bunker yourselves by denying what is evident in the eyes of everyone. There is a second that they never understood either: what the 15M meant. You had the arrogance to say to those people who were protesting: Well, set up a political party and stand for the election. I think some people today will regret being so arrogant at the time. What you did not understand was that the 15M opened a new transition in Spain; a new transition in which fear had ceased to be a political operator. We have been told to the satisfaction that in the Spanish transition there was fear of a new civil war. I think fear of that not because in those days there was only one side that could have fought, but of course there was fear. There was fear of that army, there was fear of the political elites of Francoism who founded their party, there was much fear of the leadership of the dictatorship. Well, that world is over. The young Spaniards are not afraid; fear is not going to be a political operator again that conditions the behavior of our country and the best proof that that is how we are here. Contrast between future and past, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The only ones who are afraid in Spain are the elites and their parrots; for example, they turn a student protest into violence, then into fascism, then into ETA and, finally, they say that we have mounted it. It now seems that in a consolidated democracy, the exercise by people of their civil rights of assembly and demonstration is very dangerous, just as it is very dangerous for trade unions to understand that there may be labour reforms that may merit a general strike. Those are the only ones who are afraid in this country. People in this country are not afraid to exercise their civil rights and people in this country are not afraid that things can change. The best proof is that we already ruled in the main cities of this country, and you said that you were going to stop swallowing the sewers and that chaos was going to come, but not only have we shown you that we can win, but when we rule, we do it without fear and better. [[Applauds]] The media "brunette" exists, but no longer scares, it laughs. When newspaper publishers who also competed in this symbolic distribution of positions, they compete to see who insults us more, they don't scare, they make ridicule. When we listen today to deputies who say Venezuela, who say Cuba, they are not afraid, they make the ridiculous. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, more than a hundred years ago, Ramón María del Valle-Inclán said that to understand the crisis situation in our country we had to reflect the classic heroes in the concave mirrors. Today, unfortunately, we do not have any Valle-Inclán and indeed a lot of pudding prose and we have come to the point that humor serves better to understand the reality of our country. [[Rumors]] Read Thursday, Mongolia or see Middle or Poland brings us closer to reality than many editorials. I'm offering you an exercise. Take José María Aznar, Felipe González and Juan Luis Cebrián, take them to the alley of the Cat and put them in front of the concave mirrors. That is the reality of our country's past, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Mr Hernando, you have carried out here a projection of fears. You said that this is not a parliamentary agreement. You said watch out for the bear's hug. You said: we are different, we are different, we are different. I recommend to you a reading of Georges Lakoff, Don't think of an elephant. [[Laughter]] Adhering to the centuries-old principles has its risks. You said they renounced Marxism. But there was a Marxism that you embraced, that of Groucho Marx: These are my principles, but if you don't like me, I have others. [[Rumors]] And I will ask you one thing: do not miss the name and memory of the old socialists. My grandfather was one of those, of whom he fulfilled his responsibilities and ended up in prison, of the few militants in his party during the dictatorship and all the early May was in front of the tomb of Paul Iglesias. Don't compare yourselves to them because they have nothing to do with it. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] By the way, you said time would give them reason. That it was very hard to renounce Marxism, but that time gave them reason. That it was very hard the industrial conversion, but that time gave them the reason. That it was very hard to enter NATO, but that time gave them the reason. You failed to say: It was very hard to ride Pedro Sánchez and continue as a spokesman, but time will give me the reason. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u18	The situation of political blockade in our country had to do with a problem in the Socialist Party, a problem that goes far beyond that party, because talking about the Socialist Party crisis is talking about the crisis in the Spanish political system. You have been the most important party in the last 35 years; the party of modernity; the party that was associated with the hopes of progress of many of the middle sectors; the party that looked more like Spain. That is why their crisis is the crisis of a political system. There were two sides in his party; one that said from the beginning, with Felipe González at the head, let us agree with the People's Party; and another that wanted to repeat elections to see if they could wake up from a nightmare and appear in 2013. What you show here today is very clear, and it is that you, even if it is hard for you to recognize it, are closer to the People's Party than to us. Citizens take heart by saying that it is closer to the PP than to us; you are ashamed of it. But the problem is not that, the problem is that it is a contrast between the past of the political system in this country and the future that is yet to come. I am convinced, Mr Hernando, that time will indeed put everyone in their place. [[Applauds]] I sense a certain nostalgia for a left of order. In previous investiture the figure of Santiago Carrillo was defended. Santiago Carrillo was forgiven for everything until he met with Stalin. Instead, they do not forgive us to tell them what they are and to tell them what they were. Maybe Carrillo had no choice but to say yes to everything. Do you know what the difference is with us? That we tell them calmly and without fear that no, that we do not pass through the hoop, that we are not a left of their order, that we want a different order and that we want to change things; without any fear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The new model you are going to try was described recently by an unsuspecting journalist of radicalism, who said: cuddles in Congress in the morning, strategic pacts in the evening. It's the raw reality. We saw him last week. Last week we had the opportunity to change an unfair electoral law here. Again Citizens and the PSOE voting with the PP. We had the opportunity to change the Budget Stability Act. On strategic issues, Citizens and the PSOE voting with the PP. It is false that it can be ruled from Parliament. It is false and you have said it yourself: the government has veto power, the government controls the Congressional Bureau. It is a lie that a parliamentary government could have been built. Furthermore, I ask: if there can actually be parliamentary majorities that make laws that do not like the People's Party, then there was no alternative majority of government? Of course there was. The problem is that you are closer to the People's Party than you are to us. [[Applauds]] What is going to come out of here in the next few days is more People's Party, more corruption, more immobility, more economic inefficiency. Their ineffectiveness is measured in data. Since you govern, the number of citizens at risk of poverty increases, the number of households that do not reach the end of the month increases, and almost half of the families - according to Foessa Foundation data this year - cannot afford a week's holiday. You have cut back on education, on health, on the items intended to control and protect male-based violence and on the items intended for equality policies. You have worsened working conditions and contributed to lower wages. The levels of unemployment in this country because of its policies continue to be scandalous, particularly among young people. We are in the leading group in the most unequal European countries. The number of millionaires in Spain has not ceased to grow as the salaries of the executives of the companies of Ibex 35. Since the implementation of austerity policies in Spain, three million compatriots have fallen from the middle class. And now they're going to tell us that this government, with Mariano Rajoy at the front, is going to go a different way? No, it's gonna be more of the same. As far as corruption is concerned, do you think that corruption in this country can be combated with Mr Mariano Rajoy as President of the Government? These days you are judging those responsible for the Gürtel and you and you are going to make him president? [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the seats of the Citizens Parliamentary Group]] Corruption is not adequately combated in this country if it is governed by the People's Party. But there is another major corruption, that of the boards of directors. It already seems that politicians do not militate in parties, they militate in boards of directors. Now it seems that Borrell is running for the Socialist Party. Abengoa against Natural Gas or José María Aznar's Endesa. That's legalized corruption and as long as the PP sends - and you allow it - that's going to continue. [[Applauds]] We, ladies and gentlemen, are a political force of order, we like order. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u20	Let me explain something to you. What has defended people in mobilizations in these years is order, because humble people, people who are not on boards of directors, people who do not have billionaire allies only have the institutions to protect them; those that you turn into your private courtyards, who privatize or where you camp wide corruption. Mobilizations for public education, for public health, for the right to decent housing are mobilizations of those who defend institutions against the anti-systems that sit in Parliament. They say you've mobilized 500 cops. There are more potential criminals in this House than out there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds.-Protests.-Several Members speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u21	Your Honor, one second. [[Protests Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent! [[Protests]] I can't say it louder or clearer. Mr Iglesias, I remind you of the compliance with the Rules of Procedure as regards the honour of the House and the honour of the ladies and gentlemen. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mr. Iglesias, you have to come to an end.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u22	Thank you, Madam President, I shall conclude. Let me say that I owe myself to the honour of my country and the citizens of my country, not to the honour of this House. [[Protests.-Applause.]] It will be fun if some Members later demand speaking time for allusions after talking about potential criminals. It will be a great way to portray yourself for some. [[Laughs.-Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u23	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u24	I conclude with a sentence from Spain's first socialist, who said: To deserve the hatred of the oligarchies will be the greatest of our honors. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u25	Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u26	A previous question because I was strongly impacted, almost as a historian, also as a citizen, in the face of the order of issues that Mr Hernando said had not been easy for socialists. It had not been easy to say first to NATO 'inward, no' and finally to NATO; it had not been easy to make labour reforms; it had not been easy - I suppose it did not say - to approve the express evictions; it had not been easy to do all that; and everything that had not been easy has led them to something that is easy: to get the worst electoral results out of all their history. History gives them no reason, and as they continue to do so, history will drive them out of this House. [[Applauds]] Because Saturday we're gonna see something else. There are things that will not be easy to forget, said Mr Hernando. I believe that what is not going to be easy to forget, not for us anymore, not for all those citizens who have left orphans of representation in this House and who voted for you to throw out the People's Party and you have found that it is you who are going to give the Government to the People's Party, but even for your parliamentary group what is not going to be easy to forget is what you are going to do on Saturday, and you know it perfectly well each of you. Therefore, do not reproach us for the lack of an alternative that you actually killed. No one but you ended up killing that possibility of an alternative to the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That being said, because it is true - now this is irrelevant, as irrelevant as the irrelevant to which they have condemned their voters - it is up to us to talk about Mr. Mariano Rajoy's proposal for investiture. One would almost have to congratulate you as you have managed to do something incredible because it is not your political tradition, but it seems that your political action is that of: resisting is winning. I mean, we're gonna hold on, hold on and hold on until finally, without doing anything, they give him the government. But you didn't get the government because you used it this year to regenerate your party because your corruption cases are not from yesterday or the day before; they are from today. You do not have this Government because of your ability to solve the problems of this country, which have worsened; you do not have the Government because of your ability to convince, to propose. You have the government basically for two things: for the fear of a number of parties to a third election and for the implosion of a part of the political system. You said it very elegantly yesterday: political circumstances have changed. As if something'very elegant' had not happened, which was the murder on the Federal Committee, one of the most incredible episodes in the political history of this country. That is why the Government will have it, but a Government is not afraid, nor because of the ability to resist or the threat; a Government is built from the project and from the proposal, which it did not speak of yesterday. A Government that only seeks to hold on to fear and threat is a Government that has no future. On Saturday you will constitute a government of the past, not a government of the future; a government of the resigned, of those who came to the elections saying that they were going to regenerate the Spanish political system and have ended up voting for Mariano Rajoy; of those who came to the elections saying that they were the alternative to the People's Party, and have ended up voting for the People's Party; of those resigned who do not build an alternative because they do not know how to do so. This is practically the history of the last few years in this country. There were those who resigned; they resigned to surrender, to bend and to make us all bow to the great interests of the financial markets; they resigned to say that there was no alternative to article 135; they resigned to say that there was no alternative to cuts in social rights. And of so much and so much resignation, you have resigned to yourselves. The resignation is the figure of the knight of the sad figure called Mariano Rajoy, but it is not an honor for him, it is a demerit of the resigned. In front of them were those who were outraged and occupied the squares, those who were outraged and conquered the main capitals of the State, those who were outraged and built an alternative that ended with bipartisanism, those who also built an alternative of government that has not been able to be now, but that will surely be in the future. These are the real opposition of this country; from here, from the streets and from a million more places; those we have never resigned and those we have the ability, therefore, to throw at you. Because we are going to be opposition, but we are going to be an alternative; an alternative that recognizes Catalonia not as a problem, that recognizes its right to decide. An alternative that does not stand up to those who do not think alike using the Constitution as a stone to hit the heads of citizens; an alternative that is not built by sending people to the judiciary as a single proposal; an alternative that is not built by condemning one in four Catalans to live under poverty and 13 million citizens of the State to live under poverty; an alternative that does not condemn one million Catalans and Catalans to energy poverty and 5 million citizens of the State to energy poverty; an alternative that, from Comú Puem, the force that has won the elections in Catalonia, together with our brothers and sisters of the various peoples of the State, will be the main wall of containment that you will have before you, and not just a wall of containment but that we will build the great historical block of change that will finally make it possible for you to take power. This alternative will be built by those who know that this investiture, its investiture, is not built on a project, is built on a farce, is built on treason to voters. This investiture is built on a farce, but it lives in the midst of a tragedy; the tragedy that we the citizens of this State experience for their policies and those that we really know to resist is the first step to challenge and finally to overcome and that, in the face of a new order built on sand, we went, we are and will be or, as they say in my land Today we have not won them, but we will win them. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u27	Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that if one contemplates this investiture trying to abstract oneself from the frantic rhythm of the conjuncture, I believe that any analyst will find a certain paradox of enormous magnitude, and it is the fact that Mariano Rajoy has, on the last two occasions, ascended to this rostrum in a triumphalist spirit, in the spirit in which he has presented himself as a candidate for the investiture of President of the Government and, above all, with the virtually ratified possibility that he will achieve it. I say that this is a paradox because the People's Party, in two years, has lost 3 million voters and more than 40 Members in this House. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u29	Wait a minute, Mr. Garzón. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u30	The Members of the People's Party are extremely sensitive today, and it must be because they are not accustomed to so many truths today; it must be because of that. [[Applauds]] See if I have been benevolent that I have spoken of the last elections, not those of December 20, where you fell even more and were the force that fell the most of all that came before the elections. And I am not saying this by abounding in data that we already know, but by pointing out the paradox that it presents itself as a triumphant one who has really lost more in these years. It is true that it is a relative loss, it is true that they won the elections, but do not forget that if Mariano Rajoy succeeds to be president at the end of this week it will not be because of his capacity for persuasion or the ability to maintain his electoral base in recent years: it will be, extraordinarily clear, because there has been an intervention in the Socialist Party by Felipe González and Susana Díaz that has allowed the Socialist Party to change its position, against the electoral campaigns and therefore incurring, in what is clearly an electoral fraud to its voters. Thanks to this, not to the politics of the People's Party, not to Mr. Mariano Rajoy's persuasion capacity, there will be a government of the People's Party; thanks to an oligarchic mutiny in the Socialist Party. It has been repeated here that we needed a government. We are aware that a Government is needed, but not any Government. Therefore, this obsession with forms and not essence, this obsession with procedures - for appearance rather than essence - is truly an excuse of remarkable size. Imagine, Members of the Socialist Party, that instead of Mr Mariano Rajoy here, Mr Donald Trump or Mr Al Capone would sit - within the same formality. [[Rumors]] Imagine yourself! Would using the procedural excuses also support that Government? [[Applauds]] Because it gives the feeling that you have forgotten the policies that the People's Party has implemented, it gives the feeling that this decision is trying to whitewash the whole policy of the People's Party. That's why that contradiction, that's why that incoherent argument. But what were Felipe González and Susana Díaz really looking for? First, to avoid an alternative government where the left had influence; so simple. And it wasn't in October, it wasn't in September; it was already clear on December 20 when a part of the Socialist Party, which really represents the big companies and the oligarchy of this country, made it very clear that the political space of United Podemos could not influence the government. That's how they left it. The battle lasted a long time, but finally it had to mediate something that the Socialist Party did not say in its intervention: that oligarchic mutiny. And what is the content and substance that Susana Díaz and Felipe González were pursuing? The other question: to continue the road map of the cuts - so simple - the road map of the structural reforms that began with something that Mr Hernando has also forgotten: the amendment of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution. That road map. [[Applauds]] A road map characterized by precariousness, cuts, privatizations, cuts in health and education. I do not think there is any need for data, because Members of this House know exactly what that road map is. The International Monetary Fund in 2013 said that structural reforms were at risk for two risks: the first, social mobilization, as opposed to what it simply recommended repression, and the second, the loss of weight of bipartisanism. I think Felipe González has come out to save these structural reforms, which are the same ones that allow the People's Party to breastfeed and say that its policy is correct. And it's true, your policy is correct; it's right for Felipe González, it's right for big companies and it's right for IBEX 35, but there are a lot more people out there who don't feel represented and who are a victim of those same policies. We are going to maintain a coherent defence policy on our agenda, because we owe it to our voters and to a country project that I believe deserves justice, unlike another country project that I think it does not deserve, such as that of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u31	I give the floor to Mrs Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the instinctive reaction of a living organism is when it feels threatened? His reaction is withdrawal, retraction, makes his body an evel and waits for better times. That is exactly what the 78 regime is doing, which many of you represent here today. For four decades the machinery of bipartisanism, of turnism inherited from the first Bourbon restoration, worked without great obstacles, but at this time the unique organism that constitutes the economic, media and political powers of the Spanish State begins to bend over itself as an amoeba that is pricked with a needle, and they are doing so out of fear of democracy. Because it is no more than democracy that those who previously did not have loudspeakers powerful enough to be taken into account, today they are represented here and have that loudspeaker at their disposal. You, Mr Rajoy, will be invested as a result of a parliamentary coup following the intervention of a political party, cooked on a slow fire for ten endless months to cancel the results of December 20, the results of an election in which the majority of the electorate voted in favour of ethical regeneration, social welfare policies and the rights of peoples as political subjects. There was no institutional blockade, there was no blockade. The only thing that happened here is that there was an end to the turn of the regime's parties and that a scenario of alternative government, of plural left and with recognition of the plurinationality of the State was opened. But that for you was intolerable because for the interests of the powers you serve, the antithetical interests of the citizens of the common, that was unbearable. So they maneuvered to provoke the situation we're in. The situation is: the single party as a synthesis of the death of bipartisanism. Your fear had its first manifestation in 2011, when in the 15-M the squares were filled under the cry of 'Real Democracy'. So this unique party that you make up made three great moves: the first was to immediately promote succession in the head of the state; the second of those great moves was the constitutional reform of article 135, to give legal protection to the demands of the troika, and the third of those moves, the last spasm of the amoeba, occurred recently at the Socialist Party headquarters in Ferraz, where it was shown that to give a palace coup today it is easier to organize the forced withdrawal of a political leader than to introduce a gentleman with a mustache and a tricorn into Congress. [[Applauds]] The democratic movement, which is not comfortable in this corset of 78, has, as is logical in a plurinational state like Spanish, different expressions in the different political subjects, subjects with different sociopolitical dynamics, as in Galicia. The first symptom in Galicia of this new citizen response we experienced in 2003. That year Galician citizenship clearly perceived that the State was not there to help it on the day the Prestige ruined our coasts. Do you remember Mr. Rajoy, right, the hills, like the corruption ones? A living citizen who over the years has been the protagonist of historical demonstrations in defense of public health, of education against Lomce, in defense of the dairy sector, of the fishing sector and of the naval sector and who has as political translation that, before the single party, In Marea is today the leader of the opposition in Galicia and who confronts from the councils to the policies of austereicide. I'm just finishing up. We now find a Socialist Party that has abdicated its opposition role to show itself as a full-fledged member of that single party and a predictable next government that will reapply submissively the cuts ordered by the European Union, that will prevent the peoples of the State from deciding sovereignly and that will try to prepare us for the new pre-cooked term of the consensus of the elites. That's the menu that Rajoy brought us yesterday and that's going to fulfill this unique match. But this time, ladies and gentlemen, there is a big difference with the 1970s, on this occasion you will not be able to count on the opposition clearly laid down in En Marea and in the forces of change to legitimise this coup de régime. They won't count on our support. The demand for real democracy has arrived to stay and be assured that In Marea will make a strong opposition and that it will bring to this House the alternative that citizenship demands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u33	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to reply to the various speeches that have just been heard by all the members of this House in the extent of my possibilities. This is not an investiture of procedure, Mr. Iglesias, as it is never a procedure when someone appears in a National Sovereignty Depository Chamber trying to ask for the confidence of it. I believe that what we are seeing in this investiture session has already produced some positive results; at least it has allowed me to do pedagogy of the situation. It is clear why the investiture session is being held today and it is also clear why I have put forward my candidacy; it is clear what my government objectives are for the next four years, starting with economic growth and job creation. It has also allowed me to talk about some issues that, as I said in my own speech, go beyond what is a session and a legislature, and it has enabled me above all to explain something that is in the minds of each and every Member: we are not in a situation like the one we have lived here since 1977. This will be a government, if in the end it is, that will need agreement, understanding, that will have to make an effort, but that, as I said before, will be difficult, in my opinion and for me too, is an opportunity. I pointed out earlier in my opening speech that I do not believe that there is any member of this House who does not want a government capable of governing for his country; I understand that this affects each and every member of this House, and I suppose you will also want a government that has the capacity to govern. Mr. Iglesias has told us that we must reflect. He has made a series of very interesting discussions about the changes that had taken place in the party regime in our country, about bipartisanism, the new political forces that have appeared here, the triple alliance, he has spoken about his own political strength... You have a high concept of your own political strength and of yourself, which is not bad because optimism in life is something that allows you to feel good and comfortable, but you have to walk carefully because reality is often implacable. None of us here should forget that. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to talk about democracy and we are going to talk about why I am here today by submitting to this investiture session and, for example, why you are not here. [[Laughter]] It's me, but you're not. And why is this so? Let's see if I can explain. [[Laughter]] Because the Spaniards have preferred the People's Party very much, and that's important - that's why I said we were going to talk about democracy - and, as I said before, it's good that we all internalize it; I've internalized it, you... I don't know yet. [[Laughter]] But, although we, as you have said, are a horror or quintessence of all possible evils - I am not going to discuss it at this time, then I will tell you something -, the truth is that the Spaniards have made the decision that they considered appropriate and convenient. Therefore, it will have to be agreed that what you say does not coincide with what a great majority of the Spaniards think and I cannot accept that their opinion is of better condition than that of the rest of the Spaniards. Secondly, Mr Iglesias, also on democracy. If we are who we are and have done the things we have done, why do we have more support than you? Have you stopped to think about it? Or are we lucky? Don't you have anything to think about? It is certainly true all that you have said and I will not question what is going to happen in the future with us, with you and with others, but since you have spoken about the future and the past, remember two dates: 20 December, election results, and 26 June, election results, yours and ours, Mr. Churches. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot accept, and you have to understand, whether I am here for a strange conspiracy or because someone in a political party has made some or other decisions, changed some or others, that is not true, and we have to get used to telling the truth. We're here because we won the election! If you weren't here! [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Yeah, yeah, because we won the election, that's why we're here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a second reason why I am here and no one has managed to articulate a minimally reasonable alternative majority. Do you realize that? Not even you! You have also failed to articulate a reasonable majority, modesty aside, I have. [[Laughter and applause]] Now, I want you to understand me well. The fact that you have failed to articulate a minimally reasonable majority does not mean that I am here because of you, that it is clear, or thanks to you, that it would be even worse. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter and applause]] But the only thing that means, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have not been able to articulate a reasonable majority to something as bad or as bad, if you want, as what this parliamentary group means. That's all it means. To something so bad and so terrible they have not articulated a reasonable majority nor have they been able to win the elections. You'll have to think about why that was so. Ladies and gentlemen, what is going to happen here is very reasonable, Mr Iglesias, because it is what has happened in Spain since 1977 and is that it has always governed the most voted force. It is true that everything that has happened in Spain since 1977 seems very bad to you, but we will talk about that later. Now all I want to point out is something as obvious as the normal thing is happening here in democracies, which does not mean that there can be no different situation and there can be coalitions, but this is the normal thing here and in all the countries of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not like to be afraid - I believe that, even if I try not to - I am not afraid of almost anything, nor of demonstrations or general strikes - I have had two in six months - but I thought it was important to make a job reform as the course of time later demonstrated, nor am I afraid of words. I am not afraid of demonstrations, Mr. Iglesias, or of industrial strikes, another thing is that I believe that this is not the best way to solve the problems of anyone or, of course, to solve the problems of the Spaniards. But I believe that the right to strike and the right to protest - and many other people's rights - are something that is recognized in our constitutional text and in those of all democracies. Therefore I will not say a single word about it unless if I had to vote on another constitution, it would be the right to strike and the right to protest. Now, as far as the issue of demonstrations is concerned, to which you have referred, we have some doubts. Because someone might think you're not doing your job right if people are forced to go out on the streets. [[A Member: Yes, sir.-Applause.]] Before, when you weren't here, those we were weren't representing you; then it was logical for them to come out. But does that mean that those who go out on the street don't feel represented by you either, Mr. Churches? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, everyone knew that I was not perfect, everyone; what I don't know is if everyone knew that there was someone else who wasn't perfect either. [[Laughter and applause]] I don't usually talk about Cuba or Venezuela, as you know very well. There you talk about me from time to time, in not too glamorous terms but, what are we going to do to it. [[Laughter]] I only tell you one thing, for Cuba and for Venezuela, I only want what I want for the Spanish: democracy, freedom, human rights, the rule of law, economic and social progress, public pension system. [[One Member: Very well.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the calamities suffered by all the people who live in this country, it has been one after another. It's very easy to use thick disqualification to argue because you don't have to think and you don't have to argue to repeat. You used to talk about Google, but what you're asking is a Twitter debate, because you say: pensions are wrong, I don't know what is wrong, I don't know how many are wrong. [[Laughter and applause]] It's very difficult for me to answer everything. I don't do well in those worlds, but I can say that there are some positive things in Spain as well. For example, we live in a country that is not bad, Mr. Iglesias, frankly, and then I will talk about the 1978 regime by replying to my friend, Mrs. Fernández. It is a country where there are freedoms, where there is democracy, where there is a constitution, where there are human rights, where there is well-being, where almost 2 million foreigners who have come to work because they wanted to, not because we have forced them. Where more than 70 million tourists come from each year; unless someone I don't know is forced to come because something good will be here. Where there are good infrastructures, you know it: railways, roads. Where there are very important Spanish companies that invest outside. Where there are companies that export, and a lot. Where there is a public health system like the one that has very few in the world - this is good that we all know it and be aware - and an educational system that is improveable, of course, but there is. And a public pension system that is similar in a few countries around the world. So, something good we'll have done those that you call the triple alliance, something good we'll have done. In life you always have to be weighted because if you are not weighted you don't get anywhere. In any case, I have no interest in entering into discussions about strategies of one or the other. Mr Domènech, the arguments you have used are similar, as it could not otherwise be, to those of Mr Iglesias, but, I insist, it is important to say that I am not here because someone abstained. I am here, as I was two months ago, because I won the elections and because I was given the formation of a government, and because no one was able to present an alternative. I don't know if we have a future or not. You say no. Hey, we'll see about that. I'm not going in there to discuss that. You're talking about the resigned. I've never resigned. I'm trying to make things right. I think there are many Spaniards and also many Catalans. We have greatly improved our positions in Catalonia after the last elections and, therefore, we are going to work on the future. In Catalonia we don't think the same. Clearly, we don't think alike. You talk about the right to decide, but I want everyone to decide. If there is any problem at all, I do not want Mrs Fernández to let you vote in Galicia. I will be there to tell you: Mr Domènech also has the right to vote in Galicia. And I want all Spaniards to be able to decide what our country is by voting in favour of it. I mean, what Spain is, we all decided Spanish. That's what happens everywhere. I do not use the Spanish Constitution as a bold weapon against anyone. I say something that I think is obvious and that the law must be complied with, because if we do not comply with it we have more responsibilities and because we are here, among other reasons, what moral authority do we have to tell people not to comply with the law or to comply with the law? And what are the laws that must be complied with and those that must not be complied with? And what are the judgments of the courts, for example, of the Constitutional Court, which must be complied with and those which must not be complied with? I mean, the ones you don't like, you don't like, and the ones you like, you like. Do you think that something can be built, in the middle of the 21st century, with such sort of approaches? You can't! There are some things we can't discuss even those we're here, like the law is enforced, like the Spaniards have the right to decide what their country is. And then the law can be changed! If there are procedures to do it! The Constitution can be amended. What you can't do is jump into anger, and more if it's someone who has responsibilities. In reply to Mr Hernando's intervention, in the first part of this second part of the investiture session I said this morning that I was willing to talk, to dialogue, to listen, to put on my side all that I am capable of; but what I cannot accept - neither I nor anyone - neither in politics nor in any facet of life, is that someone feels with a document that is a contract of accession. That is not democratic; that is not dialogue; that is not talking; that is not negotiating, and never, with that procedure, can any agreement be reached. [[Applauds]] I don't know why you claim - I probably haven't been able to understand it - that this investiture is built on a farce. No, this is an investment like so many others that have taken place in Spain over the past few years or in other countries of the European Union, with some differences. On other occasions, the majority party either ruled without support within the House or lacked much to do so. On this occasion, things have changed, but this is happening in Europe. In many European countries there are coalitions and there is good will on the part of all so that this coalition can work. What makes no sense - which is what I tried to defend this morning in my speech - is that someone is allowed to rule and then it is not possible that someone actually can. That is not the system that is being carried out in Europe where, I insist, the issue of coalitions is something that is on the agenda. And what happens in the future in Spain, we will see. For the time being, the People's Party has been the first; the Socialist Party has been the second, up to there as always or changed; you are the third; Citizens have been the fourth; and then we will see. I, of course, will work to win the election, and I don't think that anyone can feel bad about that. Mr Garzón, today they have touched some more than others, with which I have to defend the positions of my party, I do not have much to point out. If any; you have spoken of the Members we have lost, of the votes, of what we were punished, but I have to tell you one thing: I prefer to have my election results to yours. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] And from there, what else. [[Applauds]] Of course, I do not feel that anyone has made any political decision to maintain article 135 of the Constitution - an article that I am certainly very proud of - or to ensure that structural reforms are not made or that cuts are maintained or stopped. The decisions that have been made here have been: we because we assume the responsibility of being the first political force, Citizens because it has seemed timely and convenient to attempt to build an alternative that can govern and the Socialist Party for the reasons that Mr Hernando has explained to us here this morning. I therefore do not think it sensible for you to act as an interpreter or commentator of the decisions that we take by the various political groups in this House. In any case, as you know very well, even if you do not say so, this decision that has been taken here is a European, sensible and reasonable decision. Mrs Fernández, in the last investiture debate you joined me and announced the defeat of the People's Party in Galicia on 25 September. [[Laughter]] I am not going to go into details either about the future or about the past, but there is one thing I would like to make clear. The global disqualification you have made of the 1978 regime is a profound injustice, it is absolutely contrary to the truth and it is exactly what a very small part of the Spaniards think, perhaps some because they were not there. Therefore, it is up to me now to do pedagogy. The regime you call 1978 was a regime in which many people had to make expensive and important decisions. It was not easy to move from an authoritarian system to a democratic system, and that was done here and did well; I can say it because I was not there. It is a regime that brought to Spain a system of freedoms, a system of democracy, which allowed us to enter the European institutions shortly afterwards. You do not remember it because it was born when there was already democracy, freedoms, rights, when we were in Europe and when this country was growing gradually, economic and social progress, increasing its per capita income and beginning to have a better pension system, starting to build - or even ending - a public, universal and free health system and a universal, public and free education system in which you certainly studied. Therefore, I insist, let me do a little justice and tell the story as I lived it - and some of us live it - and let us be proud of some that we have already spent some time in politics, of what we have done over these years. The story of the last forty years in Spain starring the bad - which there are apparently many here - has been a success story, at least so we think very much. [[Applauds]] I like Article 135 and I am not the only one who likes it, it is that in all the countries of the European Union there is an Article 135 or one that says the same thing as 135. Yes, budgetary stability is mandatory in the euro area, but budgetary stability is mandatory. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] The truth is that we may all be wrong, except for you, but let me at least call it into question. I believe that the succession in the Crown has been done very well, fulfilling the procedures that mark our Constitution. I do not believe in any conspiracy theory and here we are for what I have said before, because no one has a majority and, logically, we have an obligation among all of us to form a government. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u35	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, I believe you when you say you don't handle yourself well with Twitter, that's right, you handle yourself wonderfully with SMS. [[Applauds]] I thank him for the tone of his speech, which unfortunately contrasts with the usual one on his bench. There's something you realize when you get insults from the People's Party bench and when the one who's going to be invested as President of the People's Party tells one that he's not going to be President thanks to us. Of course, one has the feeling that actually being the opposition is that, because when one contributes to making someone president it is very difficult to be the opposition. So I accept the praise with joy and you will have us in front of you, we will be the opposition and we will assume with sportiness and humor the insults that you dedicate to us your bench. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] As far as criminals are concerned, there is not much to remember: Pedro Gómez de la Serna, who was told what was going on during the election campaign and you made him a deputy. Mr. Martinez-Pujalte, who was charging money from a builder while he was a member of his party. Mr. Soria, with business in Panama and opaque accounts as he remained minister of his party. [[Rumors]] I recommend to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party that when the word delinquents be spoken in this Chamber, at least out of respect for the House. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You have already seen that the Members of my group are extremely respectful. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u38	You said, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, that you are not afraid of mobilizations, of general strikes... Not sure, what you're afraid of is the judges, right?, or the police looking for hard drives at your headquarters or the police recording for thirteen hours the headquarters of your party. [[A lady MP: Come on now!-Rumors]] Anyway, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]] Calm down, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to paraphrase your parliamentary spokesman when he said from this rostrum, with an attitude that is customary to him: do not provoke me, do not provoke me. I would advise you not to provoke, ladies and gentlemen, especially if we are talking about crime and corruption. Mr. Mariano Rajoy said that if we do not want a government for this country; for I say it to you clearly: not yours. We do not want yours in any case and we have no doubt, and no one in Spain doubts that we are going to be in front of it and that we will never contribute, either as an active or passive party, to the People's Party ruling in Spain. Your Government, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, we do not want it at all. [[Applauds]] You said: reality is relentless. Don't tell me, you tell the Spanish citizens, the people who were evicted without asking for the card of the party in which they were campaigning, the people who were unemployed or the young people who were forced to emigrate, the grandparents who didn't get their pension. They know perfectly well that reality is implacable. And you are responsible for that reality with policies that have forced a large part of my country's population to hold their shoulders in order to move forward without the help of your Government, which is what worries us, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. You said something that worries me. You say: we have had more votes than you. Well, I think the one that should be worried about is you, not me. We, in just over two years of existence, have many more votes than the People's Alliance - founded by Mr Manuel Fraga, then minister of a dictatorship - in the same years of existence that we have. I assure you that as this continues, it will only be a matter of time. And I would ask you, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, to the extent that you are going to be President of the Government, not to let go of the direction of history. You are going to be president because you have had to break something that was fundamental to the stability of the Spanish political system of 1978: turnism. You have had to put an end to turnism, which is what served so that in this country, as in many European countries, there would be a great centre-right and a great centre-left. You, in order to save your party and your Government, have loaded one of the bases of operation of the Spanish political system, and you are beating yourself in the chest despite having had modest electoral results, closer to those that you had at the end of the 1980s than to the electoral results that you had in 2011. Then, I would simply ask you, I would appeal to something that is usually a feature of you, which is prudence. If in just over two and a half years we have a Parliament like we have, if in just over two and a half years you need the Socialist Party to be president of the government, unless you, after this legislature, want to retire and go home to rest, I would tell you and your party that you have many reasons to be concerned. If we take into account, as the polls say, that you are the fourth party in Spain among children under the age of 25 and that you are a subsidiary force among children under the age of 45, it is perhaps only a matter of waiting and it is evidence that you represent the past and there are others who represent the future. [[Rumors]] So I'd ask you for caution. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u40	You have made an explanation of representativeness in such a way that if someone is mobilized it is because they do not feel represented here. But, hey!, that this is a democracy, that democracies are not based only on voting every four years, that in democracy there are civil rights, that people, in democracy, can come out and get together. And it's that, besides, you don't have a hard face, you've done it, you've come out to mobilize when you were opposition. And it's normal, and it's okay and I'm going to defend that in my country you can mobilize and you can mobilize everyone. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u41	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u42	And when you mobilize, I will not say: why do you mobilize if you already have Members in Parliament? In democracy, it is good that there are mobilizations. In democracy it is good that civil rights are exercised, although you, as you demonstrated with the Law gag, seem to dislike civil rights, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Be careful, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, you have more Spaniards against than Spaniards in favor. [[Rumors]] [[Some Members: Nooo! Oh!]] More Spanish and many Spanish. And I assure you, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, that in this country many things have changed and in this country people are already sick of certain things being done in the same way. Even if you are going to be president thanks to Mr Rivera and thanks to the Socialist Party, in this country people are sick of corruption, people are sick of cuts, people are sick of deprivation and people want to be governed differently and better governed. And I speak to him with all humility representing a political space that is a force of government and that already rules in the main cities of this country. Prudence! Because sometimes things don't happen immediately, they just take a little longer. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, we are going to be faced in this legislature basically because we love our homeland, we love Spain and we love the good things that are in our country, because, indeed, in our country there are many good things in spite of you; and like us, many compatriots who do not sit in a seat but who defend a public health system, who defend a public education system, who defend the right to housing, who defend civil rights. When working-class organizations call for a general strike, what they are doing is defending the social rights and the conquered rights of workers. We do want to take care of what good this country has in spite of you, because we are the consequence of you. We are the consequence that people wanted to defend themselves in the way that you were destroying the best of our country. And I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, we will be in front of you. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government, Mr Rajoy.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Even if you don't share the statement I'm going to make I'll tell you it's true, on Twitter I'm getting better and with SMS I handled worse but now I'm also getting better. [[Laughter and applause]] [[Laughter and applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've learned. It is good in life to recognize mistakes and rectify. Therefore, allow me to recommend - and I do so with affection - that you look at me, Mr. Iglesias. [[Laughter and applause]] I am not going to quote any country or anyone from your party, but I am going to tell you that the Members of the People's Party - like the rest of the Members of this House - have the right, will exercise it and will not give up freedom of expression. That's where we could get to! [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you don't win the fight against corruption by commenting on it, disrespecting others or using it as a bold weapon against others. It is won by recognizing mistakes - whoever made them -, correcting, making decisions and working so that those things never happen again. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if it makes sense for us to enter into a debate on the results of the last elections. I accept the recommendations you make to me to be prudent, I am, but I don't mind being more, more if you ask me. I don't know what the election results will be in the future. You may have better results or worse. There is something that is very dangerous for you and I think it is my duty to make it known to you so that you can act accordingly. The problem you have is that you are now getting to know them and that is why the difference between what happened on 20 December and what happened next on 26 June. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] After listening to you, Mr. Iglesias, I felt that 1,100,000 young people quickly aged in that six-month period. [[Laughter and applause]] I understand you don't like my government. I'm not going to say anything about yours, because I don't know him; all I'm going to tell him is that I'd like to never know him. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] I think Cánovas and Sagasta is another story. Here are some political parties that stand for election, sometimes win, sometimes lose, and we will see, as I pointed out earlier, what happens in the future. I'm in favour, I've never opposed mobilizations, ever. I could also call for a mobilization. I think if we asked for a thousand, they'd come. [[Laughter]] But, of course, what would happen if instead of me being here, you were there, and I was there, and you were in an investiture session and you were out, summoned by me, a series of protesters... [[Rumors.-Several Members: For us? For us, no.-Several Members: Yes. Yes]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u45	Quiet. One second, Mr. Rajoy. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat to you once again, remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion makes no sense, because I did not say that you would summon anyone. I said: what would happen if I, being here, called a demonstration, please! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Iglesias has said that we have more people against than in favour. Yes, we have almost eight million votes in favour. Nor have you shown that these nearly eight million are in favour; we have simply been voted on and then the others are supposed to be against it. Man, you don't have much more than me either; you have five million in favour and I suppose against all the others, except those you supposedly have against are in favour because you say so and not mine, but that is the law of the funnel, Mr. Churches. [[Applauds]] You cannot put this argument to me here. Finally, little more I have to say, Mr. Churches, frankly. [[Laughter]] Are people sick of it? Well, yes, I suppose there are people who have it wrong; I guess not, I know that there are people who have it wrong. There are many people - I always say that I rise to this rostrum -, less and less, fortunately, who do not have a job; there are people who have temporary jobs and have to work to keep them indefinitely. All our public services have their flaws. We have a good pension system; the average pension since we arrived in the government, for the reason that they contributed more and for longer, is already at 1,400 euros; but there are certainly some that are very low. There are many things to do, but I tell you one thing with absolute frankness: I think this is a great country - just look at the surveys and studies on the satisfaction rate of people with their lives; see it you or Mrs Bescansa, it's exactly the same to me - and when you try to transmit - I don't know what intentions - that there is nothing good in your country, in the end that doesn't end up liking people. In the end, that is not profitable and will not work for you in the future, Mr. Iglesias. I'm done, because I already... [[Laughs.-Speaks.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Turrion Churches has the floor. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, I look at you a lot, but don't be offended if I tell you that for me you don't represent an upbuilding example - don't be offended - but look at me if I look at you. I welcome the fact that you are improving on Twitter and I also welcome your ability to self-criticise with regard to the use of SMS, but I would like - and I sincerely say this to you - to improve on something else, to improve on corruption. [[Rumors]] You said: the battle against corruption is fought for forgiveness, recognizing mistakes... No, you see, let us not deceive people, the battle against corruption is fought from economic policy; the battle against corruption is fought from fiscal policy. If in this country the tax inspectors were investigating the big fraudsters, then we would be fighting corruption. Corruption is fought by making the legal seal of rotating doors pass into the past; corruption is fought when you do not destroy hard drives of your party's computers; corruption is fought by being the opposite of what you are. That is why it is impossible that, as long as you continue to rule, which have turned the institutions into your particular courtship, corruption in this country can be combated. As for the calls, believe me, Mr. Rajoy, I don't have that much power. [[Rumors]] Now, every time something is called anywhere, it seems that we are the culprits, and I assure you that there is a civil society sufficiently articulated in this country, that it does not depend on political parties and, moreover, it must continue to occur like this. Do not seek scapegoats and respect a little more than our people can enjoy with peace, without insults and without appeals to fear, their civil rights and their democratic freedoms. [[Applauds]] You said something very important, you said: I would never want to know a government of yours. You're a Democrat. They've said something before that makes us different. When you were referring to the Socialist Party, you said: But, man, if this ideology is already an old thing, of the past; if, in the end, we basically agree, we have done the same pension policy, the same economic policy, we change together Article 135, which exists in all the countries of Europe; you and we are not so different. Well, democracy is being able to be different. We are different from you, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, and nothing will happen if one day we win the elections and you have to be the opposition; nothing will happen. We are different, we do have an economic policy that is very different from yours: we want to reindustrialize our country, we want to defend workers' rights, we want the tax inspectors to pursue the fraudsters, we want a tax reform so that the belt is not adjusted only by the people below and the ones above it too, we want democratic solutions to the problems posed by the plurinationality of our homeland. We're very different. [[Applauds]] Democracy is not the symbolic division of positions between two parties that are actually equal, which is what you have said here. You have said: but if we are not so different in reality, if the ideological differences are a matter of the past. Welcome to 2016, here we are, we are different and we aspire to be the government of this country and we hope that when that happens, you democratically accept it. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u49	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u50	I will be very brief, Mr. Iglesias. It is true that I have said here that I do not want to know a government of its political strength, but I suppose that will not surprise you. I am not running for election to govern you, frankly I prefer to govern the People's Party, but what I would like to know, if not a government of yours, is at least some idea. That's important because, I don't know if you've noticed, but you haven't given a single idea for the future of Spain throughout your interventions. [[Applauds]] In 140 characters, many things can be done, but really in life and, above all, in Parliament, arguing, reasoning, making approaches and trying to convince others is always better. I recommend it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u51	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u52	Silence, please, silence; please silence. Go ahead, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, guests, citizens who follow us in this investiture session, in this very rostrum on 6 April 1978 President Suárez took a role out of his pocket with a master phrase that defined the great work that the Democrats had to do sitting in this House, and that phrase said this: we had to change the pipes without cutting the water. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have to change many pipes without cutting the water, because we are facing a new political stage, because the absolute majority is over, but above all because we want Spain to continue to function. So it is time not to load the pipes, not to charge the democratic opposition or the Government; it is time, among all, to replace the old pipes. It is true that there are old pipes that will continue to work; it is true that there will be old pipes that will have to be kept for miles, but it is also true that the Spanish have chosen a new Parliament, and this new Parliament has to devote itself basically to reforming our system, improving our democracy, in order to keep the water flowing: in this case, the rights and freedoms of the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, the change has not reached the government. The Spanish decide and vote, and twice have voted that there is a more voted list, which is that of the People's Party, but they have also said that they do not want any more absolute majority. They have also said that they want a plural, diverse Parliament; a Parliament where no one has the absolute reason, where everything has to be agreed, where the word, above the screams, is heard much more; therefore, we are facing an exciting stage, a different stage, a stage with uncertainties, but above all with opportunities, because crises are opportunities - for some, for others they are problems -. We, in this crisis of a system that runs out, of a bipartisanism that ends, want to see the opportunity of a more democratic country, a more prosperous country and a more just country. [[Applauds]] Citizens, unlike others, who are in the no, no and not at all, we have been the ones of the yes. [[Rumors]] Those of yes to the two candidatures proposed by the king of Spain; those of yes to try to get this country out of the stumbling block; those of yes to the unlocking; those of yes to the reforms; those of yes to think more in Spain than in the political parties or the surprises. We don't care about winning, we care about serving and, therefore, we are here to serve the Spaniards; not for a party to stay first, second or fourth. Mr Iglesias, this is not a car race, it is a Parliament, and it does not matter who is left first, second or third. You believe that the priority is basically to dismantle the Socialist Party - you have devoted almost more time to the Socialist Party than to the People's Party in this rostrum - but we do not have that objective. We want to work hand in hand with all our compatriots - also with your voters - and I hope that you - all of you, ladies and gentlemen - are here to work and not to give lessons from this rostrum. I want to talk about these reforms briefly too, because we had another debate on investiture; in fact we had three with this one. In the first, we reached a government agreement with the Socialist Party, with 200 reforms, which meant a political change for Spain. It was an attempt that I defended - I think it was good what we tried - even though Mr. Iglesias did not allow it. There was no change of government or president because Podemos did not want there to be a change of president in this House. But now, given the reality, with those 137 seats in the PP, with this parliamentary reality, it is up to us to set this government in motion. Is that our government? No, but it is the only government possible according to the results that the Spanish have given us. Is that the president we wanted? No, but he's the president legitimately chosen by his party to lead the investiture. Everyone knows that Citizens wanted another option. On 21 December - Mr Rajoy referred to this earlier, and in part I agree - we believed that a great government, with three political forces, with 254 seats behind it, was much more powerful. With a hue, we wanted a new government, a new president and a clean government of corruption. That hasn't happened. The People's Party has legitimately decided not to renew, the People's Party has legitimately decided to systematically support the continuity of the previous legislature. I absolutely respect that result, but we must now also respect the work in this House. I am not going to explain the 150 reforms that we have made to the People's Party for our affirmative vote on the investiture, but let me give you a very brief summary of issues that are of concern to the Spaniards. [[Shows a sheet of paper written]] Look, this is a banner, Mr. Iglesias, it's a banner, it's a receipt of autonomous people; these are our banners, the receipts of the autonomous people. [[Applauds]] With this banner, which is the receipt that pays 3.5 million autonomous people - when they can pay it - what I want to prove is that we are coming to this House to reform. This House is going to pass an autonomous law that has led Citizens - I hope it has the support of this House - precisely so that the autonomous who do not arrive at the end of the month do not have to pay this receipt, precisely so that those who set up a company and want to undertake a project, a dream, an illusion or want to hire people, have it a little easier. That is why we have come to this House and not to make surprises or shouts or to give lessons to anyone. At least we've come to that. The new policy is not to shout, the new policy is to give solutions to the Spanish. [[Applauds.-Shows another sheet of paper written]] This is another banner that will ring a bell to many parents in Spain - also to me -; to whom we are parents it sounds to us. It's the bill for the textbooks, Mr. Iglesias, look at what a beautiful banner. Do you know what's going on? That with the agreement that we have reached with the People's Party - I hope you will vote in favour when the time comes - as we agreed with the Socialist Party, the textbooks in Spain will be from school, will ultimately be public education. That's a tangible, real deal. The change is not screaming, the change is that parents don't have to pay for textbooks. [[Applauds.-Show another sheet of paper]] And this is another banner, Mr. Iglesias, of social services, of dependence, because we have agreed in that agreement to stop the cuts in dependence. Much has been cut, there are millions of people directly or indirectly affected by the Dependency Act. A good, poorly financed idea. We want this to be the legislature to reverse cuts in health, in education, in dependence and that is what we have agreed to give the yes to this investiture. So with these banners, which you will find boring but which are the day-to-day lives of many Spaniards, what we hope is that letters like this will not be sent again, where the benefit is cut to the caretakers of the dependency. [[Applauds]] And so I could continue with many other banners of the daily life of the Spaniards. Do you know where those banners are? In an agreement of 150 demands to the future government, because here we have come to work, to fix the lives of the Spaniards. Yes, we have to work, because I know that some people are lazy to work, I know that some people don't like to work very much, that they like to yell or tweet more, but they don't like to amend laws, they don't like to negotiate an agreement, they don't like to tie their shoulders when it's necessary for this country. But we have not come to that, and that is one of the great differences between those who make populism and those who apply solutions. That is why we also want to work on a problem for the Spaniards, which is corruption. We - speaking of pipes - also want to replace those pipes through which rotten water has flowed, corruption. That is why we demanded the People's Party 6 conditions - which, by the way, took eight days to see them, but they finally signed them - including a parliamentary commission of inquiry to investigate the possible corruption of the People's Party, of the government party. I hope that We can join and not prevent it from being believed, as it did in its day with a possible Socialist and Citizens' Government. That's what we want. We have also agreed to limit the mandate of the President of the Government to two terms, to eight years. We have also agreed on a change in the Electoral Law, so that this House will see the light of a new Electoral Law. And so many tangible, real measures that affect the pocket, heart and soul of many Spaniards. That's the change. We also want to modernize our institutions, not just by talking about a Commission against corruption, but by working to change the rules of the game. We want the Attorney General to be supervised by this Parliament, as we have agreed, and we want - this is not going to please Mr Churches either - judges to choose judges and not politicians, as they do in other countries. We want the judges, in short, to be able to choose the General Council of the Judiciary. We also want the Constitutional Court to depolicate itself and be a Chamber serving the Spaniards, and not that before we go to vote we know what the resolutions are going to be, depending on whether they are red or blue. We do not want, in short, a politicization as some want. We want independent public media and private media without subsidies, to work freely and to compete with each other; in short, we want a democratic model, a model where the separation of powers will return to this country. Mr. Guerra said that he had killed Montesquieu. Let us see if in this legislature we can resurrect him and get the judges to choose the judges, the parliament to control the government and the government to adhere to the control sessions of this Parliament. Spain, gentlemen, is changing; at a slower speed than we would like some, and certainly at a much faster speed than some thought. We are facing a historic moment and we cannot miss this opportunity. On the other hand, I also wanted to address in this House the rest of the parliamentary groups, especially the main parties, to the four parties that make up 90% of national sovereignty. I wanted to do it, first of all, by addressing the candidate, Mr Rajoy. Mr Rajoy said yesterday that it will be difficult, but that the legislature must be pushed forward. I'd ask you not to wear the bandage before the wound. Between yesterday's speech and today's speech I have seen too much insistence on how difficult it will be and in which, if it does not go well, it is everyone's fault. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Rajoy: The most responsible for this going well or for this going badly is you. You know why? Because if you meet, as you said in this rostrum - I hope you will, and we will watch over you - the demands of Citizens, this will go well, because you will have a majority to carry out the reforms we have demanded of you. If you do not comply and make Mr Rajoy of the absolute majority, if you do not listen to this House, if you do not take into account that we will need other parties to carry out the laws, this can last very little. So the main responsibility for the duration of this legislature is the President of the Government. So I trust and want to trust; with all the resources to control the government from the opposition, but with a responsible opposition. I am convinced that it is much better to have a majority and to be controlled by Parliament than an absolute majority and not to have control of the government. That is why, Mr Rajoy, I ask you simply to comply with what we have signed, to put these reforms into effect, and then, when the Spanish begin to see that things are changing, this will surely be better, not only in the macro-economy but also in the small economy, in the pockets of the Spanish, in the reforms that yearn not only for many of my voters, but also for their voters - for sure - and for the Socialist Party or for Podemos. On the other hand, I wanted to address the Socialist Party, Mr Hernando. We have signed an agreement with you - I have said it here, I repeat it and I will not stop repeating it - a good agreement, an agreement with 200 ambitious, progressive reforms, modernisation of our country. Of that agreement there are 100 measures that are signed between Citizens and the People's Party. I think we have a path there, a space and, if we are able to sit at a table, I would say no longer forgetting the differences but fulfilling what we have agreed, this legislature can be fruitful. You have explained it well: it is Mr Rajoy who has to adapt to this Parliament and not this Parliament to Mr Rajoy. It is the Government that must understand that this House has a different majority, but that it will support it in what it meets with the different groups. So I would ask you to join those agreements that you - in that case, Mr Sánchez - and I signed, the Socialist and Citizens' Parliamentary Group, simply to carry out what you committed to. There is a common space for confluence to which from the center we have brought to the old left and to the old right. The temptation to look through the rearview mirror is going to be there, it's going to be safe. I am no one to give advice but, as I want my country and I believe that the Socialist Party will be necessary for important issues, those who go on motorcycle already know what happens to us if we look a lot through the rearview mirror, that when the curve comes you print. Looking too much at the rear-view mirror as long as you get lights and as heavy as the rear-view mirrors are, it's not the best way to rule or make laws. We have to make laws by consensus, we have to make laws that last over time, we have to make feasible reforms. And I give you an example where you were up to it: We can bring here, for an express reform of the Constitution, an initiative to adopt by single reading an organic law. That's a blow to democracy, that's what they wanted because maybe they don't know or like parliamentarianism. You, on the other hand, said with us: We want to change the Electoral Law, but we will do so in a paper, in a serious way for Spain to vote with a new Electoral Law. That's what I mean. I ask you, in the part that touches us, that we work seriously in this rostrum, please, that we do not pull for populism or for shouting or for looking for the rearview mirror. I would also like to say that some of the points that we have agreed are points that I recognise that you and we wanted to set in motion: a pact against child poverty - it must be put in place - a complement to lower wages, to curb cuts in dependency, health or education, and also the educational pact. We have launched - we want to implement - that educational pact; indeed, Mr Rajoy and the People's Party have had to rectify. Why have they rectified? Basically because they do not have an absolute majority, because from now on education has to be a matter of state, and a matter of state is discussed among all. [[Applauds]] So let's work together on what we agree on. I can look for differences with the Socialist Party or the People's Party and, in fact, for sure they occur during the legislature, but do you not believe that, even if it is more difficult, it is much more useful for the Spaniards to look for what unites us? Do you not really believe that at this political moment perhaps the Spaniards have given us a lesson in the ballot box and told us that they do not want absolute majority and that they also force us to understand us? It's just that maybe the Spaniards didn't make a mistake and gave us a lesson to all of us, to the old parties, because they lost votes, and to the new parties because we haven't won the elections, even if it looks like some have won them. Therefore, it is time for humility and giving in because, in the end, giving in is also a success when one has to seek consensus in a country. I would also like to ask the Lords of Podemos to clarify to us what their role will be, whether they will really work to add those changes that they carried on their agenda and that defended their voters or whether they have already forgotten their voters and are only obsessed with the overpass and with destroying the Socialist Party. We want to know whether the Party of Podemos is going to join the reform of the Electoral Law, join the anti-corruption pact, join the pact against poverty agreed with the People's Party, join the wage supplement to the lowest wages and if it is going to join a twenty-six-week paternity and maternity leave. We want to know if Podemos has come to transform and improve the lives of the Spaniards or has simply come to do the worst of the old policy of putting the elbow, partyism and thinking on the seats. That's important to know. I hold my hand, in spite of everything, to Mr. Iglesias to rectify, because in the end we are here to serve the Spaniards and I serve exactly the same and I pay exactly the same to a voter of Podemos as a voter of Citizens. Most respect for voters; some are disappointed to see that Podemos is perhaps not bringing those reforms here, that it is not supporting parliamentary work and is still a little bit on the street. I also want to tell you that when you throw the stone, you don't hide your hand. Left that is in United We can say: Only the people save the people; from United Left we join the call. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a sign.-Applause]] Mr Errejon, you said no, you didn't; you don't want to, either, but Mr Churches has joined. [[Mr Errejón Galván makes negative gestures]] You've joined, maybe you don't know, but you've joined. Maybe they didn't tell him the story in his game. [[Applauds]] So don't deny the mistakes because it's a mistake to be in Congress and surround it, plus it's scientifically very complicated. You are Members, you are paid a salary for representing the Spaniards like me, exactly the same, so I would ask you to respect the right of demonstration not to surround the institutions, not to surround democracy. You're inside, how are you going to surround her if you're inside democracy? Take part in democracy! [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a sign and reads it.]] United We can, in the face of the Mafia coup, democracy. State coup, they say in their tweet. Mr Iglesias and Mr Errejón, there are still shots fired at that dome up there, and that was a coup d'état. Here in this rostrum there were people voting for Mr. Calvo-Sotelo's investiture and, meanwhile, some real thugs came in and threw a dozen shots. [[Pointing to the dome]] There Mr Carrillo - of which you said he bowed to the oligarchy - sat, where Mr Madina is exactly. Here were Mr Suárez and Mr Gutiérrez Mellado, so, Mr Iglesias, coup d'état is what some tried in 1981 in this House, which has experienced very important things, and you in your tweets and in your comparisons speak today of coup d'état. [[Pointing to the seats of the Government]] This is not a Government of Citizens, but it is a legitimate Government, it is a democratic Government and it is a Government of all Spaniards, even though it is not my party. [[Prolonged applause]] I would simply ask you for respect for what we have been, for what some brave people have done - I do not say that you are not as brave as Carrillo, but at least it would be the same as you, I believe - and, of course, also respect for the future of this country. This is a great nation and this is our past, with successes and mistakes. The young Members of Parliament have been born in democracy, but you are talking about the 1978 regime. - Look, I'm from the 1979 regime because I was born in 1979; I guess you're not the only young people here. You're older than me, look, and we're not doing a competition when our mother gave us birth, because it's absurd.I know you'd like some older people not to vote. That is what Mrs Bescansa said: If the elderly did not vote in Spain, Mr Iglesias would already be president of the government. Hey, what are you implying? What are the Democrats insinuating, that they don't have to vote? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Another question. He spoke of some of his spokesmen as a single party; a single party is what is in North Korea, in Cuba, but here there is no single party; there are fourteen in this House, fourteen parties. And you allow yourselves to speak of the single party, the coup d'état, the illegitimate government. But what world do they live in? This is a democracy; so much so that we are here 14 groups arguing - luckily no one comes in through the door, let's hope -. [[Rumors]] Therefore, we also ask Podemos to join the reforms, but to respect the rules of play because it has cost a lot to get here, because some of us have worked hard to make bipartisanism a more open space and, now that we are trying to throw the corrupt out of the seats and now that we are trying to reform things, the supposedly new ones arrive and do not allow this to work. No, we're going to change things, we're going to make new policy, but state policy, too, thinking of the Spaniards over our interests. Large state agreements will also require great attitudes and respect. Mr Rajoy was talking about this yesterday and I wanted to ask him to make a table for social dialogue, because we need to reform our labour market. You say it's all right, but it seems to me that having 48% youth unemployment or 19% unemployment is not to throw rockets. Moreover, European judgments must be respected, so the model of 93 % of temporary contracts and 7 % of fixed contracts is not valid. And that's what happened last year and the penultimate. We propose a table with trade unions, with employers, with the main representatives of the parties so that in a few months we have a new framework, to end the first problem of Spain. But, as I was saying, Mr Rajoy - I am not saying this for you in this case - does anyone think that we are going to reach a job reform agreement in Spain for a new framework if we do not all give in a bit? Does anyone think we'll be able to sit down as employers, unions, political parties? What are we gonna do there? Are we going to set up a show or are we going to make the Pacts of the Moncloa? - By the way, this week is thirty-nine years old, if I'm not mistaken. The Pacts of the Moncloa were not a show, they were a meeting of social dialogue between political parties, employers and trade unions. We must choose what we want to be in the future, whether a serious, responsible and modern country, which also dialogues, or whether we want to basically make a policy of science fiction or a permanent show. That is what we want to do, a dialogue - in this case - in the work environment. Mr Rajoy, I ask you and I will ask you when there is a government that we feel we are talking about precisely how to channel this social dialogue and reform of the labour market, which no longer has more patches and which is undoubtedly the main problem for the Spaniards. I wanted to refer from this rostrum to what is happening in my land, in Catalonia, because we are concerned, because it hurts us and because we also hope that coexistence will overcome confrontation. Among the parents of the Constitution, in this same House too, there were two Catalans, Mr Roca Junyent and Mr Solé Tura. Two Catalans from seven parents of the Constitution - if you go to the Constitutional Hall there are your paintings, for whom you forget or want to make it forget - two Catalans from among the seven founding parents of the Spanish Constitution. Some Catalans have not given up that role, we are proud of that role and we are here to reform the Spanish Constitution, to improve it, not to destroy it. And I wonder: where is now the political Catalanism that sat with Suárez, like then Tarradellas? Where are the political statesmen who knew how to stand next to the important issues of the country? On the mountain? Where have you gone, to a referendum of illegal independence? To confront the Catalans with each other? I, as a Catalan, also tell you that we want to solve and settle the issues that concern Catalans. We will propose - in the agreement is - in the first month an agreement for a new law on autonomous financing. [[Applauds]] And I ask the groups in the House to defend independence: Are you going to be at the table or are you going to leave the table empty? Are you alone in the independence referendum or do you want to improve the public services of Catalans? Second question, if we make a working table as we have agreed to reform the Constitution, are you going to be at the table or are you going to be on the street with independence flags to prevent reform and improvement of the Spanish Constitution? And I ask you: when we debate the national infrastructure plan, where the Mediterranean corridor is included, are you going to be at the table or are you no longer so interested in the Mediterranean corridor? Of course, one thing is to say and another is to do. We will lead those reforms of Spain that are good for Catalonia, because, moreover, we are also headed by many Catalans in this group: four of the eight members of the leadership of this group are Catalans and we want the best for our land, and we will work hard to avoid ideological trenches, confrontations; but we will reform Spain, not destroy it. We're going to work together. [[Continue your speech in Catalan.-Applause]] In this same Chamber too - like many other important things that have happened in the history of Spain - relevant things have happened. In this Chamber, on 21 June 1985, the Spanish decided, the Members decided, that we were part of the European Communities, of the European Economic Community, which was then the European Union. Here it was decided that the Spaniards would become members of a European community, and then we would have European citizenship, and then we would share a currency, a passport. Here, in this Chamber. That is why it is important to respect this House, because very important things have happened here, not to look to the past, but to continue to do great things in the future. In this European crisis, we have to talk, of course, about refugees, about the refugee crisis in Europe. The agreement with the People's Party also includes fulfilling commitments to Europe in the area of refugees. Because you don't have to scream, you have to do it. We must not say, we must sign agreements and carry them out. So we will also talk here, in this House, about the crisis in Europe; the crisis following the Brexit and the opportunities they suggest for Spain. In short, we will talk about the main challenges at the global level. Yes, Citizens want Spain to remain in NATO; yes, Citizens want to stand by the countries that defend the fight against Islamic terrorism. Of course I do! We stand by those who defend freedoms and democracy. Canadian President Trudeau, the new president of Canadian liberals, said: we will overcome fear and gain hope. And he also said: we will beat populism by working hard - which is very applicable in Spain -. Yes, hard work will defeat populism and hopefully overcome fear. Because we must not be afraid of democracy or a parliamentary system, we must seize the opportunity for hope to flow. We have a dilemma, gentlemen, in the world. If we want old immobile politics, if we want populism - as is happening in the United States, they also have a Donald Trump - or if we want a third way, a way of modernization. [[Applauds]] We want to modernise Spain, put ourselves and compare ourselves with the best countries in Europe. We do not want immobilism or populism, because both are bad for Spain. We also want and address all the citizens of Latin America, all the Latins of the world, those who live in Spain and those who live outside Spain, who know that this is a country with open arms and that we are a community of 500 million citizens that we share culture, that we sometimes share values, that we share a common language and that we share a space for the future. So also to the compatriots here, on the other side of the Atlantic hemisphere - as the Constitution of Cadiz said - we want to reach out, because we are concerned about what is happening in Venezuela, what is happening in Cuba or what is happening in Colombia. We want things to go well on that continent, because many of our compatriots went there, because many live there and because many of them have come to live here. We care what happens in Latin America. [[Applauds]] However, there have also been recent failures in this House: the failure of the investiture of Mr Sánchez and the Socialist Party, with the support of Citizens, and the failure of the first investiture of Mr Rajoy, of the President-in-Office; and I, at that time, went up to this rostrum and apologized to some Spaniards, not all of them, go. I thank you today, I do not apologize. I thank you for your patience, I thank you because the Spaniards, despite the political blockade, have continued to work hard; they have continued to rise every morning to work; they have continued to support us; they have continued to believe in democracy; they have voted not once, but twice. Therefore, I want to thank from here the Spaniards who have persevered every day looking for work, working, setting up a company or fighting so that they do not close it, caring for their children, their grandchildren; in short, fighting every day, because the real protagonists in the history of Spain are the Spaniards. We are nothing but their representatives, their employees. So I, from this rostrum, would also like to thank all the Spaniards, who voted for the party, because I think it is important to do so. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are putting an end to a year of blockade, but we are also putting an end to thirty-five years of bipartisanism. A new stage is opened, a stage that we can catalogue as post-bipartisan, a new stage, unknown, but full of opportunities. That is not negative, that there is no bipartisanship does not mean that there must be no parties or that we do not have to talk to each other, but it changes everything because there is no absolute majority anymore, because the argument of being red or blue is no longer valid, because the nuances gain weight, because what unites us gains on what divides us. And that's good for Spain. The other day I was talking to some ambassadors, including Denmark, and I was told that next year there will be 100 years without an absolute majority in Denmark. A hundred years without an absolute majority! Does anyone today think that Denmark is a worse country than Spain or that other countries do not have an absolute majority? In fact, we get the colors: 6% unemployment, 8% school failure and the country with the least corruption in the world. Blessed problem not to have absolute majority if it corresponds to a prosperous and just country! Therefore, without idolizing one country or another but looking at the best countries in Europe, it is good to bring here today the question posed by Luis Garicano, our economist. We have to ask ourselves whether we want to be Denmark or Venezuela, whether we want to be an advanced country or a country with populism. What do we want in the future, to look like the best countries in Europe or to copy the worst of some countries in the world? I am clear, I prefer to look like the economic, political and social services system of the Nordic or Central European countries, because that is where Spain has to get in the car, that is where we have to be fighting for victory, not for falling in the category. I believe that this legislature is going to be a party-to-party legislature - which the manager of the Atlético de Madrid would say - but don't be mistaken, on important issues we play on the same team: it's called Spain. So, on important issues we're going to play the game on the same team. [[Applauds]] A few days ago, in the Princess of Asturias Awards, King Don Felipe said a phrase that I subscribe to and that I want to bring to this debate. The king said: Spain must turn away from pessimism, discouragement, and disencounter. We must be proud of what we are and what we have achieved together. I subscribe to that phrase and I am sure that many of your ladies and gentlemen also subscribe to it, because, in spite of everything, this is a great country, because pessimism cannot defeat us, because optimism is necessary and at the moment it is forced. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to put on top of what unites us and what we have built together, not to rejoice in the past or in the previous absolute majority. Mr Rajoy, that has already happened, a new stage is opening up and at that stage we have to look for those common points between Parliament and the Government. So I invite you, from our humble but important position in this legislature, to work together to regain the breath we should never have lost. And I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Spanish have made tremendous efforts in this crisis, I have recognized it before, but we must keep thinking about them. If we think that everything is going well we will not be able to understand what happens in many Spanish families, in health, in education, in cuts, in low wages, in temporality; their difficulties, in short. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has great challenges, because I have spoken to you about things that have happened in this rostrum but I have not spoken about things that are going to happen in this rostrum in the future. In this House we may be able to pass an electoral law with open lists in which votes are equally valid. Perhaps from this rostrum we will be able to suppress the stumbling blocks once and for all. Perhaps from this rostrum we will be able to reform our Constitution. I've mentioned the parents of the Constitution before. We are not going to stand up to it because we are not, at the moment, but if we have to reform our Constitution we will do it in this House and we will do it among all. Ladies and gentlemen, I think very good things can happen to Spain if we are all able to live up to them. To end it, as I was telling you, in other countries it has been a hundred years without an absolute majority and it is not that nothing has happened, it is that everything has gone much better than what has happened here. Let us not be afraid of dialogue, let us not be afraid of the agreement, let us not be afraid, in short, of what the Spanish have chosen in the ballot box. We want to open a new political stage, but that new political stage would not be understood if we told the Spaniards that we don't know how to talk to each other. The other day I was asked by journalists at a press conference: have you spoken to Mr Rajoy, have you spoken to Mr Fernández or Mr Hernando? I told them I'd talked to them and we're gonna have to talk every day. Therefore, it may cease to be news that political leaders or spokespersons talk to each other, because we are obliged to understand each other, because we will have to talk every day. And we will do it with those who want to talk: with those who want to scream it will be more complicated, but with those who want to talk, we will talk. Ladies and gentlemen, returning to the beginning of this speech, the President of the Government, Mr Suárez, said in his day that the pipes had to be changed without cutting the water. I believe that today we have another challenge - in a more comfortable position, of course, but another challenge - which is to change the pipes without cutting the hope and illusion of forty-seven million Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u54	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, President of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank once again - and this is the beginning of my speech - for your support and that of your group, as I did last August. I think yours is a good decision for Spain, and I said so in my speech yesterday in this House. Spain can no longer be without a full-fledged Government. There are decisions that cannot be expected: the budgets and, first of all, our commitments to Europe and the world. There are challenges that we need to address, most importantly, to consolidate economic recovery and continue with job creation, but there are others that I mentioned in my first speech yesterday. Throughout this I shall now make some reference to them. I believe that the decision you have taken is good because, as I have already pointed out on numerous occasions in this House, the People's Party has won the elections and indeed had a candidate who elected the party itself, as well as other political forces decided which one was its own. Frankly, I do not think there was a reasonable alternative and it would have been foolish to call the Spaniards back to the polls, so I am pleased that you have taken this decision. Furthermore, I believe that the fact that I can present myself here with the support of one hundred and seventy Members has undoubtedly contributed to things changing or being able to change. The resolution adopted by the Socialist Party in the Federal Committee last Sunday says so. The fact that I am here with one hundred and seventy Members is certainly a plus that must be taken into account and is different from being here with the only Members of the People's Party. Therefore, I insist, I appreciate the support of your group and now what it is about is to try to continue building over the next four years. The main objectives we agreed on in Mr. Rivera's 150 government commitments in his speech are employment and social policies, education, combating corruption and ending poverty. There is more, but no doubt these are the four major objectives. Let me begin by referring to the first: job creation and the maintenance and improvement of social policies. Without a doubt, this has to be the great national goal for this legislature and, without a doubt, we are on the right track. It is true that many things remain to be done and also, as I said yesterday, that there are too many people who still do not have the chance to work, but it is true that we are on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said earlier, today we have seen the data from the labour force survey for the third quarter of this year and there are undoubtedly some who have to move us to optimism, never forgetting realism, without which it is impossible to manage on any facet of life and, of course, in politics. The Labour Force Survey tells us that today in Spain there are 18,527,000 people working. At the beginning of 2014 there were 16,950,000 people, and there were no 17,000,000 people working. The same labour force survey tells us that in the first quarter of 2013 was the worst time for employment in Spain, 6,200,000 people were unemployed. Today there are almost 2,000,000 fewer people. Without a doubt, we must persevere on the path we have begun. But, no doubt also, we have not been wrong on the way. Undefined contracts are increasing, more than 200,000 over the past year. Without a doubt, there are still many temporary contracts, but we are walking in the right direction. And there are also some data that are relevant, such as that the number of households with all their active unemployed members is improving and that the unemployment rate has already fallen below 19%. No doubt, as I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, we still have a lot to do, but employment remains the top priority for the next four years. Because employment is also what maintains the social protection system in our country. It is the people who work who contribute to Social Security, those who consume, those who pay their taxes, those who maintain the great essential public services. We are talking about 63% of the total Spanish public expenditure, we are talking about 14,000,000 that day by day, month by month, receive benefits from public administrations. We are talking about a budget that in education and health means 25% of total Spanish expenditure. And we're financing this for all the Spaniards. And this, if we want to finance it, requires not only - which is also important - good wishes and good will, but economic policies that serve and are useful for generating growth and employment. Fortunately, the electoral programmes of Citizens and the People's Party coincide in much of the economic policy that we must carry out over the next few years. They agree on the need to maintain budgetary stability. They also coincide in the need to make reforms to be more competitive. They agree with the support that needs to be given - and Mr Rivera mentioned in his speech this morning to support self-employed workers - and I therefore believe that if we act flexibly, wisely and with common sense, we can not only implement the agreements that we reached last August, but some others with a view to the future. Therefore, I insist, the first thing is employment and social policies. Secondly, education. It is one of the most important issues and what has been most worrying and busy when we sign the Government's commitments. Education is the foundation of a country's future, education makes people freer, it makes people better, and it is certainly one of the goals that we must improve over the next few years. In the speech I made yesterday in this House, one of the issues on which I put the most emphasis was that of the education pact. I believe that we can agree on education if we all act without prejudice of any kind and if we look only at the objectives of quality, effectiveness and freedom. These are, without a doubt, the three major objectives that must guide us in the future. This morning, in response to Mr Hernando's intervention and in order to demonstrate the will of the People's Party to reach an understanding on this matter, I was in favour of suspending some of the rules contained in the Lomce. I insist, to suspend. I do not think we need to talk here about repealing, we will see what we have agreed, but of course the People's Party will be flexible. This has to be one of the great objectives of this legislature because we cannot be continually changing our educational system. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption must undoubtedly be, as I have already pointed out on numerous occasions during this debate, another key issue for us in this Parliament, and also the fight against poverty. I insist, the fight against poverty requires many things, but above all it requires resources, which in turn requires good economic policies that generate them. I now turn to the new political stage to which Mr Rivera referred in his speech. The agreement that we have signed - 150 measures - addresses the bulk of the concerns of the Spaniards. Here is the important thing, here is what a large majority of Spaniards - in the event of having been able to participate in that agreement - would ask for it to have been introduced. But I'd like to make two comments. The first is that in the agreement signed by Citizens and the People's Party there is not everything that affects the actions of public administrations, in particular the Government of Spain; there are more things. And the second comment is that Citizens and the People's Party add up, together with the Canary Coalition and the groups with which we have reached pre-election agreements, 170 seats, but not the majority. Therefore, without support, we could not apply the bulk of these political agreements. That's why I take the opportunity to reiterate what I said yesterday. We are certainly at a new political stage. I think it's going to be difficult, Mr Rivera, we shouldn't be fooled; it's not going to be easy, it's going to be difficult. But that is what we are for, and that is what I am for, which - I agree with you - if I am elected President of the Government in this session, I am most responsible for what can happen and for things to go well. We have to talk, we have to talk and we have to agree. The words governance, responsibility and commitment and their synonyms are going to be very important in this legislature. There will be things that can be done, not others; one way and another in another way. But I want to say in this House - and I believe it is my duty to do so - that there are some things that we cannot give up in any way. The first is to adopt a budget, as has always been done and as is done in all the countries in our environment. The second is to fulfil our commitments to the European Union; first, because they are ours and, secondly, because they are good for Spain. The third is to try and provide at least a minimum degree of stability to the Government of Spain. And I would like to refer to two other issues that are the most important for me in the future. The first, not to liquidate all the reforms that have been put into effect in the last legislature. It would be a mistake for us to act that way. The second, we can't spend what we don't have. I would like to make a comment on these two matters. The economic forecasts for Spain for the next year 2017 are reasonable forecasts. Spain this year is going to grow in the environment of 3%. The Bank of Spain speaks of a 3.2; the International Monetary Fund, a 3.1. We are therefore going to grow twice as much this year as the countries of the European Union, twice as much as France and almost four times as Italy, which is going to grow by 0.8 %. For 2017 the forecasts are that Spain will grow again above 2%; 2.3 is the Government's forecast, 2.2 is that of the International Monetary Fund. We are going to grow much more than the rest of the countries in the euro area. Economic and monetary union, 1.5; Germany, 1.4; France, 1.3; Italy, 0.9; and Portugal, 1.1. However - and this is important for us all to bear in mind, ladies and gentlemen - the risk of institutional paralysis is undoubtedly a risk that can affect these economic forecasts and thus growth and job creation. The rating agencies have warned - the last, last September - that the economic and fiscal costs resulting from the current leadership vacuum are increasing and we expect both a weakening of economic growth and a worse fiscal behavior as 2017 approaches. That is if there is no Government and that is if the Government is not in a position to govern. In fact, there are already some signs that can be overcome but that we should be concerned, such as the manufacturing PMI index, the indicator of economic sentiment or the credit situation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is my duty to warn in this House that reversing the economic policies and reforms that have been implemented in the last parliamentary term is not good for Spain. And when I talk about reversing, I do not want to say that sensible, reasonable changes cannot be made and that they can be useful for that great objective, which is economic growth and job creation, but if we begin to repeal laws that this House itself has adopted for the sole reason that they have been adopted by others despite being useful to our country, I certainly believe that we are going to do a weak favour for Spain. The second comment I want to make - and I am going to expand here a little further; I have already made a brief reference when I answered Mr Hernando - is about the care of budgetary stability and the care of public expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some facts that it is good that we all have in mind. Even at the end of 2015 - not today - Spain did not collect what was collected by the group of public administrations in 2007, eight years earlier. In 2007 the collection was 442 billion euros and in 2015 it was 413,000. But we have lost EUR 70 billion, as I have said in this House on numerous occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't spend what you don't have. Good intentions are very well - I repeat - but each one can do what he can, each Administration, every State and every person, and I think that is very well understood. Complying with budgetary stability, controlling the public deficit will make us more free, because we all have experience - because we have experienced it in Spain - of what happens when the deficit goes off. Then comes the increases in the risk premium, then comes the impossibility to finance itself that affects many administrations and then comes to have to pay for the price of the money absolutely excessive amounts. That is why - I insist, as I said before to Mr Hernando - I call for responsibility - which does not mean that no one has to give up anything - when it comes to putting forward in this House initiatives that involve an excessive increase in public expenditure, smooth and flat because we cannot attend to them. If anything has been useful in overcoming the difficult situation in which we still find ourselves, it has been to control the public deficit, because that has given us, in addition to the possibility of financing us, credit and trust outside our country. Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish public expenditure in 2016 is EUR 468 billion. The bulk of this expenditure is social protection - pensions and other benefits -, 187 billion euros; after health, 64 billion euros; then education, 43 billion euros. When it comes to social spending, it is never appropriate to forget that the bulk of the expenditure that all the public administrations make is social expenditure; I repeat, the bulk, much more than half, and that in order to maintain this social expenditure, it is appropriate, first, not to spend what is not available; second, to make reasonable economic policies; third, to propose and approve structural reforms; and fourth - with forgiveness - not to believe in colored birds. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said yesterday and I reiterated this morning, there will be a lot to agree on, there will be a lot to talk about, there will be a lot to agree on, but there are some things that should not be played with and that should be taken seriously. I know it is my duty to persuade you all that this is so and you are absolutely certain that I will try. Thank you very much for your cooperation, Mr Rivera, and for your support. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u57	Thank you, President. Candidate for President-in-Office, I wanted to take advantage of this replica shift to talk about that data that you were commenting on. It is true that you have presented a 3.6 deficit in that economic document that you have brought to Europe, because we have no budgets, and that the deficit path marked us 3.1. It is true that we have to adjust EUR 5.5 billion, but what we have to talk about - in fact it is already talked about in the agreement - is how we can finance social policies, how we can collect more with the collapse of the collection that has been, for example, in societies, right, Mr Montoro? It is therefore not necessary at this time to discuss what is already being discussed. In those 150 demands of Citizens to the People's Party that are in agreement there is a table on the last page, if I remember correctly, and on that last page we talk about 28 billion expenditure, but also 28 billion revenue. That is where the difference between the policies carried out so far by the absolute majority of the PP and the orange policies - let's call them that - that we put to them in those 150 demands. So, where's the difference? We want you to collect the tax amnesty money that you did not ask the fraudsters before 30 November - it is agreed in that agreement that you say you are going to comply - second, we want you to pay all the companies alike in that reform that you are going to carry out, that there are not a few privileged companies that do not pay taxes and the rest of the companies paying religiously - there are, according to you, 8 billion euros - and then we want to put scissors, not in health or education, but in the political bubble. That is the difference between the policies that you have implemented with absolute majority and those that you will now have to apply with the 150 demands of Citizens. That is why this Parliament has changed, because now it is not worth raising the IRPF and VAT again; in fact, we have agreed not to raise it again. Now you will have to reform the black hole - we can say so - that has been created in some privileges for a few companies in societies, so that all companies will pay the same, because it is not fair for some to pay more and others less, and we will have to put the scissors, of course, in administrative duplicities, in joints, diputations or public enterprises. That's what we agreed. I refer to your words. You said you were going to do it, because you do what you are doing in that role and we already have budgets; you do it and we already have budgets, because here are the data that you signed with your hand and letter to reform and to reach an investment agreement, and the data that you have published - that 3.6 and that 3.1 - to me sincerely do not worry much because it was precisely when your economic team and our team agreed on those adjustments and, at the same time, those social policies that need to be developed. Therefore, I am not overly concerned to get that out if you comply with the last page of the agreement. I am more concerned that other members of this House will want to support these social policies. I wonder: are you going to want, yes or no, other groups in the House to support, for example, equalising maternity leave to parents, are you going to want to equalise paternity and maternity leave in Spain, or are you going to be against it? Are you going to want to give a salary supplement to the lowest wages or are you going to want them to still be unable to reach the end of the month? Are you going to join the plan against child poverty or do you prefer that children do not have that plan? That's what we have to decide. And will they also have to decide whether they support the PP's initiative to go up to those companies that don't pay for them to pay the same for all companies, or are they going to be against them paying the same for all companies? Therefore, in this House we will have to discuss shortly what Parliament's priorities are, not just the government's, and I hope that in addition to Citizens, who want to cut into a political bubble, who want to pursue the defrauders, who want all companies to pay equally, there are also progressive parties, like us, who want to implement these social policies. It would be very strange to see Podemos or the PSOE say no to those policies that they carry in their programs or that we sign with them. [[Applauds]] I therefore agree with you, Mr Rajoy, that it is important that there be government and governance is important. As we have said before, party by party, and the first important European party - of Champions, we could say, and never better said - are the budgets. We have already told you that as soon as you get to work, as soon as you appoint your government team, we sit down, but with the agreement we have, that I think it is the fairest thing. If we have just reached an agreement, let us take the agreement and apply it to the General Budgets of the State. There you will see, that will be the first test to see whether the People's Party wants to comply with its agreements or not, because there is no new economic data from the agreement until today; everything has gone the way planned. On the other hand, I wanted to stop in the field of education. It's legitimate to protest against an educational model and sometimes it's fair because there are just causes behind it, but see how we're going to get in the end to change the educational model in Spain, be it consensus. It is not only by protest; it is also by negotiation, because the People's Party defended the Wert Law until four days ago - legitimately, because it was its law; the law of the PP -, but today, the People's Party, because it needs to change its policies and make a change of course to add support, has to accept that this national pact, which has never occurred in Spain in forty years, begins to roll. That is politics, for that it serves to have seats; not to have more or less power or to remove the first, second or third place from a party. It serves to change the course of what we have not done well. And we objectively believe with regard to the educational framework, without going into judgment on each of the laws that have been passed in democracy, that being the champion country of Europe in school failure is not to breastfeed. We have done something wrong, and more so with eight educational systems, eight educational reforms in thirty-six years. That is why education is so important for Citizens, but education is also important as a country model. It is not the same a country with a democratic culture, it is not the same a country with democratic values, it is not the same a country with equal opportunities in education, as a country that fails in education. And let me also say that it is not the same as a country that supports culture as a country that goes against culture, and that is another of the changes and demands that we have incorporated into the agreement: lowering cultural VAT, which ultimately puts a slab on the creators in Spain, on our culture. If we fill our mouths when talking about the brand Spain, is it surely not our culture of the best we have in Spain? Therefore, let us not despise it and do what most countries in Europe do, no more or less, which would be to consider culture as part of our brand, of the best of our country. [[Applauds]] But, Mr Rajoy, in that agreement, in those 150 demands that Citizens asked the PP, there is another important pact, another model change: innovation, science. We talked about that, we demanded a change of direction. You have been the government of Europe that has cut the most in R & D+i in recent years and we want to recover the lost, because that of inventing others is already over; now we have to invent ourselves too. It is no longer worth thinking as in the 1960s or 1970s, when Spain had only services or industry but did not create, did not innovate, did not improve. Ladies and gentlemen, the other day I was at the South Summit, the congress that they are starting in Spain, which is not Spanish but global, and I would like one of you to have gone there - some of you were - although I know that the political leaders, at least, were not. There is real talent there, there is the best in Spain, there are people who in three minutes defend a project in front of investors to convince them that they want to create jobs. We're going to do a tax policy to help startups in Spain, we're going to start that. [[Applauds]] There will be no change in the economic model, as some think, by hiring a million more public employees; there will be an economic model change if we create wealth, if we create businesses, if we generate jobs and with that we pay for public services. Some think this is going to give the money machine. No, no, What needs to be done is to give freedom and above all facilities to all those who generate wealth, because when you generate wealth then you can collect, and when you collect then you can pay for hospitals, schools and pensions. It goes in that order: if there is no wealth, we spread misery, so we have to generate wealth. That is another of the differences between those who believe in an economy based on innovation and modernity and those who believe that Spain has to conform by nature to being a country to trailer innovation. Sometimes we want to compare ourselves with other countries - with the United States, Germany or Israel - in innovation. Well, look what they do: they help those who create, they help businesses, there are tax subsidies, there is ease in financing these entrepreneurs. We want to be a country that does not force our entrepreneurs to go to other countries of the world; we want to be a country where young people stay and do not leave. Mr Rajoy, in recent years you have done quite the opposite, and what Citizens are asking you to do in these demands is to change the course. I guess they're not very convinced because they've done the opposite, but no matter what, I don't intend to convince them either, I just want them to do it. Therefore, the objective of this legislature from a responsible opposition, an opposition that wants to help lift this country, an opposition like Citizens, who knows how to shake hands with the old left, with the old right or with other parties, is to make them understand that it is the opportunity to change the future of Spain, that the future begins today, that the future begins now, and that the old tics of the old left and the old right do not serve to solve the problems of the 21st century. Spain, as Obama said about the United States, is not a country of red and blue - he said of red states and blue states - nor of each of us individually. Spain is a great nation, it is a cluster, in short, of wills that it wants to set out for the future. What I ask you, Mr Rajoy, to finish, is that we be ambitious, that we do not conform, because if we conform, if we fall asleep and if we go to sleep, the problems pass. I know some say that you manage the times very well, I'm more of a thinker that you basically let the time pass. But, in any case, apart from the strategy that each and every party follows, what I tell you is that there is no time left, that time is already beginning, and that citizens are going to demand from this government from a responsible opposition that measures be put in place to modernize this country. If that is achieved in this legislature, if we are able to implement the 150 measures that we have demanded of the People's Party, if the Socialist Party supports the 100 measures that are common to it, this can be a great legislature. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u58	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased, Mr Rivera, that you have referred in this second speech this morning to certain matters which are undoubtedly important and of concern to the common people of Spain. It has begun with reference to the public deficit, revenue and even budgets. I have an obligation to reiterate what I pointed out in my previous speech. I know perfectly well the agreement we have signed with Citizens - indeed, it is the last page -. I believe that we must continue to persevere in the fight against tax fraud, but it is also my duty to remember that over the last four years, through the fight against tax fraud, more than EUR 50 billion has been raised, which is not a small amount in our country - tax fraud, labour fraud, social security fraud -. I think we should do a policy of contained taxes, I agree with you and I have signed it. That is what I thought, and I keep thinking: we cannot raise the value added tax or the income tax of natural persons in this legislature. We have taken steps in relation to corporate tax, as you are well aware. In fact, we have tabled and adopted a real decree-law in this House but, if all this is true, it is also important that we meet our deficit targets. I have said before, and I repeat now, that we are going to see what is going on in the collection over the rest of the year, but it is important that we do it because that is where we play not only our European commitments but above all the continuation of recovery and job creation which, at the end of the day, as you have just recalled, is what will then enable us to meet social policies. I welcome his willingness, which he already knew, to work together to ensure that Spain has - and has as quickly as possible - a draft budget and therefore a budget for 2017. Budgets are political decisions that affect a lot of people. There are many people who live uniquely and exclusively from the State General Budgets, for example, pensioners, the unemployed and many others who receive another type of benefit from the public administration. Budgets translate decisions that affect people: investment, subsidies, aid, attention to R & D+i, innovation, etc. Therefore, one of the main objectives and the most urgent in view of the coming dates is that Spain can have the budgets for 2017. I agree substantially with what you said - I am not going to repeat it because I have already referred to it - in relation to the educational model. I believe that education and training - which includes education and more - is undoubtedly one of the major priorities for the coming months. It is really surprising - and I think I recall that it is possible that you have ever said this in this House - the report that Mr Juncker, President of the European Commission, presented in his day, which referred to the hundreds of thousands of jobs that have remained vacant throughout Europe, and also in Spain, because of the lack of capacity for new technologies. Therefore, we are talking not only about an educational system but about a training that will have to be throughout the life of all those who work. It is also important what he has said about innovation and R & D+i, but I want to say that we have attended to R & D+i. At the moment, much more public resources are being spent than when we arrived at the Government, despite the reductions that we actually had to make in the first budgets. I would also like to remind you that one of the few bonuses, if not the only one - I am not able at the moment to affirm it with all certainty - that there is in corporation tax is for those companies that dedicate themselves to R & D+i. The same is true of the Entrepreneurs Act that we have passed throughout this legislature. We therefore care about it and we are an important country in terms of innovation and also in terms of research. In any case, innovation and research are very important and are decisive factors for the economy, but what makes an economy work better, what makes a country richer and people's welfare and wealth levels higher, is the competitiveness of the economy, and there is no doubt that R & D+i, research, innovation and patents are very important. But there are many more things that matter and I will tell you again what two of them are: budgetary stability - I say this to you and to all the members of the House - and the structural reforms, which have been many - and then I will refer to them - that we have carried out during this parliamentary term. Spain has been a country that has improved, and much, its competitiveness because in Spain for more than thirty months prices have grown less than in Germany, which is one of our main customers and undoubtedly the most competitive country in Europe. The Spanish foreign sector for the first time in history has been positive for four years, and that is very important: we are more competitive. Exporting is good, that's what makes us rich because we produce here, people work here and we get remittances from outside. We are not, as some still surprisingly argue, a country of construction - let alone - of tourism or services. Spain exports equipment, Spain has a very powerful agri-food industry, has a very powerful car industry and exports chemicals, and in that we must continue to persevere in the future. I don't sleep, Mr. Rivera, and I don't settle. I try to do my best to do things as quickly as I can. If you review what this legislature has been, where a party presided over by a person who some accuse of not moving has ruled in Spain, you will have to agree with me that to fix the Spanish financial system, to make a law of budgetary stability, to reduce the public deficit in half, to make a labor reform, to make the Lomce, to make an energy reform, to put in place a reform of the market unit and so many other reforms, are not made being one quiet. [[Applauds]] If they could be done without moving, don't have the slightest doubt that you would be sitting very quietly, but I'm afraid that's not possible. Ladies and gentlemen, reforms must therefore be made, reforms must continue to be put in place - I agree with you - but it is also important that, in addition to reforms, we do not do counter-reforms. And I ask you in a very special way for help because there are some reforms, especially economic ones, that besides producing effects in themselves for what they are, for what they contain and for what they mean, they are very decisive for the confidence that Spain can transmit to the Spanish economic and social agents and from outside Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I will briefly address three issues and one of them on economic matters. In 2007, with the same profits, 45 billion were raised in companies and in 2016, 20 billion. This is a black hole! Where are they, Mr. Montoro? What has happened to the rule that they have adopted and that has made the same profits missing EUR 25 billion? Are you going to reform that tax as you say? Well, then don't ask us where money has to come from to pay for social policies because they're there, in the black hole, because a few companies have advantages over most and we like a market where it competes on equal terms, we like all companies to pay the same. On the second point, you said that you have done many things: Lomce, energy reform, R+D+i, etc. Don't go on because I think about the vote. Do not go on because Lomce has not been a good model, the energy reform has been a big deal and in R & D+i it has been the country that has cut the most from Europe in the last four years, with which we have to change course, Mr Rajoy, and that is why others have decided not to ask for changes, they have decided to vote no and to make supposedly opposition. [[Applauds]] But to oppose also is to bring about changes, and we have decided to go down to the sand and ask the party that will govern to change the course, to change in the 150 demands of Citizens to the People's Party, among them, the educational framework. We do not like Lomce, we prefer a national pact where important issues we discuss among all so that they last in time because if you make an organic law by absolute majority, when another party arrives to the government will change it and so on, but, instead, if we do it among all, rule whoever rules, it will be a law for all our students and our children. That is why we want an educational pact, which is what you have not done. You have made the Wert Law, not an educational pact. In terms of energy, in the end, do not let go of the breast because between the rise of the bills of light to the Spaniards, on the one hand, and the sun tax and the penalty on those clean energies, which is an opportunity for a country like Spain, on the other, we are going in the opposite direction to Europe. Citizens require you at one of those points to remove the sun tax. [[Applauds]] And see if there is the sun tax that on one of those laws that we have introduced, the law to suppress sun tax, you said you couldn't touch it because it had economic consequences. If it has economic consequences, it exists. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, in conclusion, we do not intend to make patches or counter-reforms, we want to modernise Spain and to modernise Spain we do not have to take dogmas or laws that are good in themselves because they are of the PP or because they are of the PSOE, but to make a good work model among all, a good educational model among all and reform the energy space to think what model of clean energy we want in the next thirty years. We don't care if the law was passed by the PP or passed by the PSOE, we want a law and laws for the Spaniards, so, Mr. Rajoy, don't worry, because we don't come to patch up or make reforms or counter-reforms; we want to modernize this country without a prioriism, without dogmatism, thinking about what other countries do and the best for all Spaniards. Count on us if you are willing to talk to this House, to make reforms and to improve this country. Do not count on us to patch, to cover or to keep that which does not work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u62	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u63	Mr Rivera, I will not go into detail in all the statements you have made, we will have time to talk, as you recalled, over the next few months, but I will make some important notes. What happened to corporation tax? We are faced with a case of offsetting the negative tax bases after the losses that the companies had and now at the best times they are offsetting them. That is why corporate tax collection is now smaller than it was in the past. Secondly, when you talk about R & D+i, it is not fixed solely and exclusively in items of the General State Budgets because then there is a very important part of R & D+i, which is the fiscal part. There, as I have already pointed out in my speech, both the Entrepreneurs Act and the Corporation Tax Act itself contain very important bonuses for this purpose. I agree with everything you've said about education. All I want is for the Lomce not to be removed; some things can be changed. I, as I have pointed out this morning, am prepared to do so and what ultimately comes out of an agreement in which we can all participate. However, I have to say that there have already been some positive effects with Lomce, for example, the drop-out rate to which you referred. It is still very high but it has dropped seven points over all these years, which I think is a positive fact and which shows that Lomce is also a law that has some good things. On the matter of energy, I just want to say one thing. My only goal - on the other hand, I suppose shared around the world - is that energy is becoming cheaper and cheaper. I would like to remind you that the system had a tariff deficit of EUR 27 billion; I would like to remind you that some of the renewable energies - I am in favour of renewable energies - had a profitability for their owners of between 20 and 25% guaranteed by the state, which in many cases became a sort of payer. There was no banking product like that anywhere in the world because it also had the State guarantee. That has forced us to make many reforms. You will remember - because you will have seen it also in the media - that the associations dedicated to the defence - legitimate - of their interests of photovoltaic companies and solar thermal companies were very critical with the government. We have even seen in the newspapers appeals not to vote for the People's Party for decisions that, in my opinion, were good for the Spanish as a whole. Because all this sort of premiums, gifts in quotes, in the end we ended up paying the whole of the Spaniards, at least the whole of the Spaniards who turn on the light that are an immense majority. Therefore, I am prepared to speak on this subject but, believe me, I have no more objective than to preserve the general interest; not the interest of either one. All interests are legitimate: those of coal, those of gas, those of wind turbines, those of hydroelectric plants. They are all absolutely legitimate, but we are here to preserve the general interest and to act with an overall view. In any case I am absolutely convinced that as we are going to talk, and much, over the coming times, I will convince you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Any time, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, referendum or referendum. In other words, a democratic solution agreed or a democratic solution with international legality. [[Rumors]] There can be no other, there can only be a democratic solution to the conflict between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u66	One second, Mr. Tardà. Please, anyone who wants to leave the Chamber should do so in silence. And I beg you, please, silence. Go ahead, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u67	Thank you, Madam President. He said that there was only a democratic solution to the conflict established between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia, a democratic solution such as that initiated by Norway separating itself from Sweden; such as that which took place in Quebec; such as that which led Belgium to evolve from a centralist and French-speaking State to a federal and bilingual State; such as the velvet solution that I admire all of us between the Czech Republic and Slovakia; or as the solution of excellence that was achieved in Scotland. In all cases, in all cases, it was the citizens of the nations who raised the aspiration that decided and not all those affected, just as the British - and only the British - decided to leave the European Union even though their decision affected us all. But you and your party, Mr. Rajoy, are on another wave. You participate in another political culture, and because you come from where you come from, you are not in the Champion of Democracy. Mr Cameron was; Mr Cameron never conceived of a united Britain by force, which is why, when the Scottish National Party won the elections, with 44% of the votes, he recognized the will of the Scots. Mr Cameron himself did not want anyone to doubt, either English or Scottish, that Scotland was a free part of the United Kingdom. If you, Mr Rajoy, had Mr Cameron's deep-rooted democratic convictions, if you had the same, you would have been the first to agree on a referendum. But we don't cheat. The distance between Cameron's course and his course is the same distance that existed between Churchill and Franco; between Churchill and Franco and his acolyte, Manuel Fraga Iribarne, founder of his party. [[Applauds]] That is, you participate in another political culture; a political culture more similar to that of Turkey, in its relationship with the Kurds, or even more similar to that of Serbia in the 1990s, even though they certainly developed it superlatively. Because their solution is nothing other than authoritarianism, force and judicial violence. Just a few days ago, here in Madrid, President Puigdemont, made a new offer of dialogue to agree on the referendum. The answer in the Council of Ministers, his answer in the Council of Ministers, was nothing other than to appeal to the Constitutional Court the resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia to hold a referendum; indeed, already materialized through the Attorney General's Office in order to and in order for Carme Forcadell, President of the Parliament, to be tried. That said, Mr. Rajoy, referendum. Referendum because it is approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, where the sovereignty of the people lies, where the results are unquestionable: a referendum majority compared to 12% of the Socialist Party, 8% of the People's Party and 17% of citizens, political parties, all, captive of the fear of the citizens' decision; political parties that have turned the referendum into the door of hell. Look at what paradox, only United We can, that they are in favor of the referendum, feel able to defeat the independenceists in the ballot box. It is necessary to be politically very cynical to deny, threaten and suppress the majority will of the people of Catalonia by invoking a Constitution that you have carried when you are interested in it. And I'm not lying, Mr. Rajoy, I'm not lying. At your request, the Constitutional Court, corrupted in its functions by the absolute lack of impartiality, charged itself with the national will of the people of Catalonia expressed in a referendum. That is why, since 2010, the Spanish Constitution has been dead in Catalonia, and that is why one and a thousand times we will tell you: cheats! And now you, the cheaters, those who urged and endorsed the trap, are willing to use force against the Catalan institutions to subject them to the very corrupt Constitutional Court that created this situation. Do you think Catalans are fools? If we were fools or precisely because we are not fools in Catalonia you have only one mayor, which means that we are not fools. [[Applauds]] What do you have? You have the strength precisely. But remember the wise words of Unamuno in response to Millan-Astray: You will overcome because you have excess brute strength, but you will not convince, because to convince one must persuade. Mr. Rajoy, not only with the use of brute force you could win. You know why? Because we are not in Spain in the thirties of the last century or in the Europe of war. In short, the authoritarian path you have chosen has very little to go on. Moreover, we - we recognize this - do not trust your democratic convictions, because you are basically instrumental democrats, that is, democrats to obtain international recognition, but the truth is that you are more than democrats are national constitutionalists. That is why you have decided to use judicial violence. Yes, because I remind you that there are already 401 lawsuits against Catalan elected officials, including Joan Coma, Councillor of Vic, Oriol Lladó, our colleague and Councillor of Badalona. All of them have been sued by Spanish justice in relation to the democratic process initiated in Catalonia. And this, why can you do it? The answer is very easy. Because in the Spanish state, more than a separation of powers, what exists is a distribution, a distribution of powers. This is not what I say, not what the Republicans say, this is what the Group against Corruption of the Council of Europe says, which has harshly criticized the Kingdom of Spain for not guaranteeing independence in the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. It is also reflected in the classification carried out by the World Economic Forum - those of Davos, his of Davos -, which places the Spanish State - attention - in place 97, behind Tanzania, regarding the independence of its courts. Despite this, the Spanish State is part of the United Nations Human Rights Council and the European Court of Human Rights. Because judging President Mas, judging former Councillors Rigau and Ortega, judging Deputy Homs by prevarication and disobedience - by the way, a remedy used by authoritarian regimes that do not love human rights - by putting ballots for 2,300,000 people to exercise their vote in a participatory process that brought together 40,000 volunteers, Mr Rajoy, is the anteala of his failure. Do you know why it's the anteroom of your failure? Because you turn a political conflict into a human rights problem. These cases and so many others that will come will end up in the European Court of Human Rights and in the United Nations Human Rights Committee, and so the world will know that you intend to hold Catalans by force. And to more repression, Mr Rajoy, more civic Catalan response, peaceful and democratic, and more emotional distance between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia. The list of defendants will grow, of course it will grow. It is now the turn of President Carme Forcadell for disobedience, for prevarication and with criminal responsibility, but in reality she will be judged for allowing the free expression of the deputies in the Parliament of Catalonia. Do you realize that, Mr. Rajoy? Human rights; human rights. You will certainly be able to cause us pain, of course you will be able to cause us pain, we know it, we are aware of it. Do you know why we are? Because we have consciousness and memory of our history. Just a few days ago, in all the cities and towns of Catalonia we lived with intensity the memory of the shooting by the Spanish army of President Lluis Companys, murder for which the Spanish State, unlike Germany and unlike France, has never asked for forgiveness. [[Applauds]] Moreover, the governments of the PSOE and the governments of the People's Party have never, ever, ever wanted to nullify their sentence. Of course, Mr Rajoy, we are aware of our difficult history! How do you think we managed to save the Catalan language in extremis? How do you think we have managed to maintain our national consciousness after centuries of suffering an assimilationist will on the part of the Spanish State? How do you think we have managed to forge a cohesive society, proud to have settled with people from all over Spain and the world? Why, Mr Rajoy, is this small stateless nation called Catalonia in a position to become a free and democratic republic? The answer is very clear: because we are aware of our history, and above all and above this because we are aware of our status as free citizens, free to decide our present and our future. Ladies and gentlemen, the Catalan people are not going to accept the chemical castration of their Parliament, for what they must know - and I say this solemnly - that if they disqualify President Carme Forcadell, the Catalan Parliament will proceed to ratify this person immediately in office. [[Applauds]] I repeat, the Parliament of Catalonia will proceed to ratify immediately in charge of Carme Forcadell. What the people choose cannot be removed by a political tribunal, it can only be removed by the same people. [[Rumors]] Little vision is yours, Mr Rajoy, of opting for an authoritarian response, because your choice is to guarantee a traumatic exit that will affect the stability of the Kingdom of Spain and even the European Union, for a clear reason that nobody escapes: for the extraordinary growth of the Spanish public debt that already reaches a billion, with b of Bárcenas, of euros, which puts you in a situation of great international weakness. [[Rumors]] Perhaps an authoritarian exit could lead to the failure of the Republic of Catalonia to assume the part of the debt that we must assume if there is agreement? In conclusion, you may start the authoritarian path, in fact you are already implementing it, but in the 21st century Europe you will not allow it to culminate, especially in the context of the possible collapse of the Spanish State as interest rates increase in the payment of the debt. Maximum in the context of the economic failure of the Spanish right, that it is ufana to know how to manage when it has only been concerned to keep the interests of the most powerful, since the nineties - remember -, when they privatized the public enterprises given to friends, with the appearance of a new oligarchy that until today has only been willing to harass the state, to impose a huge devaluation, to eat the public resources of the State of Welfare and to double, when not to buy, the governments. [[Phone, Repsol, big banks...]] And of course there is no industrial policy, cuts in research and education, genuflexion to energy oligopoly and tocho mafia, sabotage to renewable energies and deregulation of the labour market. In conclusion: the Spanish State is hardly going to gain a position - a position of interest - in the new global division of labour. You must not be surprised, Mr Rajoy, that hundreds of thousands of Catalans are convinced that, either we take a step forward with the state itself, or it will not be possible, despite being Catalonia a country of entrepreneurs, despite being Catalonia a country of medium and small enterprises that have managed to globalise their production, despite being Catalonia a country formed by popular classes rooted in the world of industrial work, despite all this it will not be possible to guarantee the employment and economic viability of Catalonia. Nor will it be possible to guarantee the sustainability of the social model. In other words, in a way of synthesis: without independence there will be no decent pensions, without republic there will be no real social justice. In short, we aspire to take away the slab of the monarchy State, which acts against the interests of the Catalan population, of the entire Catalan population, think one way or think another. A monarchic State that at the same time denies the right to decide of the different nations that make up the current Spanish State. And you know why you deny it? Because Spanish politics has always been unable to resolve national conflicts. In fact it is a long, congenital disability: the Netherlands 16th and 17th centuries, Portugal 17th century, American colonies 19th century, Sahara 20th century. So long and congenital that it even leads you to ignore a new factor, that the current conflict between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia takes place within the framework of the European Union. Well, you guys are wrong to be wrong. A few days ago, constitutionalist parties ignored President Puigdemont's conference in Madrid. [[the Royal House, of course; the Government]] On the contrary, a good number of ambassadors attended, in fact six from the European Union, including the ambassadors from the United Kingdom and France, and I have no doubt that their concern about the Spanish administration's inability to resolve Catalan demands in a democratic manner increases. Solving them without trauma, that is to say the path of European stability, as demonstrated by the separation between the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and also demonstrated by the independence defeat in Scotland. And you, Mr Rajoy, who is a read person, should realize that precisely because Europe has had the greatest land and sea empires, it has experienced the most serious conflicts on the planet. You should know and realize that precisely for this reason Europe has developed the legal principles and international treaties to resolve them. And they are all formulated from democracy and from the right to self-determination; in other words, conceptually for the twenty-first century: the right to decide. You should not forget that seven of the twenty-eight States of the European Union, one quarter, have achieved independence over the past twenty-five years. Mr Rajoy, you know that 16 million citizens voted for parties that pledged to prevent you from continuing, 8 million voted for you to be president again. In spite of that you have achieved it. You have managed to gather around you in a single bloc to the constitutionalist parties, the bloc that shields the regime - somewhat corrupt at least - of the 78. Thank you. Thank the great economic powers and the banks. Give thanks to some media, large media of their property. Give thanks to Citizens, born also to regenerate to a Spanish right that smelled of naphthalin. And of course, thank the barons of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, who have sold their voters, after betraying their militants. You have certainly achieved this, but in the coming months you will have to face three crises: the political-economic crisis, the moral crisis and the Catalan crisis. A political-economic crisis postponed thanks to the coup d'état within the PSOE, which does not guarantee it despite the approval of the budgets, in which it must include cuts of 5.5 billion. Unless obviously the PSOE again chooses for the lesser evil and folds back to you. First it was the health check, then the education check, then the Unit Law check, and within a few weeks it - perhaps kills - the public pension system. Secondly, a moral crisis. Look, in the trials of the black cards and the Gürtel plot we witnessed the so-called corruption of the butlers, but Mr Correa has already begun to refer to the big companies - OHL, ACS - that paid commissions to get bids on motorways and on the high speed train. All this no longer tells us about minor hunting, we are already talking about major hunting. We have entered into corruption on a large scale. We no longer talk about the corruption of the butlers, we talk about the corruption of the masters and their balls. We are talking about Mr Florentino Pérez and the 1.4 billion compensation for the Castor gas warehouse, which will become 5,000 for interest. We're talking about Madrid's radial highways, built for the strict interest of three companies. And we talk about how the financial system crisis was resolved in 2012. How of the 60 billion injected have only been replaced, according to data from the Bank of Spain, 2,686 when much of them have already been replaced in the United States and Europe. Or, note, how the 37 billion Sareb have been worse managed by selling flats to vulture funds, losing more than 2 billion in interest insurance contracted to the Bank of Santander. And now Mrs. Belén Romana - who hired them, sponsored by Mr. Guindos - who doesn't know where she is? He's on the board of the Bank of Santander. [[Applauds]] Then, who can be surprised that the oligarchy was alarmed by an alternative government to the PP that could uncover structural corruption, that could denounce and investigate the corruption of the gentlemen? That is why it is understood that the Baron puppets of the Socialist Party have kneeled to the factual powers via Felipe González. And thirdly, the Catalan crisis. You should believe what I tell you now, Mr. Rajoy. Mr Ayllón, Mr Rivera, Mr Domènech, Mrs Batet, Mr Campuzano and we have many differences, many political differences, but he says a lot and well about Catalan society, he says a lot and well about our elders and our young people that the great debate that has generated between Catalans the entire sovereignist process is based on democratic maturity, respect for ideas and civicism. And I refer to the great manifestations that have been of an independenceist and also of a unionist character. There's never been violence. That is why we do not forgive you, we do not forgive Mr Feijoo, President of Galicia, to compare the Catalan independence process with ETA. This has no forgiveness, we will not allow you to contaminate our society. [[Applauds]] I know that some of you would like to see violence in Catalonia, of course, but you are not going to get it. [[Applauds]] We are a peaceful, civic and democratic people, and they will not be able to sow a single peak of violence. Perhaps this message from Mr Feijóo holds in Spanish society. If you shut up, they have a big problem, but the ambassadors of all the chancelleries take note; they take note of so much stupidity. And it is precisely because of our solid civic and peaceful foundations that we are not afraid of them. We are not afraid of her actions, nor are we afraid of Mrs. Susana Díaz's threats, when she calls Somatén to fight the independence challenge. And as for the socialist world, I recognize that we have gone from the pain caused by the Catalanophobia of Mr Ibarra and Mr Guerra, to the total indifference to this new anti-Catalanist operation led by Mrs Susana Díaz. We will continue to say loud and clear: live free and republican Andalusia! [[Applauds]] And we will continue to proclaim the Iberian republics alive. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the PSOE, that in the coming months the Parliament of Catalonia will pass the three laws of disconnection: the law of the tax agency, the law of social security and the founding law of legal transition, thanks to which we will call the referendum for the second half of September next year, unless you want to negotiate beforehand. And if dragged into denying negotiation by opting to apply the National Security Act, which you passed ad hoc to remove powers from the Generalitat, do so. And if in their obstinacy they come to consider that they should apply article 155 of the Constitution, as Mr Margallo wishes, do so. Do so if you believe that Catalan citizenship the next day will abandon your aspirations; do so if you believe that the representatives of the people of Catalonia will betray the democratic mandate; and do so if you believe that this will restore the Catalans' commitment and esteem. Madam President, I'm finishing up. Do as you see fit. What we Republicans say is that with the proclamation of the Republic of Catalonia the corrupt scaffolding of 1978 can fall on them. [[Applauds]] In other words, our constituent process to bring about the birth of the Catalan republic, and our proclaimed republic can create the conditions for a constituent process in Spain that the Catalan republicans would like to see culminated in the proclamation of the third Spanish republic. Lord Churches, gentlemen of Podemos, forgive me, comrades of Podemos, I hope you will definitely opt for this. We are convinced of the fraternal brotherhood between the two republics. I'm done. You know that, Mr Rajoy, we do not have the loyalty to the generations before us, the democratic mandate of 27 September, the commitment made to citizenship, and the illusion of making a socially just republic, in which all people have guaranteed a dignified life, an internationally supportive, economically prosperous and sustainable republic, anchored in the culture of peace and human rights, bury any fears that you wish to provoke us. And since we are not afraid of you, Mr Rajoy, since we are not afraid of you, Socialists, we will not submit to your disqualifications, and you know, you know, that the Government of Catalonia and the parliamentary majority Junts pel Si-CUP will responsibly assume all the criminal consequences of your actions, as has already been publicly stated by the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont as he is willing to go to jail for having called a referendum next September 2017. [[Applauds]] Madam President, I'm asking you for 20 seconds. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u68	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to Mr Tardà's speech, a conciliatory intervention as never before, as all the members of this House have seen; a kind intervention - because it has been, indeed, Mr Tardà? - generous, and that is undoubtedly the intervention that must be made in order to prepare for a frank and open dialogue. [[Laughter and applause]] After what we have heard here, some in this House may seem Teresa of Calcutta. [[Laughter]] Mr Tardà, it seems to me that you are not afraid of anyone, it is that you have no reason or reason to be afraid of either the People's Party or the Citizens' Party or the Socialist Party. Now, when you come out of this House - if you have time and if you want, of course - you could do one thing - it is an exercise of enormous utility: see you on television and analyze what you have done, what you have said and how you have done it, and stand up then if it were not the others who would have to ask you whether to be afraid of you or not. [[Laughter and applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia is much more than you represent - much more - Catalonia is plural, it is diverse, it is powerful, it is open, it is dynamic, and in Catalonia there are more people than you. Some pretend to present Catalonia as a small society faced with the rest of the Spaniards, where the monolithic feeling of secessionism prevails, and nothing further from reality. Here are 11 representatives of In Comú Puerde, 9 - who are you - Republican Left of Catalonia, 8 of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, 7 of the Socialist Party, 6 of the People's Party and 5 of Citizens. Therefore, Mr Tardà, I beg you to be aware and act accordingly that there is a vast majority of Catalans who are not like you - others are like you and think like you - because you intend to sell as a wish what is nothing but the imposition of some leaders who are committed to breaking and breaking. And what a good ruler must do is not that, neither break or break, but work for everyone and not for his own interests, which in addition - his own, of course - do not benefit the majority of the citizens of Catalonia at all. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà has started his speech by saying the following: Ladies and gentlemen, referendum or referendum, referendum agreed or, if not, it is the same for me. That's democracy, that's dialogue, that's talent, that's what you offer, Mr. Tardà. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Is that what you mean by democracy? Because if that's the approach that makes me, what do you want me to do? Either I choose a referendum or I choose a referendum or I choose a referendum or, if not, a referendum as well. That is what has been happening over the years and that is something I have tried to explain in this House on numerous occasions - this very morning, before you intervened, Mr Tardà -. When you leave with contracts of accession, when you are going to negotiate pretending that the interlocutor can only say yes or no, it is very difficult that you can build absolutely nothing, and that is the problem - with all my respect - that you and some like you have. You referred to an intervention that took place in Madrid a few days ago and spoke of different presences. He said that there were ambassadors whose approaches were absolutely different from what they heard there, for sure, and, if they were in this House, from what we have just heard from his lordship. There, the supposed offer of dialogue that there was was an offer of dialogue to enter into an independent referendum, which, as everyone knows, is contrary to what our Constitution says. If there is no agreement with the Government, what was said there is that the Catalan Executive will make that referendum unilaterally. If you're going to do it anyway, can you explain why you want the government's agreement? Do you want to be legitimized by the decision of the government or of this House? Is that the way you have to understand dialogue? Do you consist in one having to give reason to the other unconditionally and also do so with the aim of failing to comply with the law? Couldn't they have a little more imagination? Do you believe that this approach can solve some sort of problem, Mr Tardá? Is that your willingness to dialogue, to negotiate, to talk? You speak of the United Kingdom. Mr Tardà, the United Kingdom, as you know, does not have a written Constitution and national sovereignty in the United Kingdom resides in the United Kingdom Parliament, and the United Kingdom can take the decision it has taken, but here, as you know, the decision on national sovereignty is taken by the Spanish people and, as I have told you on numerous occasions, neither this House nor the Government of Spain nor the Government of the Generalitat nor any public institution or anyone other than the Spanish people can take that decision. Because that's what we decided here when we adopted the Spanish Constitution. I have already told you, but I repeat it to you again; there are parts of that Constitution that we can amend here - because the Constitution says so - but there are others that are not because they are attributed to the whole Spanish people, who have the right to decide what their country wants to be. And if you do not agree - which you have a perfect right not to be - you will bring about a reform of the Spanish Constitution, because that is also provided for in the Constitution itself. If you do not like what the Constitution says - which is legitimate and you have the perfect right to have the tastes you deem appropriate and convenient - bring to this House a proposal to change it. Dialogue, seek support to bring it forward as we do the rest of the parties and as any party in any other democratic state does. That's what you have to do, Mr. Tardà. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here about judges, people and compliance and breaches of the law. It has not been the Government of Spain that has judicialized a political problem, it has been some of you. Some of its leaders have decided to place politics outside the law, outside the Constitution and in addition against the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Think about it, think about who made some decisions. And it is up to justice - because this is a democracy, Mr Tardà, despite what we have heard here this morning - to examine the proceedings and take decisions in defence of the law that it considers appropriate and appropriate. This is how a rule of law works, Mr Tardà, that is, in Spain and anywhere in the world. It is not something new and unknown to you that the law must comply with it. I guess you'll know. Or do you think so? If you think the law doesn't have to be enforced, go up here and say it. It is your actions that have changed and it is you who have deliberately stood outside the law, it is you who openly defy the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, try to answer this question or at least answer it to themselves: What would the Spanish citizens think if I said today in this debate of investiture that as President of the Government I will only comply with the laws that I like? What would they think? What would the opposition say if the Government applied rules suspended and even declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court? What would the opposition say in this House? What would you say if the Government of Spain decided that it will only comply with the judgments of the courts that it likes and that the others will not comply with them? In what situation would Spain - to give another example - be left if this House adopted a resolution not to apply Community law in our country? What do you think would happen? What would they say in Europe? How would they see us if in this House we said that such guidelines or decisions of the European Union here do not apply because they do not want the House or simply because they do not want me? Your Honor, we all have a legal system and you know what that system is for? To protect citizens from arbitrary use of power. [[Applauds]] That is the core of democracy, the rule of law and the law. The law is not a corset to oppress rights, it is exactly the opposite; it is a guarantee that no one can impose his will arbitrarily. That is exactly what the law serves and, among other things, that is democracy. It is that we are all subject to the law, all and, more rightly, those who we represent here to the whole of national sovereignty. Your Honor, I do not agree with virtually anything you have said about our country, about Spain. Spain is a democracy, Spain is a regime of freedoms, in Spain there are individual rights, in Spain there is political autonomy as has never been in the history of Spain, Spain is a State of law, in Spain there is a law that guarantees the citizens that the norms of coexistence that we have given each other and that power does not make an arbitrary use of their powers, Spain is a country where there is separation of powers - Legislative, Executive and Judicial - and Spain is a country where there is economic and social progress. You talk about Spain's public debt, because I will tell you that I am calm with Spain's public debt. I'd like to have much less public debt than I have right now. I have raised public debt because I have had to come up with many private debts that were hidden, like debts to suppliers or many others, but with that public debt Spain has managed to now ask for money in the markets in negative interest, Mr Tardà, and Spain has managed to get many public institutions that could not - and still cannot - go to the markets to pay their suppliers, to sustain their basic services and to be paying an interest that was 0 and now is 0,8%. That is Spain, a solidarity nation that serves everyone in the most difficult times. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you go back to history, and that's all very well; we can get to the Romans if you want and we'd probably have a good time, but today I'm going to talk to you alone about the European Union. The European Union intends to become an integrated and united community; we have been trying for many years, working on it for many years and taking steps in the right direction; some seem slower, others not very slow, others very fast, but steps are being taken in the right direction. Unity is a value, which is exactly the opposite of what you want. You pretend to go against the sign of the times. Today, when we talk of abolishing borders, of free trade treaties, of free trade treaties with more clauses than those referring to trade, where everything is closer, where we are moving more and more towards a country that will be the world, you are trying to delay time and turn back, walking in the wrong direction. I am not going to be there, nor are few Spaniards going to share these approaches, among them many Catalan citizens. The project we want for Catalonia is common and has been consolidated, Mr Tardà, for more than five hundred years and under our constitutional framework has brought us the greatest prosperity and the greatest growth we know. My project is to continue working for all, without exclusions - not without you, so far we could get there - so that Spain, and Catalonia within it, continue to grow, create employment and remain an international benchmark. That is why the Government will continue to work for the Catalans as it has been doing for the past four and a half years, meeting their needs, maintaining public services and of course also ensuring that the law is enforced. There are many things that remain to be done and I am convinced that Catalonia is called to play a fundamental role in these years, but for that it seems to me that it is essential that some abandon the policy of confrontation. Today, some of us have opted for a different policy from that of confrontation: that of trying to agree and do something reasonable. I don't see you, Mr. Tardà - and I'm very sorry - in that position. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u70	Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, they're not gonna get us out of the way, they're not gonna get us out of the way. Why is it believed that there is a majority, really, who wants to decide their future, who wants to decide their future today, in the 21st century? [[Rumors]] A society formed in democratic values. Does anyone laugh that Catalan society is democratic? Because I'm sure Mr. Ayllón and Mr. Girauta are going to tell you that this is stupid. I know that some of you would be very interested in the Catalan process being a war-civilist process, that there was violence and confrontation, yes, because you would have won it all by now. [[Rumors]] What's your problem? Its problem is that millions of people have been mobilized in Barcelona and other cities in Catalonia and not a single trash can has been broken. Does this happen in many places? Do you have any information that this is a recurring occurrence? You haven't wondered, Mr. Rajoy, why does it happen? Do people in Catalonia have no other things to do, even more rewarding? Catalan society has said enough and said enough because it is a mature society. You, in this process - it's easy to say and you're also interested in saying it - try to create an opinion that associates the Catalan process with division and fracture. This is brother-in-law. Conversely, do you know what the pride of our society is? Let all Catalans today, all of them, some a couple of years ago and some of them perhaps for a few days now, be federalists, autonomists and even so unionists that they would not even want the state of the autonomists, or be independentists, all of them. Even when it is in solitude and privacy, they ask themselves: what do I have to do as a citizen of Catalonia in the face of what is happening? A society that peacefully and civically provokes a scenario in which citizens wonder where my leading role as a citizen of the twenty-first century is being immature? I wish it had happened all over the Spanish state! I wish it had happened in all the nations of the current Spanish State because that would mean that the constituent process is no longer just for Catalonia, but for the whole State, and we would certainly make much more progress. [[Applauds]] You are not going to get it and the proof is that you have already entered the spiral of repression. After Mr. Homs, who will come? Mrs. Carme Forcadell? And then what will they do? Will they close the Parliament of Catalonia? Don't be stupid! We'll summon him to Poblet or Montserrat! And what will they do? Will they come there and close it? Don't you see it doesn't make any sense what you're doing? Can't you see that Catalan society won't allow it? [[Applauds]] Moreover, there are millions of Spaniards who will not allow it, even many socialist voters. They're not going to allow this drift. Of course, you don't have intellectual problems, you certainly don't have them, you live on rent. I remember that the Vice-President, leaving the Council of Ministers on 14 October - an important Council of Ministers because it was approved to appeal to the Constitutional Court the resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia calling for a referendum - said, almost textually: The gentlemen of Esquerra - which was not necessary, but well, thank you - are not owners, they cannot deny to anyone something that is owned by all the Spaniards. This is disturbing to me. Are Catalans someone's property? Whose property are we? Where's the title? The title of ownership is Spanish sovereignty? And is Spanish sovereignty above the democratic mandate in the 21st century in an advanced and mature society where everything begins and ends in democracy, in the European Union itself? But where are you going? They'll make a fool of themselves. The day you come to Europe and say that you have imprisoned the President of Catalonia, Carles Puigdemont, what will you do? What will they say? And that he's been jailed... [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, we have incarcerated him because despite being the legal and legitimate president of Catalonia he called a referendum for Catalans, independenceists and non-independenceists to decide their present and their future. [[Applauds]] But are you crazy? Have you lost your common sense? Have you ever had - seny for you -? Have you ever reflected on what coordinates we are currently in? Have you asked - I repeat - why? [['No, no, ……]] [[Laughter]] I have the impression that you are not able, not only conceptually, to understand where you are. Even so, the President of Catalonia has already said that until the last moment we will try to negotiate with you the referendum. We'll try because the pact goes with our Catalan DNA. Now, what stage are we on now? That if you don't want to make a deal, we'll call you back, too. [[Rumors and Protests]] Because it's you who's taking us... Yeah, yeah, we'll summon him, too, of course. What do you think? Will you come and look for us in our homes? Yeah? [[Several Members: Yes!]] All right.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u72	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u73	So, if they come looking for us in our homes, they'll have lost for a score. [[Applauds]] Moreover, I will tell you that we are not going to participate - and I say this with the words of the President of my country - in the negotiations for the reform of the financing system. [[Several Members: Ah!]] We're not participating, you know why? Because the financing that we are interested in, our real financing system, is the tax agency of the Republic of Catalonia that we are already building. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u74	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u75	Don't you like it? What do you prefer? Do you prefer political hypocrisy? We speak with a democratic mandate, with the democratic mandate that the citizens of Catalonia have given us, which is why we do not have to come here to deceive you. We tell them that we are not going to participate - I repeat, words of President Puigdemont - in the negotiations related to the financing system. Because we've been fooled many times, because we don't believe anything about you. Moreover, precisely because Catalan society no longer believes them, today there is a majority that wants to decide their future. Clearer the water. You do what you have to do; we will do it. I accept that there is a clash of legality, of course, but you, who is the registrar of the property, should know that the last will is the one that is worth it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u76	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Your Honor, do you really believe that inviting someone to participate in a dialogue, in which the only thing that the guest can do is to say yes, is really democratic? Does it reveal any willingness to come to some sort of understanding? Do you really think so? Do you really believe in the goodness of membership contracts? Have you really not stopped to think why we have come to this situation? Does it not really seem reasonable to you that the President of the Government of a country, who is asked to authorize a referendum to destroy that country, cannot accept it? Do you really believe that politicians are not obliged to comply with the laws? Do you really believe that? Are politicians not obliged to comply with the laws? And if they believe it, what is the reason why politicians are not obliged to comply with the laws? Who is the one who authorizes politicians not to comply with the laws? Can I authorize someone to break a law? What kind of laws can I authorize and who can I not enforce? Do you really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the way life can go in the 21st century in a democratic country, such as ours? Ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that if a politician does not comply with the law, no sanctions should be imposed on him? Is the politician the only person who does not comply with the law cannot be punished? And what does a good politician have that doesn't have the rest of the citizens? Are politicians exempt from law enforcement and enforcement? What politicians? On what topics? For what reasons? Do you think that this way of acting is in line with the rule of law and with what is proper to a democracy and a system of freedoms, as is the one we have? Is that the'sin' - I don't know if I've pronounced it right, Mr. Tardà - or is that the rauxa? Where have you guys been? Have you ever thought about it? From time to time, do they do a conscience test or don't they? I do, and I always try to think about what I've done wrong. Sometimes I get to find out and sometimes I don't; worse for me. But do you really think that you can, in a democratic system like ours, have behaviors like the ones we're seeing and like what we've been through lately? I am still waiting, because this is not the first time I have done so in this House, for you to answer me if we are or are not obliged to comply with the law, and if you consider that you are obliged to comply with the law or if you have the right to breach it and many of the people you have cited may also fail to comply with it. And the others who are here can or can't? And those who are outside and are listening to us right now are obliged to comply with the law, Mr. Tardà? With what arguments can we convince you if we hold the theses that you defended here this morning? Your Honor, your intervention today has not been to build. His intervention today has been installed - and it is too long - in the confrontation. It's true you're telling us. He says: I have a mandate and I come here to say what I consider appropriate and convenient. Man, I would like to have, apart from having a mandate, a minimum of will to reach an understanding on a subject that is important to everyone. I do not want to derail or derail anything, Mr Tardà, nor do I want divisions or civil war - for God's sake, what you say in this House! - nor do I want divisions between anyone; between Catalans, or between Catalans and the rest of the Spanish. What I want is to live in a united Spain as always, within a united Europe as always and within a world that, fortunately, is taking more and more steps towards unity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u79	Thank you. Mr. Rajoy, I think you have distorted my words. Precisely I told him that Catalan society is sufficiently mature, civic, peaceful and democratic so that it is leading something unusual in Europe at the moment - unusual - and that it also draws attention to having this characteristic of a civic and peaceful process. It is clear that we are going to win because everything has a characteristic, no violence, and I ratify it. So we're going to fight this idea that you're trying to inoculate. Secondly, from this very seat I have already told you once that I remembered Rosa Parks. Rosa Parks in 1955 dared to skip the Alabama Constitution of 1901. Do you know why he did it? Because she felt that she was so tired, after twelve hours of work, that she had the right to sit on a bus even when it was a reserved place for whites, and they arrested her. Do you know what she was accused of? Disobedience. Look! It is clear that by jumping the law it provoked a movement that Martin Luther King then energized. So this debate on the law and respect for the law applies it to itself. I tell you that we have a democratic mandate; I tell you that we live in the Europe of the twenty-first century, in which everything begins and everything ends in democracy, that there is an empowerment of citizens and that it is clear that before this empowerment there are only two ways, the way to accept that there is a democratic will; then either the one who has the strength has to ask himself how this conflict politically resolves - that is why I have spoken to him before about Cameron, not for free - or you have to ask yourself whether you have not started a path that leads to your political failure and, perhaps, to the failure of the same Catalan democratic system. The will to referendum, certainly, I have said, referendum or referendum, of course, because there is a majority in the Catalan Parliament which reflects that Catalan society wants it to. So, do we have to say to the citizens of Catalonia: Even though you - 21st century Europeans, Catalans who are in the Spanish state, leading citizens of the world developed cult and democratic - want to make a referendum, it turns out that the Spanish political parties do not want it? And since they don't want it, you have to swallow. And then we encourage them to reform the Constitution. By the way, easily reformable because, basically, Catalans - fortunately not all of us think the same - always, always, we would always be a demographic minority even if we all thought the same, and, fortunately, I repeat, we do not all think the same. Therefore, you have put us in a cul de sac, in a dead end so I tell you that you can cause pain, right, but you will not be able to put an end to this longing, this illusion, this will of the majority of the Catalan people to decide their future. You decide. Unfortunately, it now has the Socialist Party. By the way, I can't resist telling you that this theory of lesser evil is so dangerous that it can lead you to a huge failure. I remind you that there are always socialists with dignity. I remind you that in 1940, sixty socialists, only sixty, but sixty!, did not give their support to Marshal Petan and the vast majority of socialists, yes. So we applaud and salute the Socialist Members who will say no on Saturday. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u80	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà, I will never be able to accept that in this House, where the laws are passed, as far as representatives of national sovereignty are concerned, there is some Member who intends to move us to the time of the law of the jungle. This House approves the laws and this House represents the majority democratic will of the Spaniards. Therefore, we all have to comply with the law, including you. [[Applauds]] It is not convenient for you to enter along such complex paths as that. Mr Tardà, I am in favour of democratic mandates, how could I not be? But these democratic mandates have to be within the law because what cannot be done is to counter law and democracy because without law, Mr Tardà, we cannot talk about democracy. I'll make one last comment. You have spoken of winning and fighting. In my opinion, today, you have used a very bellicose language. I am not going to talk about winning or fighting, I am just going to talk, as I said at the beginning of my speech this morning, about finding solutions. There's no dead end here because I'm certainly not in any alley, I don't know exactly where you'll be. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u82	14:37 hours, we're going to have an hour recess. Therefore, at 3:37 p.m. the plenary session will be resumed. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. The meeting was resumed at three and forty minutes in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u83	The meeting was resumed. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, candidate, now that we are in the family, we are little, there is more confidence, I will admit that you have made good the maximum'resisting is winning'. A whole year since the dissolution of the previous government, two elections, you have been unable to generate enough consensus around you to secure an absolute majority. You don't even have to have a pacist vein! That is true, on the way - impassive the adamant - it has managed that the other three political forces that follow him in number of seats in this Parliament have been set up in an endless exhibition in front of the gallery, to public opinion engaged in demonstrating who was leading it is not known what, if government alternatives, prizes to the best mediator or to the greatest owner of the street. What a wreck it has caused in opponents without moving a finger! Nor that he had Harry Potter's magic wand and would have thrown a 'wrong spell' at them. They have usually been left without options, either by rejecting the possibility according to nationalist forces, either by seeking surprises or by trying coalitions from every impossible point. Each one has its style, it is true, and it is clear that you prefer to overcome more by siege and starvation than by approach. I remember my meeting with you in the round of talks that you decided to hold with the various parliamentary spokesmen there in early July and I must admit - it is true - that I was not prepared to give you our support considering your four years of absolute majority, but also one expected another disposition, another attitude of someone who knows in minority. You are a teacher in counting your cuetas - I tell you in a good way -: European pressure, deficit, threat of fine... He accumulates them and describes them in such a way that, listen, one even begins to get overwhelmed by compassion for his heavy burden and even for a moment assimilates his problems as if they were his own. He almost made me feel responsible for bringing his problems forward. But, yes, as soon as his interlocutor begins to tell his own problems - because we all have sorrows from Murcia -, hoping naively for the same empathy on his part, he soon realizes that the conversation begins to wander and we move on to generalities. Come on, that - at least to date - the empathizing and putting on each other's skin is not what you best know how to do, Mr. candidate, not even for the sake of interest. We'll see if he's able to do an accelerated course. I will be brief in my speech, Mr President, I do not need thirty minutes to tell you what I have to say, nor the four speeches which we have received from your double attempt at investiture. Nothing has changed since the end of August - when we had this debate - on the contrary, in our eyes you have continued in the same line of action that generated inevitable disagreements that already pointed to you then. In that speech two months ago, he gave him a multitude of reasons that led us to give him our no. On the one hand, his intolerant conception of Spain and towards those citizens who do not feel Spanish - which he reiterated in a reduced version in his speech yesterday - and also demonstrates in his speech that he does not have a project for Catalonia or for Euskadi. On the other hand, I cited the innumerable laws and decrees which, by force of fact, sought to reduce and limit the self-government of the autonomous communities and especially that of Euskadi and Catalonia. I reminded him of his Government's pathological obsession with Ertzaintza, hindering his renewal and participation in international bodies, as well as his role as a judicial police. I mentioned his opposition to infrastructure such as railways or airports being managed from the Basque Country; his interference in the management of health skills; his policy in the educational field, which beyond its content - which we do not share - has plunged into a sea of doubts to the educational community with invalids that would be more worthy of abrogation in the face of the undeniable majority opposition they face. By the way, you in your speech - I think you have been replying to Mr Hernando - have given as a sign of your willingness to approach and agree on the invalids. He said: they will be necessary and compulsory for access to the university but they will not be required to obtain the degree. And everyone has stayed, even some media, as if Mr Rajoy had taken a generous step to accept, while we are going to try to find a pact and a meeting on this. Listen, but it is that one goes to the fifth final disposition of Lomce herself and says it very clearly, the calendar for that to be so, for the revalidates to be necessary to obtain the title, will not happen until the year 2018, course 2017-2018. So all you've done is offer what's already in the law. He didn't offer anything. Is that the way you're going to reach agreements and agreements with the rest of the groups? You have offered nothing, it is exactly the same as the law says, and in the meantime to see if we find an educational pact. Indeed, you know that this issue is going to get you out of opposition, you have to look for a pact and offer something that is already in the law. If we already knew they didn't come into force for that until 2018. The will would have been to say: I offer to repeal them, or not in the case of the university, but you have not offered anything that was not already in the law. Returning to what I said two months ago and which is still valid, I will mention, for example, the disregard for the Historical Memory Act on the part of his Government; his refusal to cooperate in the field of peace and coexistence; his racketeering with the high-speed train, whose budget is never fulfilled. It also reminded him of his policy in the field of social security, which created absolutely unbalanced exemptions and bonuses; a policy which, on the other hand, denies our competences in this area. We criticized his model of economic policy and the foundations on which he intends to build it. By the way, with your speech yesterday, I believe that even more doubts have been raised in the economic sphere. It was quite simple, it left aside all the constraints on the progress of the European economy as a whole and the obstacles to the common policy. The fundamental problem of the Spanish economy, Mr President, is manifested through the high rates of unemployment, inequality and poverty, and is that of its low productivity. Addressing this issue requires promoting demand policies in the areas of infrastructure, innovation and training, and not just implementing European cut-off policies. Yes, we already know that the European mandates must be fulfilled, I will not be the one to say otherwise, but we must also be able to compensate for the effects of these constraints with other policies, with a change in labour reform, for example, aimed at achieving a more productive model with a higher quality of employment, and with, for example, a rise in the minimum wage. By the way - I cannot resist to tell you - in the section on corruption, to which you wanted to make special mention in your speech, you shared blame equally. He said that no one is free and no one has infallibility in this matter. I will tell you, without wishing to extend myself, that in matters of corruption, that is to say of dirt, everything is unacceptable, from the excrement of beetle to the platter of an elephant, but it is clear who is here the elephant and who has to apply with particular interest in this matter. What have you done, Mr. candidate, to generate confidence in us - if you have intended it - since the end of August, since the other speech? I announced to you a series of concerns on our part and positions that you were holding, and what have you done to try to approach positions, if you really sought our votes? He has done nothing or, rather, has continued to complicate the situation, because we asked him for a change of attitude, a redirection of his political strategy in which institutional dialogue prevails over imposition. I will give you some examples referring exclusively to the time since your previous attempt to achieve the investiture until today, examples of the last two months, and you will see how that change of attitude we asked you to do is neither understood nor practiced. Last week my group tabled a non-legislative proposal for its discussion in the Commission for the Promotion of this House on Basque Y. The objective was simple: to draw up once and for all a timetable of budgetary commitments to complete the construction and implementation of the Basque Y; priority axis of transport, according to the European institutions. His response, that of the People's Party, was to vote no, along with Podemos and Bildu, so that the initiative fell. Indeed, PP, Podemos and Bildu. Don't tell me again that the Basque Y will be operational in 2019, knows that it is impossible to meet that deadline, even more so when you refuse to explain you times and commitments, and you still do not accept the plan of the municipalities for entry into the capitals. I'm going on. Last week we had a great opportunity to reach consensus on a text among all political forces on the fifth anniversary of the end of ETA violence. It is true that each of us has its own nuances that he would have wanted to bring, but we made an effort, among very different people, to achieve a minimum agreement that would have been important. The People's Party was unable to enter into that consensus. The left abertzale also put nuances. The People's Party remains in the same position over the past five years, as if the ETA attacks had not ended. And, Mr President, indeed, compared to the overwhelming enthusiasm that you and your party have shown towards the Colombian peace process, your action towards the closure of a problem of violence that affects you directly. I applaud President Santos for his courage and willingness to dialogue and here, for not agreeing on peace and coexistence, he does not even do so with the Basque Government. They have not taken any steps in five years, nor have they responded to Basque institutions. This attitude cannot be prolonged any longer. The Basque society largely does not understand or share it. Lehendakari is willing to assist in the effort and coordinate policies, seize the opportunity. I'll give you another example of infrastructure. The Basque institutions and our parliamentary group, after asking countless questions, have to learn from the press that Vueling will stop operating if they shorten the runway at Hondarribia airport and his Government has given no explanation in this regard. No one knows what's going to happen to the runway or how they're going to guarantee the airport's operation. Another important matter for my group, in which they act without looking, asking, or consulting: we learn, without prior notice, of the temporary closure of the quota of beautiful, decided by your Government after the transfer of 1,200 tons of catch to France, without prior consultation or information to the fleets or to the Basque Government. Another one that demonstrates how sensitised you are with Basque public opinion. At the appearance of the President of the Nuclear Security Council, we learn that Nuclenor has failed to meet the ultimate requirements imposed on him by that body and yet his Government still does not decree the definitive closure of Garoña or assume that there is no interest in reopening it, as it has been more than a year since Nuclenor should have met those requirements and you are mistaken, trying to reopen an obsolete nuclear power plant rejected by all Basque political parties, including your own. Before yesterday, October 25, was the anniversary of the Statute of Gernika. His party celebrated it in Euskadi; Mr Alonso attended the event, but I honestly don't know exactly what he was celebrating, perhaps that same day his Government announced the filing of two more appeals against the Basque self-government. That same day, listen, the day before your speech at this parliamentary seat. In particular, this is the ninth and tenth appeal since you are in office. One of them against the Law on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Human Rights Violations Caused by Proceedings of Illicit Repression between 1978 and 1999, once again hindering the scope of coexistence, as I have pointed out before. And another resource that is absolutely incredible: not content with having resorted to the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth public job offers of the Ertzaintza and, having raised by the Basque Government appeal against the sentence, without waiting for the Supreme to resolve, you ask the execution of the sentence to send to the street 250 agents who are doing their practices. They do not respect the outside law of our police, nor the citizens, nor those persons who have obtained the post. Mr. Montoro knows you very well, it is your ministry over and over again, but you are the political responsible, because this is that you are the valid ones and the king doesn't know - I mean not King Philip but you and your valid ones - this is that you are the valid ones and I don't know, no. Political responsibility will fall to you in some way, as I will then insist. If it really is a question, Mr Rajoy - forgive me the expression - of not touching the noses of the political adversary with whom you intend to agree, can it be more clumsy by choosing that day? How do you want us to interpret this unnecessary procedural hazing in the case of the Ertzaintza OPEs? The direct responsibility is indeed Mr Montoro, but you are, too, Mr Rajoy; if you do not find out, you are responsible for desidia and, if you find out, for action. I have long heard that it was going to be resolved, Mr Montoro, and we are still doing so, with an appeal for the execution of the judgment that is being appealed. A political will to agree enormously. As long as they don't change the chip, it's gonna hurt! Mr President, in this case, as in the others I have mentioned, good words are useless if they are not accompanied by gestures, and there are a few Spanish sayings that reflect this idea well. Besides, you like choruses. For example, he who says, "If you love me, John, your works will tell me." They say that I have allowed myself to customize for the occasion, adapting it in the following way: If you love me, Mariano, it gives less wood and more grain. [[Laughter]] But it's more than likely that you don't consciously seek our vows - you don't seek them - it's more, after your speech I'm convinced of it. You want to generate majorities - you said it expressly - with the constitutionalist parties, and it is in your right, of course, although let me make a point. If you want to change the Spanish Constitution and appeal only to the big Spanish parties, or if, as Mr Rivera said, the national parties will finally be able to make the big changes that the state needs without the nationalists, they have it pretty raw. Do whatever you want, but without the participation of Basque and Catalan nationalists any attempt at a solution will be void in practice. If you want formulas for a minimally lasting solution, I remind you of the ingredients - and you can talk about everything -: national recognition, bilaterality and neutral arbitrator. In any case, if by any chance the appeal that yesterday surreptitiously - today explicitly - made to the Socialist Party's responsibility for the day-to-day support of governability fails, I would really like to make things clear to you in case you intend to look at another bench as if nothing happened. And let me use Miguel de Unamuno to help you interpret our intervention in its precise terms. Don Miguel said in an article entitled Basque Soul: My people take the world no more than in spectacle, but take it seriously. It will be about to fall into any collective ailment, less aestheticism. So far, the quote from the Bilbao thinker. It does not make the mistake of believing that the Basque Nationalist Party is exercising aestheticism in its discourse and positioning. We are serious; we neither walk with rodeos nor use subterfuges. The Basque Nationalist Party has laxly won the elections to the Basque Parliament, demonstrating that Basque society continues to trust us. For decades it has been so, and it's no coincidence. This is explained by the fact that the Basque Nationalist Party has always spoken clearly to society and has always done what it says it will do. This is our position. If you want our help, if you want cooperation, the relationship towards Basque autonomy and its institutions must be different, starting with the non-judicialization of politics. Today, and as long as there is no radical change in his Government's willingness to understand, as we have already announced before and after the Basque elections on 25 September - we have said so very clearly and you see that they were insisting on us - even if some augur with collection predicted that it would not be so, we will vote no for his candidacy and his policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this stage I do not need to make an analysis of what my position and my way of acting has been since 20 December, because I have explained it enough. It's not about moving, not moving and doing one thing or doing the other. I have suggested that what I thought was most reasonable was a coalition and, if not, a parliamentary pact and, if not, the situation that is going to happen, if it does not mean any change, next Saturday. That was my approach. And you say: Why did this approach come out? Because a party did one thing, changed its mind, made a decision or something? It came out, Mr Esteban, because it was most reasonable, in view of the results that took place on 20 December and, above all, in view of the results that took place on 26 June. If those election results had not occurred, even if I had done exactly the same as I did, which you think is nothing, the result would have been different. In the end, reality is often imposed and common sense is also imposed, and this is what has happened here. From now on, there is a different situation, a new political stage, as has been said here this morning, in which we must all manage, I first, with the greatest possible intelligence and generosity. That's what this is about. It is true that you and I had a conversation before the June 26 elections and before there was a debate on the investiture. You will understand that I did not have that conversation to get the brilliant result I achieved after talking to you. I think I tried, but you will also agree with me that, however brilliant, skillful and smart I was, the result that was going to happen was going to be exactly what happened. I mean, in both cases, what everyone knew was going to happen: in the first case, because it was the most reasonable and, in the second case, because you didn't want to, it's not exactly the same. But don't worry, because I will continue to persevere for the future. Nothing's changed since August 30th. You have explained here a number of things, the bad things I do, but some positive things have also done this government and some positive things have also done in relation to the Basque Country. I mean, you can deny support for my investiture, and I understand that, but it's hard to deny reality. To the extent possible, we have responded to and responded to the concerns and needs that you have raised; not all of them, but we have not all of them from any political group, not all of them from the People's Parliamentary Group, because it is clear that concerns, needs and demands are always far greater than any Government can do. The truth is that a positive economic policy has been made for Spain and has also been positive for the Basque Country. I cannot deny that the economic growth that existed in 2011 in the Basque Country is not the same as it is now. I know that you can say that this is because of the decisions taken by the Basque Government or simply the course of time or the cycle, but I say no; if we had made another economic policy, we would probably be in a different situation, and the same is true of job creation. You also criticise the investment effort we have made in the Basque Country. Could we have done more? Absolutely. But the investment of the Development Group in the Basque Country adds up to 2 billion euros, which is not a smaller figure if we add up to those of this year's budget. And as for the Basque Y, I'd like to have finished it by now, see what I tell you. We still have, in a country with a high-speed network as they have few countries in the world, some challenges to bring to a successful conclusion, and certainly some of the most important, if not the most important, is the issue of high-speed in the Basque Country. But I must remember that by the end of 2011 more than 75% of the investment, as you know, was still to be executed. Since 2012 we have provided this infrastructure, between General State Budgets, Adif and the quota, with more than 2.3 billion euros. This year 2016 is 290 million euros and what my services tell me, those of the Ministry of Development, is that the Basque Y will be completed in 2019. If you question it, let's work together to achieve that goal, which will always be better than one later. We are working on high-speed access to Basque cities. The Plan for the improvement of the quality of the proximity provides for actions for the nucleus of proximity to San Sebastián and Bilbao. I would like to remind you that we have supported industrial investment in the Basque Country within the framework of public policy to reindustrialise and strengthen industrial competitiveness, and loans for EUR 178 million have been granted for 80 industrial projects. The efforts with the naval sector, which the Basque Country cares about as well as Galicia and other parts of Spain, have been positive and we have managed to reactivate the recruitment using the new tax lease system. The same has happened with the aviation sector, which has major loans from Minetur. And in fisheries policy the Government has secured more funds than in the previous period for our fleet and industry, there are more fishing quotas, we have extended the agreements with the European Union to other countries and we will resolve, with the agreement of the Autonomous Communities, the problem of the beautiful to which you referred in your intervention. It is also important that we talk about the planning of the 2015-2020 electric power transmission network. More than EUR 200 million will be invested in the Basque Country and the connection with France will be intensified. I believe that we have also made an effort in the tax and tax system, as provided for in our Constitution, changes have been made in the economic concert and in the future we will have to work on the Basque quota. Ladies and gentlemen, I maintain my spirit of cooperation, I have always had it. What happens is that it gives the feeling that you come here to point out only the things that you do not like - which may have your logic, without any doubt - but I have an obligation to inform the House of the positive decisions that have been taken for the Basque Country over this time, which was undoubtedly a time, from the budgetary point of view, certainly complex and certainly difficult. You have also made reference to the economic policy that we have pursued in these four years, and in a very special way you have mentioned the rate of unemployment, inequality and poverty, and you are right. But I want to tell you, in the same way that I say you're right, that we're improving on inequality rates, that we're improving on poverty rates, and that, as the EPA believes this morning, unemployment is shrinking in our country and also in the Basque Country. And why? Because the fundamental origin of inequality, poverty and the problems we have had in the budget headings devoted to social policies lies in the absence of employment, which is what I have referred to so many times in this House, including today. That is why we have said that employment is the main objective; it is because people want to work and rightly, and it is because the person who works is the one who then sustains social policies and thus manages to reduce inequality and poverty. You have spoken in favour of budgetary stability, and I agree with and welcome it. And he says that more needs to be done, we need to do it, structural reforms, but we should recognize one thing that I cannot talk about too much because it is also not very good for Spain, which is that the objective of budgetary stability for this year was 2.8 and we have managed to turn it into 4.6. That has enabled us, among other things, to lower taxes and also to have reasonable public spending, and that also serves to generate economic growth and employment. I am not a budget stability fan, nor do I intend to reduce the public deficit in a few days. I think things should be done in time. We have spoken to the European Commission, our requests have been met because they were reasonable and that, I insist, has been very useful so that this year 2016 we can say in Spain that economic growth is going to be 3, 3, 1 or 3, 2 - it is the same -, of course far above what is happening in the European Union. Your Honor, you have referred - I do not know the details of each and every one of the issues that you raised to me, although it was my obligation to know you - to a proposal I do not know whether or not to law on Basque Y, and you have also referred to a text on the end of violence. I only ask one thing about the end of violence, Mr. Esteban: that ETA dissolve. It is reasonable for a democratic Parliament to make that request, because ETA is a terrorist organization, everyone knows it. Don't you think it's a sensible thing to say: you, who are a terrorist organization and say that it's not going to dissolve, dissolve? What do you want? Let a democratic Parliament like ours tell you: does it not dissolve? Or don't tell him anything? I think it is always a good thing to ask him for something that is very reasonable and that is certainly very reasonable. I would also have liked, as when he referred to other matters to which I referred a moment ago, that in his speech he would have made, even if it were a brief reference, some positive things that have occurred over these last few dates. For example, the decision taken by this Parliament on Bilbao Ría 2000. That is positive and, as it is, you do not make any reference to it. Man, give me some to play with, too. Or the battle we've had to wage in relation to steel. I spoke to the Lehendakari and defended his position at the last European Council in Brussels, and I did so for two reasons: one because I thought he was right, and the other because I absolutely agreed. We have defended free trade, but we have also advocated that free trade is fair, and what is happening with steel in some important country in the global context is very damaging to many companies in the Basque Country and also in Catalonia. Therefore, for a reason of justice, in addition to national interest, it must be defended. I think what happened there was positive. We want to make free trade agreements, it is good for everyone, but we want free trade to be fair and there are no people who - I'm sorry for the use of the expression - are in a better position than others when it comes to competing in the markets. Indeed, it is to be welcomed today that the Walloon Parliament - and it is already graceful - has come to its senses and that we in the European Union can sign a free trade agreement with Canada. More wood and more grain. All I've ever thought about is if you want grain, Aitor, I'll leave you my tractor. [[Laughter]] It's the only thing I can think of at this hour of the afternoon. [[Applauds]] It's the difference between asking and giving you and the difference with curing it, which is the tractor. I, in any case, will use the tractor. I'm going to ask you things, but I'm going to work on it too, to use the tractor. I think you should, too. I know perfectly well, as you can imagine, what the Basque Nationalist Party is. We had a parliamentary coalition, by the way, in a government in which I participated in 1996... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u87	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u88	Then I was talking to Vice-Lehendakari Ibarretxe, Mr Balza, who was then responsible for the Interior, and the one who is in charge now, and don't have the slightest doubt that we did positive, sensible and reasonable things. But you have to understand one thing that is important. Spain is a country with a level of decentralization as it does not exist in the world, and we are in a process that began in 1978, 1979 and 1980, thirty years ago. The Basque Country today has a level of autonomy as it has never had, and when I say it is never - that is an objective fact, it is not a judgment of value - and it has a level of administrative, political and tax autonomy as it does not exist anywhere in the world, unless I know it. Everything is probably better, but we also need to see where we're going from. In any case, I will put on my side whatever it takes for you to become involved in the governance of our country. I do not intend to discuss it here, because I think it makes no sense, if it is good or if it ceases to be so that we raise or cease to bring appeals before the Constitutional Court, but I have to say that the Basque Government has questioned more state rules than those which the State has questioned with regard to the Basque Government. According to the data my services have provided me, thirty-four times they have questioned state rules; we have done so on seventeen. It is true that on many occasions, both when you did it and when we did it, we have already reached an agreement. We must therefore acknowledge or affirm, simply because it is true, that although there have been discrepancies in some issues, there have also been important agreements in others, of collaboration or of management orders. I can assure you that discussion of rules adopted by the Autonomous Communities or by the communities approved by the General Courts has not happened only with the Basque Government or with the Catalan Government; it has also occurred to me with the Galician Government, with the Andalusian Government, with the Canarian Government and with everyone. We therefore need to make more efforts, because this is not about finding a solution to solve the problem momentarily. We will have to make more efforts and try to put - you too - on our side all that is useful to work a little more and better for our country and so that you can do things more reasonably. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u89	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. Were Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Candidate, in terms of the consonant rhymes I still have a little advantage for you, although I must admit that you have not had much time to prepare them. [[Laughter]] You said: say the positive as well. Well, I'm going to say the positive, but I'm going to say it in all colors. It says: look at you, Bilbao Ría 2000. The other day you are presenting an amendment, it is accepted, etc. Of course, what you haven't said is that you had a problem generated with all your companies, with ADIF, etc. Who's the one who's asking for all this? Sepes is asking the Mayor of Bilbao. He says: help me get a solution, because the government doesn't give it to me. It might have occurred to you to put that forecast for public enterprises within the law and did not, it had to be by an amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party. That's right, they took advantage of it to say: and now, apart from Bilbao, the rest of the state enterprises. It seems very good to me, but you should have put the solution, not us through an amendment. So what I want to say is that it was good for you. Second of all, high-speed train. I always hear you talk about many figures, but what happens here is that time is passing and there is no progress. In their papers - not in ours -, execution in terms of the high speed train last year, do you know what the execution was? 25% of the budgeted. It'll look like you're tall. [[Pause]] Yeah? Awesome. Then I'm sure we won't agree. This project, which is the main axis, qualified as such by the European Union, had to have absolute priority and has been languishing for years and years. By the way, how did it start? It began to happen because the Basque Nationalist Party demanded it - through budget support, etc. - from the Socialist Party, and there the project began; otherwise, we would still be standing still. To you the high speed by the Atlantic Corridor may interest you in some corner, but the Atlantic Corridor and the Axis have not mattered anything at all. And don't tell me about the quota, because with the quota we've been unsolved for ten years. So, that's pointed, but pointed, don't tell me you're paying for it. One of the issues that should be taken very seriously to resolve would be the quota and make a new quota law, and for that it needs an agreement with the Basque Government. I didn't see them do that. I didn't mean to do that. That's all right, we can't take nine years to figure it out. Are you still insisting on 2019? Well, set time limits, but say, this is going to be done like this and like this. Set deadlines, forecasts, budgets. Look, I admit the year 2020; I wish, but I don't believe it either. What else would I like? He says to me: All these issues that you have raised to me I do not know them. I can understand that you don't know everyone, but when there's sensitivity, that's passed on to the team: watch out for these things. But neither sensitivity nor anything; absolutely, nothing at all. Agreements with the Basque Government have also been hammered, if any. First they threaten with resources, and he says that in some laws we have agreed on interpretation, but that can't be day by day. Don't threaten the appeal; talk, try to reach an agreement. The Economic Concert should be transferred to the political concert, because otherwise, it is absolutely impossible to move forward. On the subject of coexistence, he says that ETA dissolves. All right, of course, I also want ETA to dissolve, but you should ask yourself: Are you doing something to help that goal? And you will say to me: I do not have to do anything; you have to dissolve. A man who admires both the processes of peace, as that of Colombia, and who gives the approval to things that they have had to do, that here would give them as absolutely unacceptable - I can understand it and I can even support him on some points that would not be acceptable here - and that here he is not willing, not even on an issue on which it is already a matter of liquidation, I say no more to change the prison policy, but to make a different prison policy and that they continue to treat the people of the Nanclares way as to the rest, that they do not realize the importance that it has for the arsenals to be closed and for ETA to dissolve... I have now come to the head another saying, you know it: The enemy who flees, silver bridge. Put on a silver bridge, or what do you want? That you stay on the shore and we're still here talking about it over and over again? Put silver bridge and do not create conflict in Basque society. That's what Basque society wants. You say you're funny about Wallonia. Well, if it's funny about Wallonia with Canada, then how far is it from understanding Catalonia and Euskadi? Wallonia is a nation within Belgium and the flamencos another, and they have their competences and have an equality. There are others that we also aspire to be considered as nations. It seems to us that Wallonia has to be reasonable, but it's not funny about Wallonia, it seems to us something that can happen. It tells us that we have a high level of autonomy. Yes, but, for example, we can't make OPE for Ertzaintza. Why? Because you forbid us. We have great autonomy but we cannot make OPE for Ertzaintza or pay salaries to officials as we want. That of the great autonomy you are already in charge of matifying it even in the smallest details. I want to spend the time I have left on something that has not entered with me, but with the rest of the people, with Mr Hernando and with Mr Tardà. You have insisted a lot - I understand your approach - on the following: It is that the law must comply with it, what authority we would have if we did not. Answer yourself, I was telling Mr. Tardà now. Who authorizes politicians to violate the laws? So who authorizes the Spanish Government to allow the competence of prisons, which is in the Statute of Autonomy and which you have never been able to deny legally here - it has simply said no because it does not please me - not to be transferred? Who has allowed you for a long time not to transfer competences from the Autonomy Statute, such as active employment policies, etc., and have to change a competition here through a vote? It is over; if we have to comply with the law, if we all have to comply with the law, you comply with the law: the management of the economic regime of Social Security, the competence of prisons and the other powers without transferring from the Statute of Autonomy. It is an organic law, it is also part of the legal system, Mr President. Who authorizes you not to fulfill it? Mr. Tardà probably didn't have a list in hand that I have here. You also asked what might be thought if we failed to comply with the Constitutional Court's rulings. Well, I'll tell you a few things the Spanish government doesn't comply with. For example, I will quote a very old one from the 1980s. Unemployment accounts paid by workers are not part of Social Security and, if implementing powers are available in employment, they would have the competence to manage them. That's what you guys, no case. Through other laws and practice they have covered it up. For example, in 2013 and 2014, the Constitutional Court reminded the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment that it was invading powers by distributing aid for pollution and climate change programmes. The Constitutional Court also tells the Ministry of Health to return the power to self-government to grant grants for cooperation and social volunteering programmes in exchange for 0.7 per cent of the IRPF. You are repeating it Republican Left and the Catalan Democratic Party continuously and here you continue to do the same; neither the Constitutional Court's judgment nor anything. Who is the one who fulfills and who is the one who fails? Do not do what you can, who has the strength, who can impose things, that is, you. You are the ones who fail and the others are the ones we usually do. [[Applauds]] I'm sorry to have to light this up, but so much law enforcement... I can agree that the law must be respected, but everyone. He said two sentences that I absolutely agree with. First, he has said that the law is not a corset to impose rights. You are absolutely right, but the law has to adapt to what society demands and lives. Secondly, he said: Lord Hernando, no one must be demonized. You're absolutely right, but apparently you have to demonize when some declare independenceists. They cannot be spoken of, they cannot be agreed, they are not reliable people and, moreover, they do not have a representation, like everyone else, in this House. No, Mr. President, no one must be demonized. Will for the agreement, yes, but when you change your attitude and are ready for dialogue and not for imposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u91	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u92	Thank you, Madam President. I don't think it's that complicated to understand yourself either, Mr. Esteban. What I liked most about your second intervention is the last sentence: Will for the agreement, yes. He then said that as soon as we change our attitude or are ready for dialogue. Your Honor, I will refer - I have not done so in my previous speech because you have touched on many of the issues in yours - to some of the things that you have done and that I think can be used to prove that one who claims is not always right and, moreover, can be used to prove that, if spoken of, some problems can be solved. The public employment offered by the Basque Government is, as you know, incompatible with the Budgets Act. There has been recourse and justice has given the State the right; that is, no appeal has been made simply because some official in the Ministry of Public Administration has decided on his own and risk that things were wrong. It was a subject, at least, something more than dubious and, in fact, in the end, justice has given reason to the State. That said, as we did in 2014, we offered to negotiate with the Basque Government. I do not know why the Basque Government did not want to do so. In 2014 it worked and could work again. We are therefore prepared to negotiate on that matter to which you have referred. As regards San Sebastián airport, there is a certification required by the European Union in January 2016. The size of the Hondarribia runway is reduced and to expand it, the Basque Government and the Municipality of Hondarribia must authorize the declaration of environmental impact; otherwise, it cannot be made. What happened to Vueling? You will understand the interest that the Government of Spain may have in Vueling not being able to fly to the city of Hondarribia. As bad as it was the relationship between you and us, which is not the case, I wouldn't think of giving anyone the instruction, and less a private company, that a Vueling plane didn't go to the city hall of Hondarribia. What we are now negotiating with Vueling to comply with European Union regulations is for the company to set up a smaller plane, but I think the important thing is that the Basque Government and the city council authorise the declaration of environmental impact. That would absolutely unblock the matter and avoid us all from many problems. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no lack of political will or sufficient resources to carry out the works of the high-speed train; there are technical problems, which are not easy, in the knot of Vergara, as you know very well. You know that both road and rail infrastructure are easier to carry out - because geography is what it is - in the southern part of Spain than in the northern part - you know that I am Galician -. One of the most expensive highways that have been made in our country has been Bilbao-Behobia and the other has been the A-6, which has to cross very important ports, such as Manzanal or Piedraphyta do Cebreiro, but there is no lack of political will nor resources to carry out the high speed. I insist, if we work together, it is something we can overcome in 2019. Mr President, I have said nothing about Wallonia to allow you to say, if it is right with my intervention, that I have an interpretation - I do not know how to describe it - of what the Basque Country or Catalonia is; what I am saying is that I am in favour of free trade agreements and I would like competition to have it from the European Union, because it is not a reasonable way to operate that one of twenty-eight - or in the case of Belgium two and I do not know whether Brussels - can veto an agreement of this importance. If the agreement is free trade with a dry stick - and I'm sorry for the expression - the competition is with the Commission and, therefore, the states would not have the right to veto, but we did not want to make free trade agreements stricto senu, but rather introduce - since in Europe 25% of world trade is produced - environmental, labour, etc. standards that force others to compete on equal terms and to make a world fairer. Fortunately, the Wallonia issue has been settled and we have nothing more to talk about. In short, Mr Esteban, at this stage that we are expected to start soon, we have an obligation to govern. We will try to reach an understanding with all the political forces who want to do so. We have our limits, and I ask you to understand, as I can perfectly understand the limits that you have, but if we all act intelligently and have good hands, we are faced with an opportunity. At least that's how I see it, among other things because I don't have another one left. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u93	Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u94	Briefly, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, will you agree, but don't take the radish by the leaves. Read the whole speech, today's and two months ago. This is not about changing chromes, it is not about me giving you a competition that I already had to have fulfilled and in return we have a vote. Not to mention, that time is over; either there is a change of attitude towards relations with Basque institutions and what Basque institutions can agree on or there is nothing to do. He wanted to tell me about the Ertzaintza OPE. If I know very well, of course, I know. The serious thing is that, the serious thing is that in a matter and a competence of foral content, of foral basis, which has its own place - the Security Board - they intend to skip that foral content and, through the law of state budgets, limit us in our competences that the only thing they intend to do is to maintain the agreement of the Security Board, to maintain the number of troops. He says he doesn't know what happened in 2014, which the government wanted to negotiate. Of course he negotiated, I'll tell him what happened. That was the previous one, which was also appealed, the 24th. And you know how it worked out? In the Senate, in an agreement with my group. What's not worth it is putting Chinese on the road and then saying: and now, in return, if you want, I'll take the Chinese off you. It is that these Chinese did not have to put them; those little stones that have put me on the road to hurt me while walking would not have to have put them if they respected the foral fact, the foral concept of Ertzaintza itself and the relationship in that sense through the first additional provision that the Basque Autonomous Community has, and I say the same in the case of Navarra. So it's an abuse of law, and the courts usually get these things of forality pretty slippery. How, the state, state budgets? That's it, it's got to be done, and that's it. But what have you done with that? What are you doing? To undermine the very idea of forality. [[Mr. Montoro Romero makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr. Montoro. In the forality it is very important that the two parties agree. You are one, but when the other part feels that it is undermining its right is that there is a problem and therefore would do well to attend to it, because if not that basis of the foral relationship - I was going to say - goes to hell. And it's not the first time, but this Ertzaintza case is paradigmatic. They try to undermine matters that are of foral content and that have to have other places where they can be discussed and agreed through state regulations. This about putting little stones on the road so that then it looks like a favor that takes away our little stones in exchange for votes, it's not going to work either. That is why I say to you, Mr President, please read the two speeches carefully. Will you remember? Yeah, but I should start a new time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u95	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u96	I'll be speaking soon. I welcome the statement I have just heard here that this is not about changing chromes. I'm celebrating it, but it never seemed like this was a chrome change. I guess you're interested in defending the general interest because you're interested in us all doing well. You are an important parliamentary group in this House for many years now, fulfilling your role and defending what is the general interest in your opinion. I, the only thing I ask in a circumstance of these characteristics - as I would if I were in a different position - is that, if you have it for good, show your willingness to negotiate, to talk and to understand. I would do it under any circumstances and now I do it much more intensely for reasons that none of you miss out on. Your Honor, the truth is that the Ertzaintza has been arranged, that's the truth, I didn't know if in Congress or in the Senate; now I know it's in the Senate because you just said it in this House. I do not know if there is anyone who has put Chinese on the road but in any case I will make sure that no one puts them on the road again; frankly, I do not see what anyone needs, nor who is who puts Chinese to end up fixing the problem if there is no substantial change that, I say, I do not know right now. What I want to make clear is that I am in favour of forality, I have always supported the concert and the quota, you collect and also you have full regulatory capacity in all taxes - I don't know if there will be any, customs..., I don't know - but in all taxes you have full regulatory capacity and all taxes are collected. I believe it is an important special regime and it has always counted and will count in the future, whatever happens, with my support, just as I have supported the convention in the case of Navarre or the Economic and Fiscal Regime in the case of the Canary Islands. Your Honor, as I said at the beginning of the previous speech - the second one I have made - I welcome the fact that there is a provision for the agreement on your part and I will try to gain your confidence, even if it is only partially. I'll try to step up so I can get to the whole goal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u97	Thank you very much. We begin with the interventions of the formations integrated in the Joint Parliamentary Group. First of all, Mr. Homs Molist has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u98	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen and members of the Government in office. Mr Rajoy, listening to you now talking about special regimes, different, various and pintos - I say with all due respect - it is obvious that we are all the same. I leave it simply pointed out because at the end of his speech he showed how much diversity there is in Spain, but how little you have the ability to understand what we have sometimes claimed in Catalonia. I take the floor to set the position of the Catalan European Democratic Party on the proposal for an investiture which Mr Mariano Rajoy has been entrusted with. After what has happened in recent months, particularly in recent weeks, and after the speech you made yesterday, Mr Rajoy, I can only congratulate you. More than a statesman gives me the feeling - I say it sportingly - that he seems like a magician. Without any relevant proposal and only with the threat of a third election and what you call the Catalan challenge, you have achieved what seemed impossible: that the PSOE vote in exchange for nothing. His approach of not knowing yesterday ceases to be disturbing, very disturbing. You face a legislature in which you are not going to have a stable or lasting or strong government, as you said was necessary. The only thing that explains his investiture is the demerits of others. In the election campaign and in the polls it was very clear and the result was also: you should not follow, neither you nor the People's Party. We have all said that, also and vehemently, those who will now vote for it either as an active or as a passive vote. Without proposing anything substantive in my way of seeing, in the midst of judicial processes of corruption everywhere, using the powers of the state to act against political opponents, refusing to manage politically the most relevant issues that are on the table, from Catalonia to the European situation going through the economic crisis, that in these conditions you become president again is in our way of seeing a bad symptom of how the Spanish policy and democratic system works. I do not say that you are the only culprit, nor do I dispute what you like to remember, that you were first in the elections, but it is an objective fact that, according to the ballot boxes and the voted programmes, Mr Rajoy, you should not be president and yet you will be; it seems to be, however, you will be. The question now is at what price and I have the impression that the price will be high for the whole of Spain, which I am concerned about, although you may not think so, and in particular for Catalonia. Going against the democratically expressed will in the ballot boxes, even if their choice is legal and legitimate - I am not going to discuss it -, it never comes out for free. I tell you that you are not the only one responsible for this situation, although it would be naive to ignore the power that you have accumulated these years and that I am sure you have not been neutral in explaining the PSOE's change of attitude. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, please do not hang the dead from others. You had the key and in the end you used it to keep the People's Party and Mariano Rajoy as president. You have put, out of selfish interest in my view, the counter to zero in the face of the regressive policies that you denounced from the People's Party. Say what you want but your vote legitimizes the People's Party and, worst of all, legitimizes its policies. This tacit agreement which is reflected in all this debate of investiture expels all those who do not think like all of you, at least all those who, according to your opinion, Mr Rajoy, we are out of line that you drew yesterday and that separates constitutionalists from non-constitutionalists, good from bad, decent from indecent, necessary from non-constructuralists. You are trying to keep alive a framework that in Spain is breaking and that in Catalonia is already clearly a minority. They may ignore it or disregard it, but this is the time when the vast majority of Catalan Members are going to be farther away than ever before than they suppose, from what this investiture represents. And I'm not just talking about arithmetic. The main argument of the Socialist Party of Catalonia explains everything, they ask for tolerance from the PSOE in order to be able to attend - they say - to the special circumstances that run in Catalonia. Very significant. Make no mistake, you, you and you are today the engine of Catalan disconnection. As an independentist I am, I would sincerely thank you if it were not for the fact that a separation without dialogue and trauma is always more costly for both sides. It will not be because they have not been warned many times, Montilla, Mas, Duran, Carod-Rovira and so many people, and in the end we come to the conclusion that if we do not think like you, we are accused of breaking the relationship unilaterally. No, it is you who break, who destroy bridges, despise and lie, Mr. Rajoy. They lied when they told Ibarretxe that without violence everything could be talked about. Lie! They lied when they collected signatures against the statue, and they lied a lot, and they have lied every time the word dialogue has been put in their mouths. Yesterday you said something, Mr Rajoy, that sounded, in my view, provocative. He said that in these years he had always been willing to dialogue with the Generalitat. Has this been like this? [[A Member of Parliament: Yes!]] I could give you a lot of examples, but I'll give you a flashy one. What did he reply more than two years ago to the then President of the Generalitat when he came to see him and put on the table a document with twenty-three proposals affecting Catalonia? What did he answer? Nothing. We're still waiting. And in that document, look at you, there was neither independence nor the referendum, there was not even a contract of accession to anything, it was simply a matter of trying to resolve matters that many of them are covered by existing laws or that respond to rulings of the Constitutional Court, as the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party reminded you now. And then you tell us about the law and the sentences as inescapable references? Do you really say that or do you comply with the laws and sentences of convenience? Mr Rajoy, the Catalan process is taking place as is evident and there is no turning back on our way of looking. You consider it literally a challenge and you respond with threats and surely with quarrels. They can disable some of us, but how many? One, two, three, fifty, five hundred? And? When you have disabled us all, what will you do? You and your Government, Mr Rajoy, have already been silenced in this regard. They will put resources back and forth, but we have taken the action to that effect and I say it to you sincerely. There will come a time when your strategy will enter the point of futility, if you have not already done so at this time, as when you put so much force on a thread that breaks inside and no longer has any effect. I say this without acridity and with humility, it has in its hands either to maintain the strategy of confrontation or to open the dialogue. President Puigdemont fixed his position here in Madrid a few weeks ago ready to discuss the referendum, which is the only democratic way out that we all have to deal with the Catalan issue, let us think what we think. The referendum is democracy, Mr Rajoy, and democracy is not a contract of accession - in this I am surprised, I tell you sincerely - but the most civilized way of resolving differences. Puigdemont said he was willing to talk about the referendum, its content, the calendar, the rules for its validation, the criteria for reading the result, etc. More propository can't be. And what do you propose? Do you propose anything to Catalonia? It is your responsibility, Mr Rajoy, to take things on a path of dialogue or confrontation. And if you want to excuse yourself in an interested interpretation of the law by giving up doing politics, which is what you have done all these years, giving up doing politics, you take on the consequences yourself. Look, when you came from president to Moncloa, in Catalonia the consensus was about something called a tax pact. Five years later, the consensus in Catalonia is in the right to decide, the referendum, and with a majority in the Parliament of Catalonia that also bets and works to achieve Catalonia's independence. The success of the Catalan process is only subject to the democratic decision of the people of Catalonia, as it cannot otherwise be in the 21st century and in the European context. By the way, whatever the decision of the people of Catalonia we will always abide by it. Are you in a position to say the same thing or only attend to the ballot box when the result is favorable to you? Today he has given a recital, once again, about what the Spanish voted on. Well, in Catalonia you will only have the support of 11 Members out of 47; a minority of Members who contrast - if you do not see the differences is that you do not want to see them - with the majority you will get in this House. In Catalonia you are residual. You always ask for self-criticism from others for election results. He did it today, too, this morning. Will you ever give any thought to the support your party has in Catalonia? I insist, are you willing to accept what the Catalans vote or will do as in the process of the statute that despised what the people of Catalonia voted referendum? I conclude my speech with the will to make clear also what our attitude will be as long as we are in this House. I think at this point it is good to call things by their name and with full transparency. Every day we are here, we will defend our programme and our electoral commitments, as well as everything that concerns - it could not be otherwise - the Catalan institutions. In short, I think it is necessary to leave it at this meeting. I'm done, Madam President. Our commitment is, first and foremost, to defending the productive economy that generates wealth and employment, small and medium-sized enterprises, workers, self-employed and entrepreneurs. Secondly, our commitment to education and training, which are essential for successfully overcoming the challenge of global competition and ensuring social cohesion. Thirdly, our commitment to infrastructure investments, as is the case with the Mediterranean corridor and the railway services near Catalonia, which have been so badly treated for a long time. Fourthly, our commitment to the environment, the fight against climate change and a new energy model, which must be fundamental parts of robust and sustainable economic growth. Fifthly, our commitment to the sustainability and sufficiency of pensions, health systems and dependency, as well as to the fight against poverty. Sixthly, our commitment to a birth policy with genuine support for families. Seventhly, our commitment to culture and cultural creators and to the world of sport. Please comply with the commitments to Tarragona and the Mediterranean Games. Eighthly, our commitment to the duty to receive refugees, which Spain has ignored. Ninthly, our commitment to democracy and justice, which the absolute majority of you have degraded so much and so intensely. And, tenthly, our commitment to the European project, which undoubtedly needs a new impetus to reconnect the idea of Europe with the interests and aspirations of Europeans. It's all over, Madam President. I insist on this decalogue that will inspire our action in this House in the face of every proposal that comes up. This is going to be our attitude. I don't know how long we're gonna be part of the courts, but while we're at it, we're gonna go out and not stay on the bench. Obviously, the project and the idea that we are defending is very far away, and we could even say in what points, antagonistic, of the agreement that you and the Citizens Party have signed, which is more reason to vote not for your investiture, Mr Rajoy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u99	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u101	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u102	How did we get here? How did we get here? How have we been able to re-edit The day of the marmot almost five years later? First of all, on behalf of Compromises, I have a moral obligation to apologize to many millions of citizens. I'm sorry that after 300 days we have as a presidential candidate the same person who, in my opinion, so much law against so many people. Sorry because the forces that represented the change were not able to agree to send Mr Rajoy and the People's Party to the opposition. Apologies for all the broken dreams, all the illusions lost, for the opportunity we're letting go. The Member of the European Parliament and the Members of the Com mission are sincerely trying to do so. We did what we could or what we knew. Maybe we could have done more; I don't know. In the conscience of each deputy, in the conscience of each party, it will remain their part of guilt because today we are in the investiture, now yes, already definitive, of Mr Rajoy. The French have an expression that has spread, creased, for when someone does something right. I'll use it three times today. I want to make three hats, one for each of the members of the tripartite that on Saturday will again make Mr Rajoy president. The first chapó is for Citizens, and especially for Mr. Rivera. It is an ironic stone to Mr Rivera for consistency and for his principles. July 12, 2016: We will not support any government of Mr Rajoy. June 17, 2016: I will speak with the PP, but not with whom he paid for Bárcenas. And also: To vote for Rajoy today - or Saturday - is to block the country; on the contrary, we present ourselves as a lever of change. That's quite a gear shift. Wow! Hey, New Year's Eve! Mr Rajoy has been an autonomous Member since 1981 and has never left the bus. If he was deputy secretary of the PP in 1990 - yes, right! - when those things happened that happened a long time ago and that no one remembers anymore, but that are now being judged. If he was secretary general of the PP in 2003 and president in 2004 - yes, right!-, when the imputed treasurers of the PP were Mr. Lapuerta and Mr. Bárcenas. Remember, Mr. Rivera? He said: We will not support any government of Mr Rajoy. No, they're just going to amnesty their corruption. There's a song from Allegedly Involved that said: how we've changed. How we've changed, Mr. Rivera. Or perhaps not; perhaps you were born to support the PP and today inexorably fulfill your destiny. The second chapó is for the Socialist Party, and this one no longer with irony but with sadness, with disappointment: he chapó the PSOE for how badly he has managed it. How we've changed. What happened to them? Their fear of change, their conformism, their lashes on the boards of directors, their sacred cows brutished by money, the fear of some to lose their status quo and the excessive ambition of others have led them to this infamous mousetrap, to this ignominious decision that will accompany them forever. And I will no longer extend because the hemerotecas will accompany you for a long time to remind you of the infamous day on which you lost your socialist soul. The third chapon is addressed to you, Mr. Rajoy, and this one is already irony and nothing; it is a true chapon. I'll take my hat off. I would even tell you what the Great Wyoming says when he talks about his examination Mr. Barcenas; I would say it, but I won't say it. You could even be the hero of a movie, the impassable Galician. Without moving a muscle, without doing anything at all, you are at the door of being president again, with the PSOE in a comatose state, giving him the investiture in exchange for nothing. Honestly - and I say this with admiration - never was an ovation as great, as that which his companions and companions dedicated to him yesterday, so deserved. But unlike the PSOE, Compromís is not going to give him his vote, because he hasn't won it. You said it yesterday in your speech, the cornerstone of a government is trust, and that's just what Compromís doesn't have in you; it's more, we deeply trust you, and we have many reasons, despite your bitter words of yesterday, which can be summed up in: Spain goes well thanks to the PP and will only be able to go well if it re-rules the PP. If you were such a good ruler, why do you have the highest debt ever? Why has inequality increased so much? Why does Europe ask us for an additional 5 billion? Why, despite the numbers that came out this morning and that you have made present here, in the rostrum, has the Social Security hut been eaten? Why are 14% of workers poor? Why is almost a third of Spaniards at risk of social exclusion? Why are more than 3 million Spaniards in extreme poverty? You like to talk about macroeconomic figures very much, but, as Mr Floriano rightly said, you always lack skin. He spoke yesterday that his Government will be reliable and predictable, and that is precisely what most fears us as citizens and Valencians. You have been reliable and predictable in recent years by mercilessly attacking everything you said yesterday to defend, that is, the pillars of well-being; let us remember your cuts in education, health and social services. The Valencians know this well: they do not transfer us or what the essential services that the State instructs us to provide and we have to resort to debt in order to provide them. Because of his fault, because of his Government, the debt of the Valencians, which we had to owe in order to pay for essential services, passed during his term of office from 21 billion to 42,000; it doubled. It has doubled the debt of the Valencians by underfunding us. You had an obligation to guarantee the equality of all Spaniards, in fact when you go up here you fill your mouth with Spain, instead you have done nothing for the Valencians in five years, and that which had absolute majority; nothing, neither in financing, nor in investments, nor in infrastructure. Mr Rajoy - I finish, Madam President - you have not earned our trust. He said that yesterday, he does not intend to repeal his star laws, so, obviously, we will not vote for him, but, yes, we will work inside and outside this House so that the BOE and the General Budgets of the State will cease to be a threat to most people and become an ally of the ordinary people, an ally of the Valencians and the Valencians. There you will find us, Mr. Hernando, Mr. Rivera, Mr. Rajoy. Otherwise, they will face us, because even if Saturday becomes president again, Mr Rajoy, Compromís does not resign, because, as Balzac said, resignation is a daily suicide, and we want to live life with dignity. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u103	I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u104	Pick it up on. I want to begin my intervention by extending our support and solidarity to the families and colleagues of the worker who died today in a work accident in Michelin, in Gasteiz. Your policies, those of which you claim to be so proud, Mr. Rajoy, are implicit in precariousness, and precariousness kills. Fifty workers have already been killed this year at Euskal Herria, two at this same Michelin plant in the last three months, and both workers, employees of subcontractors. It is undoubtedly bad news for most of Euskal Herria's citizens that the investiture, the election of Mariano Rajoy as president, will be held this Saturday. For this majority of citizens who have routinely expressed the need for a social change in peace and coexistence together with the recognition of the right to decide our future. And it is precisely this last question that has led the PSOE to decanter for the great coalition yes. So, even if it is in the form of abstention, the PSOE has opted for the maintenance of the 78's regime and because the one that was tied and well tied does not have any loopholes to start being untied. So, we have moved from the'red before that breaks' to the 'blue before that democratic'. I told Mr Sánchez a few months ago that it was himself who stood aside from a possible left-wing alternative to the antisocial policies of the PP, and time has only confirmed what we were saying. The two pillars of the post-Franquist regime, PP and PSOE, which participate in it, in addition to essential pillars through alternation in the government, have helped to preserve the 1978 regime unchanged. And in the face of the incursion of new actors and the profound crisis that the regime is going through, they have now decided to prioritise the unity of Spain over the interests of a citizen punished by the antisocial policies of cuts of the PP, which have meant nothing but poverty and precariousness in recent years, as well as a major setback in the area of rights and freedoms. The PSOE has preferred to go further in its loss of credibility and bet on supporting the PP... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u105	One second, Your Honor, one second. Please, I beg you all to remain silent. Go on, Mrs. Beitialarrangeitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u106	Thank you, Madam President. He said that the PSOE has preferred to bet on supporting the PP and letting it continue to attack the well-being of the entire population so as not to take a single step in the democratization of the State. And it is that, even if we are told of giving a political response to the Catalan issue, they open the door to a negationist and criminalizing response like that of the PP. This has led both formations to very minority positions - it has already been said here - both in Catalonia and in the Basque Autonomous Community, and proof of this are the results of the last elections on 25 September, and they are on their way - they say themselves - to being also irrelevant. We regret to say that this clarifies even more that a real change in the democratic key in the State is impossible, and that both Catalans and Basques, if we want to respond to the feeling of the majority of our people, are committed to making our own way. And it is that the only way to make progress as a people and to be the owners of our future is with constituent processes of our own that involve real democratization and that allow us, with all the instruments of decision in hand, to build a better future; a future based on social justice, which begins with the shielding of social rights against cuts so that workers, young people, women and pensioners have decent living conditions, from which the policies of the last few years have kept them so far away; a future of peace and coexistence against those who, denying part of what has happened, intend to build a false account of the hard years that we have all lived and must overcome with solid foundations, with the memory placed precisely on those who have suffered most. And that is something that cannot be done by closing the wounds falsely, looking at reality with one of the eyes closed, and even less by maintaining prison policies designed in terms of revenge and not justice, and much less by scrupulous respect for human rights. What is reasonable, using Mr Rajoy's words, is to address all this, to look at the overallity of what has happened and to work for the disarmament of ETA, which you are striving to hinder despite the blush and disbelief of the international community. For all this, regretting that this investiture will end with Rajoy as president and a great coalition in response to the eagerness to decide his future as Basques and Catalans, our vote will be that not because we also want a democratic future in which we can decide absolutely on everything that affects us. And from now on, our task will be to seek real changes where it is possible: in Euskal Herria, where there is matter, where there are conditions, where there is a relationship of forces, where there is human capital for it, and it is only necessary to determine whether there is political will to do so. Euskal Herria needs comprehensive, comprehensive agreements, he needs ambitious proposals, he needs a turn that places him looking at the most advanced countries in Europe and not at Madrid. Euskal Herria Bildu will work to get those great country agreements that we need and that, if we don't join forces, they won't get from Madrid, they won't get from outside. And of course, in that walk we will be on the side of the Catalan democrats and their commitment to build the Catalan Republic and we will work with those who want to take decisive steps in building future coexistence, laying the foundations we need to go and close wounds and achieve parallel guarantees of non-repetition for absolutely all victims, once all people - we have not yet achieved this - are entitled to all rights. I'm done. To those who want to go that way, to our extended hand, and to those who want to deepen the policies that have brought us here, to our strongest opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u107	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u108	Madam President of the Congress of Deputies, Mr. candidate, members of the Executive, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. I am already ahead of Saturday's outcome, as has already been heard in the previous speeches, and I therefore congratulate those who have worked to ensure that the wisdom, responsibility and sense of state have been imposed on a government, and we therefore hope that there will be governance in this legislature. Therefore, he won the politics to the show, because we had replaced the conversations with the tweets and the dispatches with the TV sets. We must learn from the three hundred Members who are here in this House a lesson that is very simple and that we have forgotten during these ten months of political and institutional paralysis. The lesson is that in representative democratic systems, especially Western democracies, it is absolutely necessary to dialogue with each other, to agree with each other and to reach agreements with each other. Today is a bad day for those political forces who want a broken Spain or a Spain plunged into chaos. Get used to it and learn that politics must be within the normative framework, within the framework of the law, and above all that politics is done in institutions and not in university corridors or in street riots. Ladies and gentlemen, out here there is a society that demands enormous challenges as a society and the future strikes at the gates of this Congress with a thundering force. We have to work together throughout this House, which we are paid for, to provide solutions to the problems. They will allow me to quote some of the challenges we have to face. Firstly, this House must take a decision on the uncertainty of the future of the European Union. We need to find solutions to how we are going to increase the purchasing power of the middle classes and, therefore, of the working families. We need to seek new support for the autonomy and inclusion of persons with disabilities, persons with any kind of disorder, persons in social exclusion, women who are victims of gender-based violence, children who are under protection and the elderly. Another of the great challenges facing this House, which Mr Rajoy anticipated yesterday, is that we are a country in which fewer and fewer children are currently born and in which, fortunately, we are living more and more years. As there is no generational relief, sociologists are anticipating that we are going directly towards a population debacle, towards a demographic suicide. We have a responsibility to give viability and sustainability to the pension system, of course logically to job creation, but also to the health system, to the system of dependency and, therefore, to the social protection of the future of the Spaniards. We have to permanently settle corruption. By the way, corruption is also making use of fear and violence to rule or try to rule. No one here has talked about the digitisation of companies. How can we facilitate the digitisation of companies? Neither has anyone talked about the young people. How are we going to open up full expectations for the future of young people, of all Spaniards? Ladies and gentlemen, we have also not talked about how to promote social responsibility in the business world and, of course, the commitment to the environment of society as a whole. These are the great revolutions we face as a country and not the revolutions of the Lord Churches. As far as I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak about the Foral Community of Navarre, a community which, as you know, is small, has 640,000 inhabitants. The Navarras, ladies and gentlemen, we are loyal people, people of our word, engaged people, working people, and at the moment we are suffering - you must all know it - a four-party government, which oscillates between Spain robs us - sounds to you, right, ladies and gentlemen? - that has come from the hand of Bildu and Geroa Bai, and on the other side of the pendulum is the political schizophrenia of Left-Ezkerra and Podemos in Navarra, who ask for things in the street demonstrations and vote precisely the opposite in the Foral Parliament; a government of Navarra that is prioritizing the identity before the real problems of all the Navarras, in that obsession with national construction and in that obsession, without a doubt, with nationalism. [[Rumors]] They have paralyzed what has vertebrate and must vertebrate Navarra, which is the high-speed train and the Navarra canal, so that the water reaches the Ribera, the banks of Navarra... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u109	Wait a minute, Mr. Alli. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u110	Thank you, Madam President. It is very sad that Navarra went out to the media because just two weeks ago there was a violent incident against two civilian guards and their partners in a Navarra town, Alsasua. Faced with this, I want the whole House to know that the Navarro People's Union is the party of the social majority of Navarra, that we have a Navarra and not two Navarras, as the nationalists want and defend, a Navarra in which we all live and know how to live. There is a political party, Unión del Pueblo Navarro, which wants the progress that runs both the Navarra Canal and the high-speed train. Union del Pueblo Navarro will apply here and defend in the General Budgets of the State up to the last cent of euro that corresponds to the shipwrecks. In this regard, Mr Rajoy, we will demand, if I may say so, to the new Government the EUR 45 million owed by the central government to Navarre in connection with the already built section of the high-speed train. Finally, Madam President, in the face of the hatred that took place in Alsasua two weeks ago, the Navarro People's Union knows perfectly well that it does not face more hatred, but it faces more freedom, more dignity, more justice and more democratic values. Mr Rajoy, we will vote in favour of your investiture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u111	Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I pointed out from this rostrum almost two months ago, we reiterate to you, Mr Rajoy, the Forum's vote in favour of your investiture to achieve the great objectives that are part of the aspirations for progress and well-being of Spanish society and of Asturian society. We do so within the framework of the programmatic agreement of the coalition signed in November 2015 and reproduced again last May, whose compliance makes it possible to ensure that the progress of Spain is also that of all its territories without exception. We reject the arguments of those who support the possibility of holding a third election, because they try to justify an extremely irresponsible act for our country, which does not respond either to the spirit of the Constitution or to the majority will of the Spaniards. At the Forum we are in favour of governing the winners of the elections, not the losers. And we do it here today, referring to the Government of Spain, as we held in 2011 at the General Meeting of the Principality against those who then agreed against the winning party. We affirmed it in Asturias and reaffirmed it in Madrid. We keep it when one wins and when one loses, because we do not practice the eye for an eye, and in Forum the political principles are never occasion goods, nor balances. Having said that, we invite the spokesman of the Socialist Group, Mr Hernando, to enrich his selective memory with a journey by Asturias to know the stratospheric corruption of his party in the last fifteen years, with stop at the stations called Riopedre, El Musel, Niemeyer, Villa, Cudillero, Pravia, Somiedo, Teverga. His partner Javier Fernández can be the best guide for such an instructive visit. Ladies and gentlemen, the investment of the new government is even more important for Asturias because it is the autonomous community that sees it widen the gap that separates it from Spain in population evolution, in economic growth measured by regional GDP data and in job creation, as all the solvent indicators of INE, SEPE, BBVA Research or the most recent ones published yesterday by Funcas and the EPA just a few hours ago believe. Losing all year 2016 has meant the additional punishment of not being able to implement the PP-Foro coalition program, designed precisely to correct the causes of the divergence of Asturias, resulting from the discriminations and oblivions generated by the state policy led by the Spanish government. Mr Rajoy, the Asturians trust that, at the new stage of economic growth and consolidation of our essential services, which is to begin their new government, we can envisage a new system of autonomous financing so that no autonomous community is more than the others, but no less than another, as mandated by the constitutional principles of solidarity and cohesion. We need a railway vertebrate typical of the 21st century, with the culmination of the arrival in Asturias of the high European speed, including the urgent suppression of the anachronistic station in the background of the sack of Leon and the commissioning of the great tunnels of Pajares; the completion of the road infrastructures that were paralyzed by the government of Zapatero, necessary for the west to cease to be the Far West Asturian and to favor the intermodality of the great ports of Gijón and Avilés, and also for Oviedo to cease to display the dubious honor of being the only capital of the Spanish province without circumvalation. We also call for essential measures to take care of the basic industry because thousands of stable and qualified jobs are threatened in Asturias and throughout Spain, as well as those that ensure Spanish energy sovereignty around coal, our only indigenous fossil fuel, which alleviates the dependence on the competitiveness of companies, punishes the economy of our families and hinders the creation of jobs. We also need, with the same urgency, measures to support the livestock sector, both meat and milk, because it is up to us to avoid the dramatic depopulation of our rural area. And we look forward to putting an end to the discrimination of our fishermen, who are constantly punished by arbitrary allocations of the European fishing quotas allocated to Spain. These objectives, Mr Rajoy, respond to the transparent and diaphanous compromise signed twice by you as president of the PP and by the president of the Forum, and deposited on the Central Electoral Board, which was massively endorsed by the Asturians in the last two elections. I conclude, Madam President, with the hope that this irresponsible and unjustifiable prolonged blockade for more than ten months will conclude and give way to a new government that works to promote growth and employment; correct inequalities; promote social cohesion and ensure the welfare state, starting with the pensions of our elderly. The Asturians need more than any other autonomous community that good government and Spain also needs Asturias, like all the others, without exception. Mr Rajoy, count on our vote to add in favour of a better, much better Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u113	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have again in this House the opportunity to become the Members who managed to put an end to the blockade for the sake of the citizenry or, on the contrary, to make it read one day in the history books that we were unable, after two electoral processes, to understand ourselves. The road has not been easy, reaching agreements is never easy, but I want us to really reflect on how this journey is going on for the thousands of men and women who have their lives in suspense because we have not been able to start the democratic gear and form a government. Think of them one by one and, while they do, put their faces on them. Imagine the young man from a small town on an island who doesn't know what his future will be. Imagine a woman caring for a dependent without a benefit hoping to get help that eases her day to day. Imagine a father of a family standing and desperate because he doesn't get a part-time job. Do an empathy exercise, put yourself in your shoes and then you will see that there is a much harder and harder reality out there than this one talking to agree. I now ask you to look beyond these walls, to move a few thousand kilometers to the south and to arrive with thought to the Canary Islands, to look at the archipelago with other eyes and to see in it an opportunity. They think it is a place full of possibilities and expectations for their people: young students; workers in the countryside, in the sea, in tourism, in the factory; entrepreneurs who want to eat the world; unemployed people who dream of regaining their lives; women accustomed to pulling the cart alone; older people who emigrated and live with the minimum; citizens who continue to wait and who can no longer wait, who deserve to recover everything that is rightfully theirs and which was eliminated four years ago by the People's Party government then by absolute majority. Think of the need to move forward with the greatest possible consensus on the major State issues that directly affect citizens' lives: budgets, a new education law, a new public pension system, with a special impact on the non-contributory pensions that support so many Canarian families, and the much-desired reform of the Constitution. Think about how far we would all go with a system of just autonomous financing, in which the autonomous communities would receive the same per capita funding for health, education, social services and dependency. They think that the Canary Islands urgently needs to adopt the economic part of the economic and fiscal system, because it is the main instrument we have to compensate for insularity and remoteness. They believe that the reform of the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy is a matter of justice. We must heal the wounds that left the crisis, unite the pieces that broke then, recover the rights of the lost citizens, strengthen social policies, correct the system's mistakes by offering more to those who have less. I speak of course of the people and I also speak of the territories. That is why I am telling you today, as I said yesterday, that the Canary Islands cannot allow a single adjustment more than what Europe requires because the state and other autonomous communities have failed to meet the deficit. We have fulfilled it, but we must bear in mind that it is the people who adjust. It is the 2 million citizens of the Canary Islands who have fulfilled the deficit. I ask you to think about it. Today we will vote in this debate of investiture for those citizens, for the men and women of this country who have had inexhaustible patience, who have made and continue to make efforts, demonstrating a commitment and a sense of responsibility that has not been achieved in this House. But today's vote, Mr Rajoy, as last September's vote and as the one we lent to the Socialist Party at the time, is not a blank cheque, but an act of responsibility and a sense of state which is confined to this moment and to the urgent need for government to be formed. In order to reach this point, we have agreed with your party on strict compliance with a canary agenda that includes vital issues for the people of the archipelago and for the advancement of this country. Under that agreement today we will support you, but from this point on every week, every day, every Council of Ministers, every bill and every decree you will have to earn our support and trust. You will have to fulfil these commitments made with the Canary Coalition and with the Canary Islands. There will have to be a change in policies that directly affect citizens and their daily lives. We have the opportunity for this House to lead a new, more participatory stage in which we can make the healthy exercise of agreeing, dialogue, discussing and making citizens feel represented by a plural and committed Congress. A country cannot be ruled only by the absolute majority or by turning its back on its citizens. How many times can a man turn his head and pretend he hasn't seen it? How many ears should a man have before he can hear people cry? This says a famous Bob Dylan song, Nobel Prize. If we have the will to listen, not to turn our heads, to look into the eyes of the citizens, to agree and to comply with the agreements; if we say yes to progress and show that consensus was not a rare exception in our history, but the beginning of a path that we can continue to walk together, then only then will we be able to regain the confidence that we both need so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u115	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. candidate for the investiture, we told you in the previous debate - we try to be as clear and serious as possible - two essential things. First of all, we told him that we did not share his policies, as we have tried to believe on numerous occasions; we have told him on more than one occasion that what prevailed in his policy was ideology, and we continue to think so. Secondly, we told him that we could not trust you; we told him with the utmost respect but with the utmost clarity. We've been fighting their policies for four years, we think they're wrong, and their abuse of the Canary Islands. He also knows that we have been waiting for him to fulfill some of the commitments he made in the investiture speech that made you president in the last legislature. All these precedents oblige us, for elementary consistency, to vote not in this investiture process. His two speeches of investiture, the previous one and this one, have not helped us to change the position, because there are two issues. First of all, the so-called autobomb: how good we have done everything! I understand, Mr Rajoy, that you cannot come here to be harakiri, because that is neither reasonable nor logical, but we will agree that when in some elections, the second elections, there is a loss of 49 Members - and more in the previous ones - that means that not everyone shares this idea. 49 Members are not lost because they are. Can we not have a space for self-criticism that makes us think that there is a possibility of understanding that a good part of our policies need to be changed? That's a first concern. What do we have to think about? It would be incoherent to say that we are going to change something when you really make those kind of statements. From the canary point of view, I have to tell you something that has deeply offended us. Listen to him say - in this speech not, in the previous one - that the Canary Islands is the community of the Spanish State to which he has gone best in the last four years is something that puts our hairs at the top, because that means that all our effort, all the effort to make him understand that the Canary Islands has been mistreated, with objective data and we believe that rigorous placed on the table, it comes down like a poorly built card castle and has served absolutely nothing. We can't hear that we go from flowers to the reality that we have in the Canary Islands, which, if we had time, would cut him off with absolute precision. Therefore, we believe that you consider that there is no need to change anything. If this is so, it is not possible for a party like New Canarias to support its investiture; it would not be logical, reasonable, or comprehensible to the part of the population we believe we represent. However, as of Saturday, there will be time, if it is actually consumed that you get enough support from this House to reach the Presidency of the Government. We can assure you that we will practice a firm, serious and rigorous opposition. I do not recall ever coming here to speak without data and without questionable positions, positions well removed from victimism and quite close to reality. We will have the opportunity to see whether, when it comes to realising things - and a good element is the General Budgets of the State - we are able to detect that there is a recognition that the Canary Islands, the Economic and Fiscal System, cannot be systematically breached in one budget after another; that it is not possible to further delay the autonomous financing in which the Canary Islands loses more than EUR 600 million a year. This is recognized by everyone, including their own. This of confusing the good climate we have in the Canary Islands with which we are wonderfully going is something that, as you will understand, we don't like very much. We believe that we have time to see whether there really is an intention to change policies that are manifestly unfair, manifestly discriminatory and that have placed social, labour and economic indicators on our land that are not to be precisely satisfied. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u117	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to the concerns that have now been raised in the House by the representatives of the various political parties that make up the Joint Group. Mr Homs, I honestly do not think it makes any excessive sense now to reproduce the debate that I had at the last hour of the morning with Mr Tardà, nor to repeat the arguments that are well known about who represents the whole people of Catalonia, what is the opinion of the whole people of Catalonia, the need to comply with the law, what you call the judicialization of politics or dialogue. But let me respond to some things, more than anything, because I cannot let them remain in the Journal of Sessions simply as statements that give the feeling that I, out of rudeness or - which would be even worse - by agreeing with them, did not specify. Mr President, like other speakers, you are making an analysis of why I am going to be president if, in the end, the will expressed here and the position expressed by the various political groups are confirmed. You have even come to say in text that that, the fact that you are again elected president, goes against the democratically expressed will in the ballot box. Your Honor, can you explain to this House what the democratically expressed will was in the ballot box? Which one was it? Whether you were president of the government or who? What was the democratically expressed will in the ballot box? Ladies and gentlemen, I prefer to reach the government with the support of many Spaniards, the vote in favour of Citizens and the Canary Coalition and the abstention of the PSOE, rather than with the support of the CUP. Lisa and plainly, I'd rather do it that way. [[Applauds]] And I think it's a lot more democratic than the second. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech does not expel anyone. I have for a long time expressed a preference for reaching some kind of stable agreement with some political forces in this House. That is the normal, the sensible, the reasonable and what has always been done. In this House we have reached agreements and also signed them outside of here, at very important political moments, with your party, with Convergence, and with the Democratic Union of Catalonia. It is very difficult to reach an understanding with the maximalist political approaches that you make, it is very difficult at the moment, but I do not intend to expel anyone from this House. You, at the end of your speech, have referred to a number of matters on which I am absolutely convinced that if we do not think the same, little is missing. But since you're talking about expulsion, you could think about it. Have you ever considered that there may be people in the Catalan Parliament or outside that you may think that you are expelled by the agreements of the independenceists? Have you raised this before telling us that an absolutely democratic agreement such as that which has been raised in this House or an abstention excludes other political forces? Have you considered this? Your Honor, today you spoke of Montilla, Mas, Duran, Carod-Rovira. They are people with different political approaches; some have changed them. Duran is no longer with you; he has broken the coalition, and he has not broken it because of the People's Party. Mr Montilla has nothing to do with the positions you are holding right now. They are people in Catalonia, in this case political leaders, who think differently; surely they also think differently than I do, but of course they are not in maximalist positions in which, on the other hand, you were not until very recently. Your Honor, I do not want to break or destroy bridges; I do not want to do so, but I cannot be silent about certain statements that we have heard in this House. I have tried to dialogue with the Generalitat and this morning I have already told Mr Tardà, who has come up to this rostrum to say: referendum yes or referendum yes; referendum agreed or, if not, referendum imposed by me. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I am ready for dialogue, but I would like to ask some questions: Can I speak in that dialogue, Mr Homs? Because that's the question. You remembered that first it was the fiscal pact and then it was the referendum. I was asked about the fiscal pact and I spoke with my party and the Socialist Party, with whom I was then its secretary general, and no one was in favour of the fiscal pact, no one, and I told Mr Mas. Mr. Mas's answer was for me to present the fiscal pact at the Courts - I invited him to do so. [[Rumors]] Yes, I was there, Mr Homs, and I told him that I could introduce him to the courts, but that of course I was not going to introduce him, firstly, because he was going to be defeated and, secondly, because he was radically opposed to that approach. There were many other formulas, but already there began politics altogether or nothing, which is the ideal procedure for it to be impossible to reach any understanding or agreement. What did you expect the President of the Government of Spain to say to you when, after all, there is another option: either there is a referendum or there is a referendum? Your Honor, I am prepared to speak, to dialogue and, moreover, I will do so, but I would appreciate some flexibility on your part, because, among other things, apart from being able to comment on the date or how we write things, I would like to be able to talk about the fundamentals, because, if not, we are not before a dialogue, we are smooth and flatly before an imposition, and I am not going to accept an imposition and you have to understand that this is so. Your Honor, you said we're residuals in Catalonia. We have won them in Barcelona, in the province and in the city, in the last elections, but it is also not necessary to have a debate of these characteristics. You have lost 80,000 votes in the last election. Are we going to discuss who is more or less residual? We have fewer votes, we have always had them; we work to try to have more. You have had a good position at certain times in recent history and not so recent and now you have a different position. I just want to point out what I was saying at the beginning: I am prepared to speak, and I said it this morning, but let me be aware - and convey it in this House - of my responsibility as President of the Government. As President of the Government some things can be expected of me, but there are others that cannot be expected in any way, neither from me nor from anyone who assumes the responsibility of being President of the Government of our country. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví, you must be aware that you are very sure of what you are saying, which does not mean that you are right or that you stop having it; you probably do not want to say anything, except that you are very sure of what you are saying. [[Laughter]] It's likely that we haven't done things right throughout the legislature, it's likely. It is certain that we have lost votes, but it is better to listen to people, because sometimes it gives the feeling that the People's Party is legal and legitimate - to see who says that it is not legal and legitimate that the People's Party can govern - but it seems like a stony, strange thing and it shouldn't be so. We're not to blame for winning the election. We would have liked to have more votes, like everyone else, but you have to understand that there are many people in Spain who differ from their way of thinking and there are more who agree with the Popular Party's approaches. Your Honor, listening to you, I would give you the feeling that all those people and all those political groups in this House if you do not think or act as you wish are not respectable, are infamous and even - expressions you have used this afternoon - do not respect democracy. They're bad. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: I didn't say that.]] Yes, he did. Is the good one you are? Well, I'm not going to argue. Is the one who does what you think is right good? And the others don't? And the virtuous one is just you? Do you think it's sensible not to rule the most voted party? Well, yes, there are coalitions. You yourselves are in a coalition, because in Valencia we have won the elections. What they've done is good for them. They have done so and I will not question it, but at least do not question it that if we win the elections we can govern. Your Honor, you referred to my supposed assertion that Spain was fine. No, I think things have improved, I think they continue to improve and I am convinced that if we act with common sense they will continue to improve in the future. There are many outstanding issues and the most important is employment, which, as I have repeated so many times today, is what will enable us to improve social policies, to care for people, their problems and difficulties. There are many people in difficult situations, but in this economic crisis, which has been the worst in a long time, we have managed to maintain the major basic public services and, as I also recalled this morning, with incomes still lower than those raised in 2007. Frankly, I believe that we have reasonably prioritized public spending in our country. We have certainly not been right many times, but I believe that in the big general decisions we have done what we had to do. You tell me about the Social Security Hunch, and I will tell you that the Social Security Hunch is precisely for that, to use it in times of difficulty. We were the ones who launched the Social Security shelter in our first term, but now there is a positive fact, without prejudice to the fact that we have - I think we all agree - to hold a thorough, serious and non-partisan debate on the issue of pensions, in order to guarantee and improve them in the future. There's a positive data today. A few years ago, for every person who entered the social security system, for every new pensioner, to understand us, there were three people who lost their job; now things have changed and for every pensioner there are five people who have a job. That is the most important change, the substantial change that has occurred in recent times. The more people contribute to Social Security, the better our pension system will be, the more we will be able to provide and we will not have to use the famous pension hut. Your Honor, let me tell you this: you are not Valencia. Some of you have a tendency to speak in the name of your land and on your land there is everything. There are some parliamentarians from my party who are from Valencia, actually many, and there are also those from the Socialist Party and Podemos. So, you talk about your party or, if you want, you talk about the whole House. In Valencia you have a political force that has considerable support, but others have more support; they are more, even if let us leave it in that they are just as considerable. It seems very good to me, for that you are a deputy for the district of Valencia, which claims improvements for your territory or what you interpret as justice, it seems very good to me, but I have an obligation to ensure the interest of all. There are things to be done. We need to make a new model of autonomous financing. I think we have made a great effort in Valencia with an endless amount of liquidity measures. In order to provide basic public services, €43.5 billion has been injected. We have put in place very important infrastructure works. The government's decisions have helped to bring economic growth to 3.6 in 2015. There are also positive employment data. The Valencian Community is strong in exports; it is also strong in tourism. There's no bad industrial production data. We are making an important investment in the Mediterranean corridor; we have also done so at high speed and we continue to work at the Alicante-Elche airport. We've finished the Alicante-Valencia highway inland; the Alicante bypass highway... Hey, we've done something! It must be minimally fair when it comes to going up to this rostrum, and not going up here and making a general statement that is to say: no, it is that all the decisions that the Government makes are harmful or not sufficient or unfair to my community. If we all do this, it is impossible to govern, because that is the discourse that each and every one of the people who represent a particular territory makes. Someone will have to deal with the whole of Spain and make decisions that are good for everyone and guarantee the equality of all Spaniards. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I know your position, I know you very well. The citizens, in the end, decide, and the only thing I can ask of you during this legislature are reasonable positions, exactly the same as you can sue me. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, it is clear that our positions are different and it is true that in your speech you have addressed others more than my person, I don't know if because I didn't think I had any interest in making a direct approach to me because I wasn't going to listen to it, which wouldn't be true... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u120	...or because he had more to say to other speakers. I just want to say one thing in my speech. I agree that it is necessary to close wounds, but when it comes to closing wounds normally, the one who has the greatest responsibility is the one who has caused them, the one who has generated the wounds. And when we ask from here - and that would help to fix many things about people - a dissolution of the terrorist band ETA, it seems to me that it is something that you could perfectly assume. Why don't we ask for the dissolution of a terrorist organization that still exists, as they say and everyone knows? And why aren't you going to collaborate in the disappearance of that terrorist gang? Do we earn anything with the existence of ETA? I think we'd win something with ETA's disappearance, and I don't see why you're not going to contribute to it. [[Applauds]] I shall now reply to the statement by Mr Alli, representative of the Navarro People's Union. I am grateful for your position and your support for the People's Party, which was so from the moment we signed the agreement, then reiterated, some dates ago. I sincerely believe, as you have said here, that you have won politics. I think it would not have been good if we had to hold other elections and I think it would not have been good or sensible for Spain to have formed another arithmetically possible coalition, but, in my opinion, would not be the most respectful of the will of the citizens or good for the general interest. Your Honor, there is something to thank you for, and it is that you have spoken here about tangible things that matter to citizens: disability, wages, gender-based violence, the elderly, birth. Without a doubt, the issue of pensions is one of the great challenges of the future; I will never tire of explaining it. Spain is the second country in the world in life expectancy, which is very positive, and I believe that in that we agree with the 350 Members of this House: we would all like to live many years. Today there are 9,400,000 pensioners in Spain and there are approximately 18 million members of Social Security. We need a lot of people to work, a lot of people to contribute and a lot of people to contribute, and we need to think deeply and seriously about pensions and health. Most of the health expenditure that is made in our country and in any other country is made in the most advanced ages. It's hard to find someone 18 or 20 in a hospital, it's much easier to find older people. A large majority of Spaniards generate the highest health expenditure of their entire lives in the last year of their lives. That issue and also dependence are challenges that are not for a quarter of an hour; they are those issues that I said in my speech yesterday that of course exceed a session, but also an entire legislature. I agree with what you have said about the digitisation of businesses, particularly SMEs - it is an element of first-rate competitiveness - and what you have said about young people, their education and training. A country is really freer when it is more worshipped, and progress in it increases when there is more education and more training. He also made a reference to Navarra. I am not going to go into the comments you have made about the Government of Navarre, but I do want to say, however, that I strongly condemn what happened recently in the town of Alsasua and that my party, like its party, defends the rule of law and defends the work of the State Security Forces, which all citizens should recognize and respect. Be absolutely certain that the perpetrators of these brutal attacks will not go unpunished and that the full weight of the law will fall on them, as is the case with a State governed by law. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know of your concerns about the Navarra Canal - I know it well - and about the high-speed train, and I want to say, lastly, that relations with Navarra are reasonably satisfactory bottom-up relations at this time. We have been able to solve issues of particular importance, such as the Volkswagen case - with a new convention of new taxes and the resolution of technical discrepancies - and we are going to work in the same way to keep the economic contribution up to date. You have the absolute assurance that we will do so. I would also like to thank Mr Martínez Oblanca and his party, Foro Asturias, for their position. As you know, we have signed an agreement to stand together for the elections, both on 20 December and on 26 June. That coalition has been the political force preferred by the Asturian voters in the last electoral calls and, therefore, the electoral programme that we have agreed on obliges us all, and my will, as it could not be otherwise, is to bring it to a successful conclusion. Take full and absolute assurance that we will work to ensure the achievement of the objectives of solidarity and social cohesion between the different autonomous communities. I know of Asturias' problems in terms of economic growth and job creation. We are going to make a new model of autonomous financing and we are going to convene a meeting of presidents of the different autonomous communities in order to try to generate a minimum agreement, and then further, from a technical point of view, with the various councillors. I would like to point out that our commitment to the high-speed connections in Asturias is not in doubt, and that at the moment the serious problems encountered in setting up the infrastructure in the safest and most rigorous way are being overcome. In the works of the variant of Pajares have been invested - a quantity not less - 3,3 billion euros and in the budgets of the year 2016 we have allocated 236 million. We are also working to modify the services of closeness to Asturias. I have heard about agriculture and fishing, important sectors for Asturias, as they are in general for the cantabrian cornice and for the whole of my land, Galicia. I believe that the reform of the CAP negotiated by the Government has yielded reasonable results for the sector and guarantee a large part of the income of Asturian farmers and farmers. The battle must continue in the Spanish fisheries sector, which has been a priority for this government, and I am fully aware of the problems and difficulties of the dairy sector and of the efforts that we will have to make among all to ensure the future. I also remind you that the efforts that have been made to overcome tax lease problems have yielded good results, and that opens up a positive horizon for the future. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I thank you for your commitment, I thank you for your efforts and for your work, and we will try, with the help of others, to resolve much of the problems that our country has and to continue along a path of economic growth and job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now reply to Mrs Oramas' speech. I appreciate your support and the support of your party. I think I know, among other reasons because I have participated, it is true that a few years ago, in agreements that were good for the Canary Islands, that then suffered the vicissitudes of all known, but it is that Spain suffered an economic crisis that was certainly not less. I know the problems of infrastructure and of air and sea connectivity, the problems of ports and airports. I hereby ratify my commitment to the Canarian agenda that we have agreed with you, and I agree. I pointed out, also yesterday, that the issues of education, non-contributory pensions, training, autonomous financing and other state pacts are undoubtedly very important challenges for all. I commit myself in a more concrete way to announce immediately, in the coming days, that we will bring to the House the economic part of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands. I would also like to point out that we will, as I have said and I have just reiterated, launch the debates to adopt a new model of autonomous financing, and that we will convene, as your party and the President of the Government of the Canary Islands had demanded, in the coming days, the Conference of Presidents. And I would like to tell you that, in the Canarian agenda, employment and renewable energy problems will be a priority for us. Of course I understand very well what you said here. It's not a blank check, nor have I sued it. I don't like blank checks - I wouldn't protest if they gave them to me, but they don't seem reasonable to me. We have commitments, and they are contained in the Canarian agenda. I am aware of what we have signed and I reiterate and express our willingness to fulfil them. Mr Quevedo, you have said here, as you did on 31 August, that for two reasons you are not going to support my investiture. The first, because I don't share my policies and the second, because you can't trust me because I didn't fulfill the commitments I made when I presented myself to the investiture at the end of 2011. He will therefore vote no. He doesn't like the car bomb either. I always try to be balanced - yes, I try - but being balanced in judgment is difficult. [[Mr. Quevedo Iturbe makes negative signs]] And then there's something that's very human: when you come up to this rostrum and there's so many people spouting you unselfishly, it's inevitable that you have a certain tendency to speak well of yourself. [[Laughter and applause]] Anyway, I hope you understand. We will probably have to change some of the policies that we have completed over the past few years, but you will understand that we are not my group or I most enthusiastic about changing those policies. In any case, there are some where I am going to ask you to support me, because then I will refer to your final approach. Beware of the repeals of rules that have been useful to change the trend of the Spanish economy and employment - I ask for special attention to this issue - and beware of initiatives on public spending; at the end this is like in families: you spend what you have, and when you spend much more than you have you can endure it a season, but in the end it inevitably ends badly, as it couldn't be otherwise. The Canary Islands has its problems and its difficulties, but things are not so bad either. It is true that a major effort must be made, especially in the area of employment; it is perhaps the problem that deserves the most attention in recent years. I, of course, promise to apply myself to this, just as you have told us today that you want to make a serious and rigorous opposition, and that you will pay particular attention, among other things, to the Canary Islands' economic and fiscal regime and to autonomous financing, and that there is time. Well, I'll try to seize the opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u121	Thank you very much. In the turn of the reply, Mr Homs Molist has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Candidate, three comments only. First, he complained or surprised you that I had said that his investiture was against the democratic will expressed in the ballot box. I don't understand what part you don't understand. Look: about 14 million Spanish citizens voted political choices, and some in a very vehemently way they said they would never invest you president; they voted this, and 8 million, yes - there are few - voted you and your political strength. That is what it means when I say and say that the democratically expressed will of the Spanish citizens in the ballot boxes was what it was, and not precisely in favour of you being invested as President. Then it seems that you are going to get the investiture, it is true, by the change of opinion of each other, but what was expressed in the ballot box was not that you were invested president as it is going to be. I'm just doing this reflection. What are you residuals in Catalonia? Listen, when you do your thinking - which tells us sometimes that you do it in private, what do I know at what time of day or night -, I am sure you have ever thought about what it will be like or how it will be again that this time only 11 of the 47 Catalan Members will vote for you in this investiture. I don't know if this is being or not being residual. It seems to me that yes, and I do not think that the position of my party, which presides over the Generalitat de Catalunya, which presides over the four deputations of Catalonia, which presides over half the municipalities of Catalonia, is a residual position. I think so, come on. [[Applauds]] Second consideration: He says and insists that he has tried to dialogue with the Generalitat de Catalunya. Forgive me for insisting, but it is that in those famous 23 points that put him on the table Artur Mas, in July 2014, none of them talked about independence or the referendum. And we're still waiting for an answer. He didn't do anything. It also referred to the application of laws that are in force and judgements that are handed down by the Supreme or the Constitutional Court. He then appeals to us, Mr.Tardà and to us, to comply with the law as the maximum for the fulfillment of things, when you do not comply with it. If someone has preached with the example - I no longer put myself in cases of corruption - that they do not comply with the law and the sentences are you, because we have no room to do things this way, and we would not do it because neither is our way of proceeding. [[Applauds]] Last consideration, and indeed the most fundamental. At one point in his speech he said to me: Can I speak in that dialogue? You said that, didn't you, Mr. Rajoy? [[Mr. President-in-Office, Rajoy Brey, and Mrs. Vice-President-in-Office, Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, discuss]] He is also receiving a secret report from Minister Fernández Díaz. [[Applauds]] You asked: can I speak in that dialogue? Of course you can talk, there would be more; and it will not be I who will tell you whether you can speak or not. There'd be more to it. But I have asked you in my speech - it is the fundamental question, which highlights you and all of you - what proposal you have for Catalonia. You complain of everything and nothing. We are the ones at all, indeed, we want everything, and we will always defend it democratically and peacefully, but you are the one of nothing. Nothing proposes Catalonia. But nothing is nothing. He then complains about our proposals, the repeated ones, the ones that have evolved over all these years, and says that according to what things he cannot do, that others cannot share them, etc. But exactly, what do you propose to Catalonia? Well, he doesn't propose anything. The proof of this is that when you were asked, not only me but other spokespersons, when you go up to this zero potato rostrum as to what you propose to Catalonia. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u123	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Sometimes you may have heard things I haven't said. Legitimacy of course will have it; I said it the first day I entered here, in my first speech. I won't like you as president, but you will be my president, and I will and have done everything I can to keep you from becoming president again. But the same legitimacy that her great friend, Rita Barberá, had when she first came in as mayor. He was second and legitimately agreed with the third party to be mayor of Valencia for twenty-four years. Legitimacy, the same as the government of Botànic. All legitimacy. You have all the legitimacy. Now, you'll allow me to do everything in my power to keep you from becoming president again. When you talk about employment, you fill your mouth when you say there are five employees per pensioner. For we have lost 8.2 million hours worked - today's figure - in the five years that you are president. This explains why the pension hut is being eaten one day after another. If you eat the hedge is because you have lowered the collection and, if you lower the collection, it is because you work less. It's 8.2 million hours less than when you went to work as president. He tells me that I want to represent all the Valencians, as you want to represent all the Spaniards. You try to work for everyone, for those who voted for you and for those who didn't. I, too, try to work for the Valencians who voted for me and for those who didn't vote for me. In these general state budgets, in the investment budget, we have fluctuated between 5.5 % and 8 %, and we represent 11 %. I understand that one year was below, but one and the other and the other... Finally - I finish, indeed, Madam President - you said at the last investiture session: The funding system has not been reformed because there were other priorities. Yes, for example, the priority of the August decree of the Ministry of Defence. The priorities are to pay for health, education and social services. Can you think of a higher priority than that? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u125	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u126	Mr. Rajoy, to close some wounds, you don't have to open others, that's what I wanted to say. There has been suffering from different actors who have exercised violence and, what is needed, is to address what has happened in its entirety. Our commitment to peace is clear; this has been understood by the majority of Basque society, a society that does not understand is its refusal to contribute to the disarmament of ETA, in the part that touches it - or not - as other counterparts in Ireland, as well as in Colombia, have done. By the way, in Ireland, the IRA has not been dissolved, but it has been disarmed, and British society like Irish have the certainty and conviction that it will not use violence. That's what you have to contribute to. I want you to think about if you don't think you can really do something to make that happen. In view of the blocking attitude you are showing, I would like to point out to you that I recently heard the former head of Interpol saying that they believe that France can be a hope for unlocking the process if it does not follow the dictates of what the Spanish Government is doing. Therefore, many are asking you to reflect. I don't think moving from one thought to one story is good for anyone. That is what the People's Party and its Government are showing us by denying part of what has happened or by giving it a political entity that does not have facts like those that happened in Alsasua, that deny the Civil Guard's own report and that obey a desire to take us to the past that citizens do not want to repeat, because they want to look to the future. He insists on his rule of law. He tells us that dialogue is difficult if what is being raised, as Mr Tardà has said, is a referendum or referendum, but what you are proposing is unity of Spain or unity of Spain, and before democracy or imposition, what do you want me to say? We got the first one. In any case, if you want anything you've said here today to be credible, I'm going to stick to two of your sentences. He said he's willing to talk to anyone who wants to do it, and he said no one should be demonized. I firmly believe that dialogue always has to prevail - I also told you in the previous investiture session - although you and I can defend positions so differentiated. Therefore, I say to you that if you believe what you say, put day, hour and even let you choose the place; Euskal Herria Bildu will sit at the table, with you and anyone, to talk about absolutely everything that concerns us and affects us so that we can move forward. I insist, put day, hour and you can even choose the place. By the way, I congratulate you because you have pronounced my name well, you have even spelled it well. [[Mr. President-in-Office, Rajoy Brey, makes strange gestures]] Don't be so surprised. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u127	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am speaking very briefly. Thank you very much, Mr Rajoy, for taking note of everything that each speaker says and for responding to each matter. The Navarro People's Union has a word and will therefore vote in favour of this investiture, as reflected in the investiture agreement between the Navarro People's Union and the People's Party; what we will also do is to ask the People's Party for its part: the defence of the unique external fiscal order of the Foral Community of Navarra and, therefore, the shielding of the Economic Convention and, if the Spanish Constitution is amended, the elimination of the fourth transitional provision, from that window open to the annexationist desire of Navarra to the Basque Autonomous Community, since the social majority of the Navarros want to remain outside and want to remain Spanish. One of the founders of the Navarro People's Union said that the Navarro People's Union is a liberal economic and progressive social party - I have said it here once -. This is how we have ruled in the last 24 years, agreeing, from moderation, to the right and to the left to maintain a magnificent social welfare system, as reported by the Eurostat Office in the Arope indicator in 2014 with the lowest rate of poverty and with the lowest rate of inequality not only at national level, but at the level of the two hundred and seventy-eight European regions. One more question, Mr. Rajoy. You have referred to the negotiations with very good results, and it is to be thanked. I am convinced that we will reach that level in those negotiations, to which I referred earlier in my speech, with regard to what is owed to shipwrecks by that stage which has already been built on the high-speed train. In conclusion, the objective of Union del Pueblo Navarro is undoubtedly to approve the draft laws, to come from the forces that come, according to the ideology of Union del Pueblo Navarro, and if it is good for the Navarros and the rest of the Spaniards, we will vote in favour and we will also defend that in the General Budgets of the State the Navarra Canal and the high-speed train are endowed. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u129	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank you, Mr Rajoy, for your words which constitute an extraordinary endorsement because the joint pre-election programme of the People's Party-Forum coalition is going to become a government programme from the past morning, and that, as an unusual commitment, is a great news for Asturians. You will have all the support and all the support of my party to complete the implementation of this pact. From Saturday it will be time to put in place these measures in favor of the Asturians, who we are waiting to match the Spanish as a whole. Let me now ask you, and who your ministers will be, to step into applying these prescriptions in Asturias, because if therapy is delayed, we run the risk that for some people it will be too late. I take good note of your good words and intentions about livestock and the fishing sector. Both are going through great difficulties. Remember that visit that we had occasion to make to the herd of San Martín de Porres and that young herdman who had mortgaged his future, and that of his family, to modernize his exploitation and place it in the twenty-first century. Remember the Asturian and Spanish fishermen that so many difficulties are going through as a result of Community fisheries policy and decisions. Mr Rajoy, you have set yourself a magic figure: to get 20 million workers by 2020, and I encourage you because such ambition is shared by all Spaniards and uniquely by Asturians. Today, without going any further, the Asturians have seen how the EPA increasingly reflects a greater fall in the number of the unemployed and, therefore, we must combat this. We continue with the red light in the labour force rate again. I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out, Mr Rajoy, that you have won the elections and finally, ten months later, a majority of this House will recognise you and invest you as President of the Government. The Forum agreement with the winning party of the elections is a reason for hope for many Asturians. By voting today for Mariano Rajoy we vote for that hope, for the future of a million Asturians and for a government that will keep Asturias in mind in the Council of Ministers and in the Official State Gazette. It was already on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u131	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, today is an important day for you to commit yourself to bringing here the economic and fiscal regime that is fundamental to the Canary Islands in the coming days - I hope it will be before December. We've been desperate for a year. That's what compensates for remoteness and insularity, which will help change the energy model as well. That is why I am glad that you have spoken about the agreement we have on renewables in the Canary Islands, because it is different, and above all employment; also from that Conference of Presidents, whose possible celebration, as you have said, has led my President Fernando Clavijo to review the system of autonomous financing, because in the end health, education, social services are the fundamental thing and there we have to be all equal. The Canary Islands do not want privileges, we want to have the same funding as the rest of the communities; we want our bananas and tomatoes to compete with the Moroccans - it's simple - and we want the young Canary Islands to have a chance with those employment plans. The Minister of Employment - she is not now - has said that the Canary Islands is the one that has best managed the employment funds, and the European Commission has pointed out that the outermost areas have to have specific employment plans. We're going to work together. My political force is a serious political force that has participated in all the major state agreements in the last thirty years, with the Socialist Party and with the People's Party: state agreements on counter-terrorism, financing and constitutional matters. You have the assurance that if you comply, of course, we will be there. We are a constitutionalist political force, serious, with a sense of state, but above all that defends the interests of my land and 2 million canaries that I hope can be a reality in this legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u134	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, in the face of these curious arguments of yours about the autobomb being a way to compensate for the terrible firewood that some of us give you, I've been thinking about it and I can't regret it. [[Laughter]] I have not managed to regret it, because it has immediately come to my mind that you will be a day and a half listening to what you like and what you do not like, but in the end you will probably achieve your goal: to be president of the Government of Spain. However, I have more doubts that we will achieve our objective for the Canary Islands, which is a fair deal. It is very important that it is clear that we do not come here to cry or ask. We have come to say that agreements and agreements must be respected; that the differential canary fact has not been invented; that the fact that we are an archipelagic community located 2,000 kilometres away; and that the consequences of that have not been invented. At least I've heard him say before that there's some problem with unemployment, though he said it in a minor tone. I do not know if it seems to you a small problem, but I can assure you that it is a monumental problem; by the way, the youth unemployment rate is 60%, so we cannot be calm about this situation. Therefore, we tell him that we believe that there are more than enough arguments and that we do not need to invent them, because they are written. As for the Canary Islands-State Convention on Roads, this is the only community that has an agreement with the State precisely as a result of the Canary Islands Economic and Fiscal Regime. We are not asking you for a gracious subsidy, but we are telling you to comply with the agreements. As far as the Canary Islands' economic and fiscal system is concerned, it has insufficient constitutional recognition because, if not, it would cost them a little more to skip it. The problem is not that it will approve the REF, which is very good, but that it will comply with what there is, which is not little. Canary Islands must be on the average of the State in investments in the general budgets of the State at least in relation to the communities governed by ordinary law. Is it that hard? We are asking you to fulfil the obligations that we believe the State has with the Canary Islands, and not anything else. I'm so sorry I couldn't regret it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u135	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to the last speeches that have just been made in the House and I will do so briefly because they have done so, as the Rules of Procedure state, the various speakers we have all just heard. He points out that, frankly, I say to him that I have no greater interest in continuing this debate uninterruptedly, because it ends up leading nowhere. You rise to this rostrum and say that the fact that I can be elected president of the government does not express the democratic will that the Spaniards have affirmed in the ballot box, because I have 8 million votes - not me, but my party - and the rest have 14 million; then what do the Spaniards express in the ballot box? Is it the second party, which has two and a half million votes less or the third party, which has a few million votes less or the fourth or fifth party? Or you, Mr. Homs? That question should be answered by you. I think it is reasonable that those who have the most votes in a situation like this will present themselves to the investiture, and then the groups will decide - yes - what they think is appropriate and appropriate. It is as if I question whether there is a democratic will expressed by the citizens of Catalonia that Mr Puigdemont, who was fourth on Gerona's lists, is the President of the Generalitat; for I do not know, it seems very democratic to me, but I do not know whether they have said it or the CUP has said it. In any case, what I'm sure of is that all this leads to nothing. [[Applauds]] Nor does it lead to any debate whether we are residual or not or that I remind you that we have had more votes than you in the province of Barcelona and in the city in the last elections, it leads to nothing. I already know who you are; your history, what you have done well, what you have done not wrong, where you govern or where you have stopped ruling and I can sense what is going to happen to you in the future, and the same happens to me. I will try to get things done in the best way and in the most reasonable way possible, but, I insist, it does not lead to anything that we are continually discussing on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have been very busy, and very busy because it was my duty, but especially because it was my wish, to care for the citizens of Catalonia over the last few years. Catalonia, and in a very special way the Generalitat, the most important institution, has experienced a very difficult and complex moment from the economic point of view, as many Spaniards and many institutions in our country have experienced. However, we are taking care of all the debts of the Generalitat of Catalonia; we are covering the authorized deficit and the unauthorized deficit and we are therefore taking care of the proper functioning of public services. We have paid the suppliers and managed to overcome a situation that from an economic point of view - you will remember, 7,75 % of the funding for a year - was certainly regrettable, and we have done so because it was our obligation and our desire. Therefore, you cannot say that we have attended to some things or stopped attending to them, essentially we were there and we are still there; and we will continue to do so because that is where we have to be. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are offering a common life project, we are offering a project in Spain and a project in Europe; we are offering a project in which people are not divided; we are offering a project in which there is no confrontation with people; we are offering a project in which an outside enemy is not sought on a continuous basis; we are offering a project in which everyone can assume his or her responsibilities; we are offering a project in Spain, a country that has progressed like none in the last 40 years; we are offering a project in which people can be guaranteed a dignified life, a welfare system, a pension system, a health system, a project of integration; we are offering a project in Europe; we are offering a project like those in the world, which does not understand borders, nor understands tariffs, nor understands divisions, but only understands unity and working together in a common idea. [[Applauds]] That's what we offer, and you divide it. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví, it does not make much sense for us to make great disquisitions at this stage; I understand perfectly what your position is. I understand that it is not right for me to be elected President of the Government. I understand it perfectly, neither would I generate an indescribable enthusiasm that you were, although everyone has the right to rectify in life and, listen, in ten years you will know what can happen. [[Laughter]] In any case, there is something that seems reasonable to me, and that is that when we talk about employment or about pensions we recognize some of the positive things that have been done in Spain over this time, because there have been and many of them; above all we are going the right way and in the right direction. Mr Alli, I believe that the most important issues to which you have referred are the negotiation of some economic issues which, I say, are under way and which we will try to resolve in a reasonable way, and the bet - which I share - on the Navarra Canal and the high speed and I will try to act accordingly. I would also like to thank Mr Martínez Oblanca for his support and for his new reference to the livestock, fisheries and agricultural sectors, which are also very important. I liked your reference to the need for 20 million people working in Spain in 2020. It is perfectly possible because today's EPA says that there are 18.5 million, and we still have the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, and if in the last two years it has been achieved that every year 500,000 more Spaniards can work, I see no reason why in 2017, 2018 and 2019, I insist, if we persevere in the bulk of economic policies, the same can not happen. I am aware of the situation of the Canary Islands as an outermost region. I welcome the fact that Mrs Oramas bets on the various state pacts to which I referred in my speech yesterday, and I reiterate my commitment to the Canarian agenda. Doubts have Mr. Quevedo that I will fulfill it. I'll try to get those doubts cleared up and Mr. Quevedo one good day come up to this rostrum and say, "You were right. In any case, that's only time to say. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u138	Madam President, candidate and President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, one year has passed since the dissolution of the Courts of the 10th Legislature. They have had to pass two elections, two failed investitures, a lot of frustration and a period characterized by instability and political uncertainty to reach today. Last weekend we were aware of the decision of the Federal Committee of the Socialist Party, changing the hitherto immutable and rigid position of its parliamentary group to move from no to abstention. If the President of the Government promised to submit to a new session, he would open up the possibility of putting an end to the blocking policy, thus avoiding a third election and avoiding the shambles, so that he would again tell the Spaniards that, once again, the vote they cast in June was as useless as the vote they issued in December. Fortunately, once again his majesty the king, in view of the position of the various formations, was able to entrust the winner of the elections to come to the House yesterday in search of an investiture that would make this XII Legislature viable. This is what brings us back to the House and it is nothing else that, in an act of responsibility, Parliament is able to fulfil one of its first constitutional obligations - even if it is in extremis - and it is that in Spain there is a government that governs, a government that works and not a government in office. And I say that it is an act of responsibility, first of all, of the candidate who comes back, because perhaps it would have been better to have heard what others were proposing and my group would have increased its number. Therefore, the first act of responsibility is to have come here today and not to seek advantage, as others intended, in new elections. Secondly, of those with whom, through dialogue and negotiation, we have recently been able to present to the House a majority of 170 seats. And thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, of the group to which the Spanish have entrusted to lead the opposition from the polls. Because, with a parliamentary arithmetic like the one we have, the opposition is not to say no to everything, but to use its votes, precisely, as has been said this morning, to try to be useful to its voters. Others have already said that for them to be in opposition is simply to destroy bridges and say to anything they don't. It seems to me that they are eluding one of their fundamental obligations towards their constituents. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if some people could harbour doubts about what the Spanish told us in December, no one should have had doubts after the June results. The People's Party won again and we were the only ones who did it with more votes, more seats and, ultimately, more support from the Spanish. As has already been said this morning, we took out 52 seats per second, 66 seats per third and 105 seats per fourth, and that favoured what has always been an unquestionable rule in this Parliament, and that is that it governs who wins. Obviating the result of the ballot box would therefore lead us to a dead end: whoever wanted to be the head of the opposition could not do so for the simple reason that there was no President of the Government who could govern and who could therefore oppose. Those who intended to exercise control of the Government could not do so either because the Government in office had not been invested by this House and could not respond to a House that had not given it its confidence. Moreover, the anticipation of new elections made the legislative power of a Parliament, which, like the Government itself, was also limited by the temporary framework, unfeasible. The institutions were, therefore, suffering damage and destabilization that affected the democratic system and political uncertainty was beginning to affect the future of many Spaniards. It was, therefore - and it is - a question of ending this situation as soon as possible and moving the Spaniards that we are facing a new stage, in which it is clearly necessary to understand themselves in order to overcome the blockades, the sanitary cords, the sectarianisms and to be useful to the people. Ladies and gentlemen, let me point out that, if we want to offer the Spaniards a government that is in a position to address the challenges ahead, it is up to this House to assure them of a moderate, stable and continuing search for the agreement. Spain cannot risk paying for the consequences of an adventure of radicalism, inefficiency or uncertainty because those adventures already know how they end. Since December 21st Mariano Rajoy has always defended a government with a broad parliamentary base, capable of making with consensus and vocation of permanence the great pacts that Spain needs. The People's Party has also understood the message of the ballot box, and it is no other than the obligation to understand each other in order to successfully face the consolidation of change, that change that has taken place in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, because, after receiving a country on the verge of economic and social collapse, today no one doubts that the Government of Mariano Rajoy, in very difficult circumstances, has succeeded in straightening the economic situation, saving the country from disaster, avoiding rescue, moving from recession to recovery, from the massive destruction of employment to the creation of new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved from being sick in Europe to placing Spain at the head of the growing European locomotive and opening up the welfare prospects that most Spaniards want. It is enough to see how Spain was in 2011 and how it is today, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is acknowledged not only by today's EPA, but even yesterday until Mrs Carmena herself, who said that in Madrid she lives very well, despite the fact that Madrid has become one of the dirtiest cities in Spain, despite the fact that today in Madrid capital there is more unemployment for the first time in the history of what is in the Autonomous Community of Madrid and despite the fact that in Madrid the price of housing has risen by 13%. Hey, what did you not understand about this message, Mr. Churches, or is it that you don't talk to the mayor? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish have made an extraordinary effort in recent years to overcome the economic crisis. Thanks to all of us, we have managed to turn the situation around and the horizon of hope and prosperity that we have in our country is recognized and admired outside our borders. This great change is the result of the sum of overtaking stories of millions of Spaniards. The Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, are the fourth largest economy in the euro area and one of the largest in the European Union. Our gross domestic product is now growing three times as much as the EU average, more than twice as much as France, Germany and, of course, Italy. We are the fifth most prosperous country in the world in the past thirty-five years and this prosperity is achieved by democratic openness and the recovery of freedoms, as well as by joining the European Union before some came to this House and discovered, indeed, politics. Over the past year, one in two people who have abandoned unemployment in the euro area have done so in Spain, and in the last four, pensioners, families and workers have improved their purchasing power through low inflation and tax cuts. Our companies are leaders in the field of infrastructure. We build trains, bridges, roads and hospitals all over the world. Today we are a leading country in terms of industrial competitiveness, the second European car manufacturer and this year 3 million vehicles will be manufactured in our country, almost twice as many as five years ago. We have modernized our production model, we have 150,000 exporting companies, which makes it possible to keep our trade balance positive, we have a modern network of transport infrastructures and we stand out in the production of solar and wind energy and in the protection of the environment. With regard to telecommunications, which is an example of modernity, we are third in the world in the number of households with Internet access after Japan and Korea, ladies and gentlemen, and with a fibre-optic deployment equivalent to that of the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Italy together. We are therefore a great country, ladies and gentlemen, a great power in the equipment sector, and the agri-food sector is the seventh largest in the world. We are also admired, ladies and gentlemen, in the world for our culture. Our common language is spoken by 500 million people and also thanks to our heritage, our customs, our biodiversity, our culture and our climate we are the third most visited country in the world, 75 million tourists who come to Spain and who feel happy and safe with us. We are also a solidarity country, said President Rajoy this morning: 14 million people receive some kind of help, benefit or pension and we have millions of volunteers. We have free and universal public health with magnificent professionals. This year 60,000 patients have been treated with hepatitis C virus and can remake their lives thanks to the supply of state-of-the-art drugs. We are world leaders in organ donation and transplantation and support the most disadvantaged with more than 15,000 solidarity organizations operating in our country. Today social spending in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is the highest in our country's history. Today in Spain 50 billion more euros are spent than in 2007 on social protection, 45 billion more than in 2007 only on pensions. In Spain, 5 million foreigners have been able to find an opportunity in the last fifteen years and we are examples of coexistence and integration in support of the family, the elderly and the disabled. School failure has also fallen from 26 per cent to 18 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, I may be telling you what Spain is during my time and going on until tomorrow, but I will not. We know that we have many things to do; however, I think it is good that in this rostrum too the good things are said about who we are and what we do, because when you don't know what you have, you run the risk of losing it. These are not figures and figures, ladies and gentlemen, behind this there are people and a great country and we know that there are 4 million people left in unemployment who do not have a chance yet, but they can look to the future with more hope than they did before. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not the black country that many in this House or some on television or tweet want to draw every day. Spain is a great nation that we have reason to be proud of. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our project for Spain is going through a government that continues the task undertaken, promotes economic activity, boosts investment, continues to create employment and extends the climate of political and economic confidence that we need within and outside Spain. It is clear that Spain now needs an agreement-based government because that is what electoral results demand, because that is what the Spanish have asked us to do, and because we face challenges that no political party can respond to alone today. Therefore, the election results oblige us all. It is our responsibility to return to the spirit of consensus and dialogue that our parents led many years ago to give our children a better future. We have a new political cycle ahead of us, and we do not want or seek blank cheques, as has been said. We need to take advantage of this legislature, which may be the opportunity, to move forward in solving the challenges of the future of Spain. Mariano Rajoy comes to this House today, with the support of the existing agreement signed last August with UPN, with PAR, with Foro Asturias and with the support of the Citizens Parliamentary Group and the representative of Coalition Canaria. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank and acknowledge the efforts made to serve the general interest of these groups, through the agreement reached and in force, which involves the support of 170 Members. [[Applauds]] However, ladies and gentlemen, this majority was not enough to get green light at the end of August. That's why, like I said before, we're here again. We continue to maintain the collaborative spirit and with the vocation of permanence, in order to be able to recover the lost time and give stability to the country after ten months of paralysis. This is the spirit behind the 150 commitments to improve Spain that we signed with Citizens; 150 commitments that are 150 agreements. It is a positive project, with concrete measures that instead of repealing the policies that have been functioning complements and improves for the welfare of the people and in which, moreover, there are - as has been said also - more than 100 coincidences with the agreement that they signed on their Day Citizens and Socialist Party. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this must be the starting point. There are many coincidences that can allow us to make this legislature a stable one without excluding anyone. I would also like to appeal in a special way to the responsibility of the groups that defend the values that the Constitution proclaims. I am referring to unity, sovereignty, equality between Spaniards, strict respect for the principles of democracy, the defence of legality; that is, those values which form the basic consensus of Spanish society on which our coexistence has been woven since 1978; a great coexistence and which, unfortunately - and today some have again expressed here this afternoon - have said that they will not respect. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs stability in the face of uncertainty and a solution to the conflict. It is time to commit ourselves to the nation and make up, among all, a framework of coexistence focused on common sense, loyalty and service to the Spaniards. I can assure you that my parliamentary group is committed to this. Spain needs to find in politics the instrument at the service of society lost in recent months, with an attitude that constantly encourages dialogue. We will be there with the aim of dispelling any intention of making political discourse a bold weapon, and not disqualifying the will as the only element of expression of political discourse. The path ahead requires that we develop the culture of understanding. We have to do what is normal in Spain in Europe, in many countries where there is no clear majority, but there are coalition governments. This new cycle can give us the opportunity to work together and generously for Spain. Our project for Spain offers to address together, on the basis of dialogue, understanding and height of vision, the major national objectives. As a starting point, what the President said yesterday: firstly, growth and employment. Since 2013, thanks to the reforms, 2 million jobs have been recovered - and today we have seen it in the EPA - that destroyed the crisis, ladies and gentlemen; 2 million jobs, and that makes it possible to achieve the goal that we set ourselves in the electoral campaign, when we told the citizens that it was possible to reach the number of 20 million people working in our country. To this end, we will have to face the ceiling of expenditure and also the General Budgets of the State very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to ensuring pensions, modern health, efficient social services and care and prevention of dependency. That is why it is very important that the President's announcement that the Toledo Pact will be convened immediately, in order to make our system a balanced and lasting system, as has been the case so far. When we talk about the well-being of the Spaniards and about our protection system, we must highlight the fight against the worst form of inequality, which is gender-based violence. We also propose to make a pact on this issue with the support and support of the rest of the public administrations, to protect not only women, but also on many occasions the children of these women, as well as to try to address violence against children and school harassment. We need a new model of autonomous financing, a national pact for education, strengthening our institutions, guaranteeing and solidifying our position in Europe. We need to reaffirm the anti-terrorist and anti-jihadist pact. The pact for the unity of Spain and in defence of the Constitution is also an undoubtedly important and extremely important element. And you're going to allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to stop right now and talk about corruption. I already know that there are some political formations that come and use corruption as a bold weapon against others. Mr Iglesias has the infamous custom of going up to this rostrum to permanently and generically disqualify my group and my group's parliamentarians. Today you've had the indecency to talk about my group calling us potential criminals. Mr. Churches, I'm not going to take you out of the list of people convicted of crimes that are in your party. It'd be long. [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea: Get it out, get it out!]] I'd be here a long time, wouldn't I? [[Protests]] I'm not doing it. No, no. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u139	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u140	Here when someone from my party - and that's what the courts are for - has committed a crime, it's thrown away. Here we do not do as you, who commit crimes, are condemned in the courts and remain in your institutional positions, as we have seen recently in Madrid or as we have seen here. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Your Honor, in a democratic country who say who is a criminal, do you know who they are?, the judges and the courts; not you, Mr. Churches. Do you know where that happens? In dictatorships, those that you so well know and with which you behave so well. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] And let me conclude by saying one more thing, or one more thing. You're not made of better pasta than many of the corrupt who sit in court today; you're going to let me tell you. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: Hala!]] They may have used the acronyms of some political parties to enrich themselves and put themselves on the sale of some, but you used the name of Spain to put yourself on the sale of dictators and foreign regimes such as Venezuela and Iran. Yes, Mr. Churches. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr Sixto Iglesias pronounces words that are not perceived]] You and some of your friends paid for those regimes, so you don't like it here to talk about Venezuela, because, of course, the boss pays... [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, one second, Mr Hernando, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u142	...and the payer, boss. Ladies and gentlemen, you have lost 1,200,000 votes because you have been seen the plumber; in a very short time, that is so. Your Honor, you're also going to allow me to say something else about corruption. Corruption today in Spain is pursued more than ever - whoever does it, pays it - and the punishments are the highest that have been known so far. Our country is more transparent; we have stricter controls on the financing of political parties; there are new requirements for senior officials and we have put in place mechanisms to recover up to the last euro stolen by the corrupt. Falling into the infamous manicism of making Spain a place subject to the permanent state of suspicion may be typical of totalitarian minds, but it is not what Spain deserves. Ladies and gentlemen, tax fraud has been discussed here, but explanations have already been given. Tax collection has been achieved from 10 billion in 2010 to 15 billion in 2015. Here crime and fraud have been pursued as never before in Spain, and that is why citizens must have the security and guarantee that it will continue to be so for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, five years ago ETA was defeated by the rule of law. Now we must continue to defend memory, dignity and justice towards the victims, whose memory and witness must be our main strength, and to end the consequences that, sometimes in the form of infamous machinism, are still lived in some areas of our Spain. That's what happened, unfortunately, a few days ago in Alsasua. From this rostrum I would like to thank all the security forces of the State that guard inside and outside Spain for our freedom and security, and the judges and prosecutors who also guard the maintenance and rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important challenges facing Spain today is to preserve national sovereignty - we have seen it here in the House this afternoon too - and with it, territorial unity, equality of Spaniards and their fundamental rights. Dialogue and legality are the two necessary premises for understanding and coexistence that some have been trying to destroy for years. Most Spaniards who live in Catalonia feel as Catalan as Spanish and European. Catalonia must focus on regaining the innovative cultural and business role that has always characterized this beloved part of Spain and we must work to ensure that this feeling continues to grow in the face of the disaffection, disconnection or exclusion that some want to impose. A few days ago I heard a leader of the UPC, Mr Arrufat - whom Mr Tardà and Mr Homs are sure to know - say the following: We, the UPC, propose the convening of the unilateral referendum of independence, whether or not, with all those of the law, until the end, at least to bring into anti-democratic contradiction the Spanish State and that it must resort to some kind of legal force or even brute force that represses, if it wants to repress, to the last consequences the convening of a referendum. It's key to get to the end so you can strain the situation. Do you know what's wrong with this? The bad thing about this is not that a member of the CUP says it, the bad thing about this is that there is a government in Catalonia and two parties, such as the Republican Left of Catalonia and the old Convergence i Unió, that drag on to rule behind the votes of some gentlemen who maintain these positions in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, as I said before, today we have been able to see that, in view of the positive objectives that we have set and that they should be common, the only thing some offer is simply populism. Populism is the easy answer to complex problems. This one appears when social certainty disappears. Populism exploits people's pain or fears and lives on demagogy and lies. This phenomenon does not only affect Spain, Europe or the United States. In particular, we have seen its devastating consequences in countries such as Venezuela, such as Cuba and also in Greece - cheers, boys - but unfortunately also in other countries that we thought were not going to fall into this situation, such as the United Kingdom, whose citizens are now 18% poorer, only because of a political decision promoted by fear and populism. [[Rumors]] The working method of populism is quite simple: a culprit is sought to be held accountable for the problems and the grudge and social pain spread through the banners. The victims or the target can be the ruling parties - what Mr. Iglesias called the caste -, the immigrants - what has given as a phenomenon in northern Europe xenophobia -, or the rest of the compatriots - as unfortunately encourage some in Catalonia with that of Spain robs us -. Everyone is, ladies and gentlemen, the face of the same coin. These movements grow in times of difficulty, disorientation and crisis, and are the product of those who never speak of responsibilities, of those who use the circus, theatre or numeral to displace dialogue, reflection or responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the class struggle is not the battle of the future, it is the battle of the past. That only leads to failure and sectarianism and, therefore, we must resolutely combat it. The big questions we have to ask ourselves today, ladies and gentlemen, are the following: how will we strengthen ourselves so that a possible new crisis does not affect us with the intensity that it did last time? How will we overcome the uncertainties of the challenge of globalization? How will we create more and better jobs? How will we reduce social inequality? How will we assure parents about the education of their children and young people about their future? How will we be able to protect women from abuse? How will we make our country count even more in Europe and in the world? How will we combat the threats of terrorism? How will we defend the unity of the Constitution of Spain? Ladies and gentlemen, these are the questions that require everyone's answers. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Let us dream of a young Spain - that would say Unamuno, today so quoted throughout this investiture day - that offers our country a better future. Let us work for a free, just, solidarity-based society that rewards talent, work, effort and imagination without ever forgetting those others who, being or being more disadvantaged, must at all times help, encourage and protect. Ladies and gentlemen, let us dream of Spain's illusion, opportunity and future, and let us make it all a reality, with everyone's effort and work. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the commitment of my group, the commitment of the Government, the People's Party and Mariano Rajoy. Thank you very much. [[applause.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion asks for the word]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u143	Yes, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u144	Madam President, under Rule 71.1, statements or allusions which could damage the dignity of a Member. I understand that there has been an allusion. [[Protests.-Mr Errejón Galván: Calm, calm, calm]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u145	Wait a minute. Silence, silence. Intercommit the allusion to me.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u146	In quotes: You, Mr. Iglesias, have used the name of Spain to serve as dictators.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u147	Thank you very much. You can sit down. [[Laughs.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u148	No, I can't. The Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies state that I can intervene by allusions and repeat an intercomilado that already appears in the Journal of Sessions, and I ask you to let me refute it.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u149	Mr Iglesias, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure falls to the Presidency and the interpretation of the Presidency...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u150	This is serious. Madam President, this is serious. You have set a good example in this House and what you are doing today is a bad start to the legislature. You are not at the service of the People's Group, you are at the service of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u151	Mr. Churches, Mr. Churches, you do not have the word and I call you to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u152	What a shame, Madam President! What a shame!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u153	What a shame!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u154	Mr. Churches, I call you to order. [[Greetings in the banks of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress]] Mr Hernando, I ask you whether or not you withdraw the allusion of the Journal of Sessions.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u155	Your Honor, $4 million. Thank you. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. [[Rumors]] [[Strong Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to allow... ladies and gentlemen, I remind you all of the compliance with the Rules of Procedure and therefore... [[Protests Continue]] [[Majoral Perales speaks words that are not perceived]] [[Protests]] Yeah. And therefore, I remind all of you of your obligation at this time to allow me to continue the meeting. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Protests.-Applause.-The ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Left-In-Communal Podemos-In Marea leave the Chamber.-Mrs.Montero Gil: It is a shame.-A Mr Bustinduy Amador: This is Parliament!- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because I am going to use this shift exclusively to thank the People's Parliamentary Group, which has supported me over the years and which has expressed its willingness to do so again in today's vote and, if necessary, next Saturday's vote. I want to say to the members of my group that we have not ruled in the best times. We haven't always been right, not as many times as we thought, not as few times as others say. But I think we can be satisfied with the fact. The Spaniards in 2011 told us many things, but above all they told us one: the goal is to overcome the crisis and start the period of job creation in our country. The years 2012 and 2013 were years of economic recession and continued increase in unemployment in our country. They were very demanding years, desperate times for many. But the reforms, which were important, began to bear fruit, and today we can ask who remembers the risk premium, the threats of rescue, the recession or the continued increase in unemployment in our country. I believe that we were able to preserve, in a situation of enormous complexity, the basic pillars of the welfare state; when we were in recession, collection fell and the public deficit had to be reduced. Are we wrong? Sure. Did we have mistakes? Of course. But we've come this far. There are still so many people in our country who are not doing well, and they are our motivation now. I don't want to brag about anything or make the case, but I think we've brought something into our country. A new political stage is now beginning. Commitment, stability, dialogue and agreement are the key words. I will do as much as I can, and I ask you to help me. The chip has to be different, but the essential thing is to preserve it. We have signed agreements, we must comply with them and we need more. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, we are a party with its history and its stories, but we are a great organization, formal and with endurance, an organization that deserves respect and we will work to continue to deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u159	Let's call it a vote. The vote will begin in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pausa.-The ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea enter the Chamber.-Rumores]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Once the debate is over, we will proceed to the vote for the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by his majesty the king. As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot by the members of the Bureau and who was Mr Nadal Belda. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. I remind all honourable Members of Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure: 'The votes shall not be suspended for any reason whatsoever. During the course of the voting, the Presidency shall not give the floor and no Member may enter or leave the Chamber.' I ask the secretary to begin the vote first. The vote will begin. The secretaries of the Bureau made an appeal to the honourable Members, who were expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'yes': Nadal Belda, Álvaro María Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez, Fernando Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Nieto Ballesteros, José Antonio Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Palmer Tous, Teresa Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel Pérez Aras, Juan Vicente Pérez López, Santiago Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín Posada Moreno, Jesus Postigo Quintana, Jesús Quintanilla Barba, María del Carmen Ramírez Freire, Saul Reynés Calvache, Águeda Rivera Andrés, Irene Rivera de la Cruz, Marta María Rivera Díaz, Albert Roca Mas, Jordi Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa Rojas García, Carlos Red Noguera, Pilar Roldán Monés, Antonio Romero Hernández, Carmelo Romero Rodríguez, María Eugenia Salvador Armendáriz, Carlos Casimiro Salvador García, Luis Miguel Santa Ana Fernández, María de la Concepción de Suárez Lamata, Eloy Tarno Blanco, Ricardo Ten Oliver, Vicente Tremiño Gomez, Ignacio Valmaña Ochaíta, Silvia Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén Vazquez Rojas, Juan María Vera Proro, Juan Carlos Villalobos Talero, Celia Villegas Pérez, José Manuel Viso Diéguez, Miguel Ángel Zoido Alvarez, Juan Ignacio Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria Acedo Penco, Pedro Aguiar Rodríguez, Ernesto Aguirre Rodríguez, Ramon Alba Mullor, María Dolores Albaladejo Martínez, Joaquín Alli Martínez, Íñigo Jesús Alonso Díaz-Guerra, José Jaime Alós López, Ana Isabel Álvarez Palleiro, Félix Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros, María Carmen Angle Romero, Maria Teresa Asian González, Matilde Pastora Ayllón Manso, José Luis Under Prieto, Maria Luz Barrachina Ros, Miguel Barreda de los Ríos, Leopoldo Barrios Tejero, José María Bastida Bono, Elena Maria Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Bernabé Pérez, Francisco Martín White Garrido, Ma Mar Blasco Marqués, Manuel Bonilla Dominguez, Mary Jesus Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Bravo Baena, Juan Burgos Gallego, Thomas Cabrera Carmona, Eloísa Maria Camps Devesa, Gerardo Candon Adam, Alfonso Cano Fuster, José Cano Leal, Francisco Javier Singing García del Moral, Antonio Carreño Fernández, María Ascension Married White, Pablo Cascals Martínez, Loreto Barber Boy, José María Clavell López, Oscar Clemente Giménez, Diego Courtesy Bureta, Pilar Balmaseda Cotello, Mar From Above Sanchez, Welcome From Barrionuevo Gener, Avelino From Cospedal García, María Dolores De la Torre Díaz, Francisco De Campo Estaún, Sergio From the Sanz River, Emilio Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Diaz Gómez, Guillermo Dueñas Martínez, María del Carmen Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta Spain Queen, Carolina Faba de la Incarnation, Elena Fernández de Moya Romero, José Enrique Fernández García, Eduardo Floriano Corrales, Carlos Javier Gammazo Micó, Oscar Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel García Cañal, José Ramón García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Hernández, José Ramón García-Pelayo Jurado, María José García-Tizón López, Arturo Garrido Valenzuela, Irene Vidal Swivel, Juan Carlos Gomez Balsera, Marcial Gómez García, Rodrigo González Guinda, María del Carmen González Muñoz, Ángel Luis González Terol, Antonio González Vázquez, Marta Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel Heredia Martín, Silvia Hernández Bento, María del Carmen Hernando Fraile, Rafael Antonio Herrero Bono, José Alberto Hole Juliá, Bethlehem Igea Arisketa, Francisco Isac García, Angels Julià Julià, María Sandra Juncal Rodríguez, Juan Manuel Lara Carbo, Maria Teresa of Lassalle Ruiz, José María Llorens Torres, José Ignacio Lopez Ares, Susana Lorenzo Torres, Miguel Luis Rodríguez, Theophilus of Madrazo Díaz, Ana Maria Marcos Moyano, María Dolores Marí Bosó, José Vicente Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Maroto Aranzábal, Javier Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez González, José Luis Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel Martínez Saiz, Theophila Martínez Vázquez, Francisco Martínez-Maillo Toribio, Fernando Martín-Toledano Suárez, José Alberto Matarí Sáez, Juan José Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel Matos Mascareño, Pablo Maura Barandiaran, Fernando Merino López, Rafael Millán Salmerón, María Virginia Molinero Hoyos, Francisco Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montserrat Montserrat, Dolors Moragas Sánchez, Jorge Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria Moreno Bustos, Ramon Moreno Palanques, Rubén Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'no': Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olòriz Serra, Joan Palacín Guarné, Gonzalo Pascual Peña, Sergio Pastor Muñoz, Rosana Peña Waiter, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Domínguez, María Soledad Pérez Herráiz, Margarita Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan Postius Terrado, Antoni Pradas Torres, Antonio Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro Rallo Lombarte, Artemi Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Robles Fernández, Margarita Rodriguez García, Isabel Rodríguez Hernández, Juana Amalia Rodríguez Martínez, Angela Rodriguez Ramos, María Soraya Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Romingera Salazar, María del Mar Rufián Romero, Gabriel Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Health Areste, María Isabel Salvador i Duch, Jordi Sánchez Amor, José Ignacio Sánchez Melero, Tania Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Sánchez Serna, Javier Santos Itoiz, Eduardo Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Jiménez, María Jesús Sibine Camps, Marta Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Simancas Simancas, Rafael Six Churches, Ricardo Sorli Fresquet, Marta Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Surra Spadea, Ana Maria I'm late for Coma, Joan. Terron Berbel, Ana Belén Torres Mora, José Andrés Trevín Lombán, Antonio Ramón María Tundador Moreno, Victoria Begoña Urquizu Sancho, Ignacio Valido Pérez, Carmen Vendrell Gardeños, Josep Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia Vidal Sáez, Aina Old vineyard, Raimundo Vila Gómez, Miguel Xuclà i Costa, Jordi Yllanes Suárez, Juan Pedro Zaragoza Alonso, José Abalos Meco, José Luis Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Alba Goveli, Nayua Miriam Alconchel Gonzaga, Miriam Alonso Cantorné, Felix Alonso Clusa, Rosa Ana Alvarez Alvarez, Angels Antón Cacho, Javier Arevalo Caraballo, María Teresa Acute Casting, Pedro Azpiazu Uriarte, Pedro María Baldoví Roda, Joan Ballester Muñoz, Angela Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Barreda Fontes, José María Battle and Ruiz, Enric Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Beitialarrangement Lizarralde, Marian Nice Accensi, Ferran Belarus Urteaga, Ione Bellido Acevedo, Pablo Bescansa Hernández, Carolina Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Bosaho Gori, Rita Gertrudis Botejara Sanz, Amparo Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Bustamante Martín, Miguel Ángel Bustinduy Amador, Pablo Camacho Sánchez, José Miguel Villar Camera, Gregorio Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Campuzano i Canadés, Carles Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Candle Serna, Ignasi Carrera de Castro, Zaida Cañamero Valle, Diego I'm sure you're welcome, Joan. Chapel and Farre, Esther Green Carracedo, José David Carreño Valero, Sara Ciscar Casabán, Ciprià Ciuro i Buldo, Lourdes Cortés Lastra, Ricardo Cruz Rodríguez, Manuel Cello Pérez, Carmen Rocío De Frutos Madrazo, María del Rocío De la Concha García-Mauriño, María Asunción Jacoba Pía De la Encina Ortega, Salvador Antonio Del Olmo Ibáñez, Juan Manuel Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Diaz Trillo, José Juan Domènech Sampere, Francesc Xavier Elorza González, Odón Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Errejón Galván, Íñigo Esteban Bravo, Aitor Farré Fidalgo, Sonia Fernández Bello, Miguel Anxo Elias Fernández Castañón, Sofia Fernández Diaz, Jesús María Fernández Gómez, Alexandra Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Florez Rodríguez, María Aurora Franco Carmona, Isabel Franchise Vera, Sebastian Galeano Gracia, Oscar Galovart Carrera, María Dolores García Mira, Ricardo Antonio García Puig, María del Mar García Sempere, Eva Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio González Bayo, Josefa Immaculate González García, Second González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel González Veracruz, María Guijarro García, Txema Guinart Moreno, Lydia Gutiérrez Limones, Antonio Heredia Díaz, Miguel Ángel Hernando Vera, Antonio Hernanz Costa, Sofia Homs Molist, Francesc Honorato Chulián, María Auxiliadora Hurtado Zurera, Antonio Turrion Churches, Pablo Manuel Jiménez Tortosa, Juan Jordan and Roura, Teresa Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lasarte Iribarren, José Javier Lastra Fernández, Adriana Legarda Uriarte, Mikel López Álvarez, Patxi López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio López Milla, Julián Lucio Carrasco, María Pilar Luena López, Caesar Luis Bail, Jorge Madina Muñoz, Eduardo Marcello Santos, Ana Martín González, María Guadalupe Martín González, Lucia Martínez Rodríguez, María Rosa Martínez Seijo, María Luz Matute García de Jalón, Oskar Maura Zorita, Eduardo Javier Mayoral Perales, Rafael Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Mena Arca, Joan Miquel and Valenti, Sergi Monereo Pérez, Manuel Montero Gil, Irene Maria Montero Soler, Alberto Moya Matas, Jaume Muñoz González, Pedro José Government members in office who said 'yes': Rajoy Brey, Mariano Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, María Soraya García-Margallo y Marfil, José Manuel Catalá Polo, Rafael Montoro Romero, Cristóbal Ricardo Fernández Díaz, Jorge Mendez de Vigo Montojo, Íñigo Báñez García, María Fatima García Tejerina, Isabel Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Reyes Rivera, Patricia Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, Alicia Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Take Take, José Ignacio Pastor Julián, Ana Maria Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Exposito Prieto, Marcelo Gordo Pérez, Juan Luis Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria Navarro Garzón, Micaela
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u160	Are there any honourable Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] Consequently, the votes cast shall be scrutinised. [[Pause]] Made the count, he said
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-27-CD161027.u161	The voting was as follows: 350 votes in favour, 170 against, 180 abstentions, zero. Ladies and gentlemen, having failed to reach the proposed candidate by an absolute majority, the same proposal should be put to a new vote forty-eight hours after the previous one, in accordance with Article 99.3 of the Constitution. The plenary session of the House can therefore meet with the legal possibility of deciding from 7:45 p.m. next Saturday, October 29. Consequently, this Presidency calls for the plenary session of the House to be held on 29 October at 6.30 p.m. to proceed to the second vote on the same proposal, with the advance expectation that, whatever the course of the debate may be, the vote would in no case begin before 7.45 p.m. on the same day. The meeting rose. It was seven and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
