ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with item I of the agenda on the consideration of proposals for legislation. First, it is appropriate to discuss the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group, amending Law 25/2015 of 28 July 2015 on a second chance mechanism, reducing the financial burden and other social measures. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor for the People's Group, Mr Floriano.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u2	Mr President, I take the floor to defend the initiative that promotes the amendment of Law 25/2015 of 28 July, known as the Second Chance Law. Ladies and gentlemen, all the parliamentary groups in this House share the concern about employment and the quality of employment in our country. Not in vain, we represent the whole of Spanish society and for all it is known that when asked in the various surveys, they state that their first concern is employment. All the electoral programmes of all the political parties that attended the elections on 20 December, the various documents that have been made public in the weeks following those elections and the public pronouncements of the various spokesmen reflect this concern about employment. We should take advantage of that coincidence so that we were able to give this initiative sufficient support so that it could overcome the procedure of consideration, a support, ladies and gentlemen, which I ask all of you from this moment on. The aim of the reform we are proposing is to continue to make progress in increasing indefinite employment with guarantees of stability and full social protection. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that during the last parliamentary term Spanish society was able to stop the destruction of employment that devastated all Spaniards between 2008 and 2011. It is also true that until the first quarter of 2013 there is not the point of inflection that allows us to say at this time that 1,150,000 jobs have been created, according to the latest known data, since then. It is true that in December 2011 unemployment grew at a rate of 7.8% and is now reduced to 8%. It is true that in December 2011 youth unemployment grew at a rate of 6.1 % and is now reduced at a rate of 11.8 %. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that before the crisis the percentage of the undefined had an annual average of 68,5 % and that today, eight years later, that percentage is 75 %. These data reflect a clear change in trend and reflect a new path, but weak favor we would do to the whole of Spanish society if these data were pronounced in terms of complacency, satisfaction or, worse still, if corroborated that we are on the right path, we would decide to do absolutely nothing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to the question of whether we are satisfied with these rates of decline in unemployment and with the quality of the job created the answer can only be no. Not as long as the 4 million Spaniards who are looking for work do not find employment; not as long as employment is not stable and of quality, and not as long as the middle class does not recover the income levels it had before the crisis. The initiative we are presenting today is the cause of an experience the effectiveness of which can be seen by all of you. They will remember the first measure of impulse to indefinite recruitment, known as the flat rate, which has allowed 335,327 people to benefit from it. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, they also remember the minimum exemption, from which 219,000 workers benefited. Well, through the initiative we are presenting today, we intend to extend these benefits by extending the duration of the minimum exemption to four years, extending it to all temporary contracts that become indefinite and to the part of Social Security that the worker has to satisfy. It is obvious that this measure will make it possible to combat the duality of the labour market and encourage indefinite employment by reducing contributions, which is called the tax wedge, which is one of the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund and the European Union, and it is also obvious that if there are some workers who benefit they will be those who have lower wage incomes. This is a good initiative for all Spaniards, especially for those 4 million Spaniards who are looking for employment and do not find it or for those who aspire to convert their temporary contract into an indefinite contract. Ladies and gentlemen, during the process of initiatives similar to this one which we are presenting today, part of the criticisms that have been made, it was considered counterproductive that the financing of these initiatives should be obtained with a reduction in the income of the social security system, which simply does not correspond to the truth, since the policy that is promoted is part of the absence of contributors because there is no employment and therefore no income. There is no employment, there are no contributors and income is zero. Therefore, this measure increases the base of contributors so that there is income where there was previously zero. Furthermore, I think they can share with us that the situation we are facing is exceptional and exceptional situations require exceptional measures. The guarantee of the pension system goes hand in hand with employment. The more stable employment there is, the better we can guarantee pensions. That is why this measure, with proven effectiveness in today's job creation, is guaranteeing our pension system, which is the main social protection system of the State. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that job creation in our country is moving for the first time in history at a rate of growth equal to that of gross domestic product. In the last year, around 3.2%. It is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that social contributions have done so at 1.7%, among other reasons, although not only for it, because the share of wage income in labour has decreased in these years, but despite this I ask you to consider that income is growing above filiation if we take into account only active contributors. That is why we must continue to promote measures of this nature. The dialectic according to which this type of subsidy runs counter to the income of the system, from our point of view, must be abandoned, because the model that is being promoted precisely causes the increase in the number of active contributors and, therefore, the income of the system. That is why we can say that it will not be outside the public policy objectives to improve indefinite employment with a guarantee of stability and full social protection that ensures pensions, provided that, as is done, income is obtained where there was absolutely nothing before. [[Applauds]] It would be unacceptable - and we have some experience in that - to have surpluses and not to increase the Reserve Fund or to spend year after year on measures which not only do not translate into job creation, but also have the result of job destruction. Do not forget that from the point of view of the public finances, from the economic point of view and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, from the social point of view the best is a worker contributing to the social security system. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by asking all of you for the affirmative vote. The vocation for indefinite employment with a guarantee of stability, full social protection, the experience gained with such instruments and their contribution to the viability of the pension system are sufficient reasons for this initiative to go beyond its consideration. I know of some of the problems that each and every one of your ladies and gentlemen can put into this system, but in the process of amendments we can push instruments that overcome the differences that can separate us at this time. I have had the prudence to prepare this intervention after reading the electoral programmes and agreements signed by all of you, and I can say that all of them contain instruments similar to this one way or another that improve, through various instruments, the conversion of temporary contracts into indefinite ones. We can discuss in the process of amendments what is the most appropriate procedure, but, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on the concern for employment and the quality of employment for the Spaniards. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask once again for your affirmative vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Floriano. I have forgotten to say to you that, as usual, we are going to group the votes for today's sitting at the end of the debate on the last non-law proposal. The most optimistic forecasts of time consumption tell us that this could be about seven and a half, but I find it very optimistic and it is more likely that it will be about eight. As no one has asked to intervene in the turn against, we have opened the turn of fixing positions. Firstly, the Joint Parliamentary Group is involved and Mr Martínez has the floor for this.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives of the law adopted last July are undoubtedly very important because they include measures that have long been called for to meet a growing demand from society and to resolve situations of injustice and emergency. Hence the right second chance title, because precisely it tries to prevent an entrepreneur or a person from being penalized indefinitely for debts, provided that it has not been the result of economic mismanagement, recidivism or malicious conduct that forces them to respond with their present assets and futures until the whole is resolved. It should be emphasized that one of these objectives, as stated in the preamble to the law itself, is to ensure that a person who is immersed in an economic, business or personal failure has the possibility of re-carrying his life, even risking new initiatives without permanently having to fight the burden of a debt that he will most likely never be able to satisfy. It had already been said in the General Court procedure that the law allowed room for improvement; and if it was then rightly emphasized that it had a great social character because it created new opportunities for people in difficult circumstances, this change that is intended today goes in that line. It has also been appropriate that it has been raised as one of the first initiatives of the People's Parliamentary Group in plenary because it makes it possible to have as soon as possible another tool to influence job creation, which is the high priority that we have in Spain, as has been said. Especially in Asturias, where the rate of Asturians working or looking for work year after year occupies the last place in all official indicators. We are therefore the first to reach the challenge of consolidating economic recovery so that we can reach all Spaniards in turn and try to avoid setbacks. Several of the markedly socio-economic legislative measures are strengthened on the basis of this proposal, strengthening the advantages and benefits of social contributions to generate quality and indefinite employment. It is another formula added to combat job insecurity, which supports our affirmative vote in support of this bill put forward by the People's Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u5	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u6	Sweep on, good afternoon. Just as Amaiur stood against it when it came to its day, today we reiterate our rejection of this law, which has not contributed to promoting stable and quality employment, as we are being made to believe, and which seeks to promote the interests of large companies and financial groups. That is why we will not support the extension of the measures laid down in its day, which, as a last resort, is what we are proposing. It is necessary to take a 180-degree turn in the policies carried out in recent years, which have led to an increase in unemployment, precariousness and poverty. No matter how hard you try, reality is clumsy. Its reforms are the main reason for the loss of employment and the fact that precariousness has spread to almost all of society. Measures such as those envisaged by this law do not reverse this trend, do not create quality employment, only seek to favour enterprises by reducing their contribution. We are told that we are looking for the creation of indefinite employment, but it is hidden from us that 90% of new contracts are actually possible. We are told that it seeks to turn into indefinite eventual contracts, but the reality is quite different, since only one in ten has become indefinite. Therefore, they are not measures for the objective they claim to pursue and the only thing they represent is a smaller business contribution to the detriment of the working class and society in general. The solution is not in the bonus of indefinite recruitment, but in the pursuit of recruitment fraud, in preventing the continued use of temporary contracts for jobs that are not. We will therefore vote against it, because it does not create jobs, does not deal with recruitment fraud and chronicles the current situation. The reduction in contributions also conditions the pensions of the future. Finally, with the reform they are presenting today, they are taking a step further and want it to also affect partial contracts, precarious contracts which are increasing exponentially in recent times and which affect young people and women greatly. The data is there and, I insist, they're clumsy. Reality is what it is; this law has been in place for a few months and reality has not changed because of it. Therefore, why delve into the same mistake? The best thing is not to delve into it. That is why, I insist, we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia. Mrs Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u8	Today, the People's Group presents us with this proposal as a continuation of great success. We do not understand that it can be presented as a success in promoting quality employment, which has made nine out of ten contracts temporary over the past year. Indeed, as they themselves told us in their speech, we will accuse this proposal of being ineffective, costly and of implying a loss of resources that cannot be absorbed by our social security system. In addition, it generates a transfer of income towards entrepreneurs, increasing the regressive distribution that already took place in the previous legislature when they practiced it with their absolute majority. We do not understand why we are not investing, because what is wanted is quality employment, in active employment policies, which we remember that the People's Party has reduced by 35%; they have reduced €2.5 billion from active employment policies. If they pursue the objective they say they pursue, this is not understood. Not only does it mean continuing on an expensive and ineffective line, but many experts have already contradicted the fact that recruitments would not have occurred equally without these bonuses. Let us remember, to know what is that cost to Social Security to which I was referring, that in 2016 they have been budgeted in bonuses, grants and quotas 2,245 million euros, of which 1,650 are dedicated to financing these types of measures. When nine out of ten new contracts remain temporary and of low quality this is not understood and cannot be sold in any way as a policy of success that is intended to continue. The last thing I would like to say is that many of us suspect that all this also serves as an alibi for reducing pensions and decapitalising the Reserve Fund much more, which you have already left in very bad conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u10	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, aratsalde on guztiori. As the spokesman for the People's Group has explained, we are presented today with a proposal for a law for its consideration, and that is where we are going to deal with it. It is a proposal for a law that has as its sole object to amend one or two aspects of article 8 of Law 25/2015, which I will then proceed to analyse. For the time being and for its content - the same criticism that has been made earlier - is somewhat electoralist. It is presented at a time when it is assumed that it will be difficult to continue its legislative process, but it aims, as he points out, to advance positions in the promotion of employment. As you know, article 8 of the current Law 25/2015 aims - and it says so - to promote the creation of indefinite employment, using a double mechanism for this purpose. On the one hand, this benefit mechanism is called, which translates into an exemption from the first tranche of EUR 500 from the business contribution to the social security contribution by common contingencies and for indefinite recruitment in any of its modalities. On the other hand, the same measure but in the form of a bonus, when it comes to the recruitment of workers registered in the National Youth Guarantee System who also meet the requirements laid down in article 105 of Law 18/2014 of 15 October. The common material element of both measures is to establish that minimum of EUR 500 which the employer will not have to contribute; the temporary element is that this benefit applies for a period of 24 months, and the subjective element is that those benefits apply to the business contribution. And what the bill does in its place is, on the one hand, to extend that benefit to a period of forty-eight months and, on the other hand, to extend - and this is something that has not been specifically pointed out - the subjective scope of the beneficiaries including not only the business contribution, but also the worker. With all due respect, we believe that these specific issues have not been justified, without prejudice to the fact that they also have their positive elements. However, I would like to highlight one aspect of this law before I take the measure itself: paragraph 11 of the current Article 8: 'The bonus will be financed from the corresponding budget line of the Public State Employment Service, and will be co-financed from the European Social Fund when it meets the requirements laid down, and the reduction will be financed from the Social Security revenue budget. For its part, paragraph 9 provides: 'The application of this benefit in the contribution will be subject to control and review by the Public Service of State Employment, the Treasury General of Social Security and the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate...' Mutatis mutatis mutandis, paragraphs 10 and 12 of the new Article 8 what they do is to reproduce the same system, but we want to highlight this paragraph precisely for two different reasons. First of all, it must be remembered that that text, at the time, caused a deep discomfort in my group, the Basque Group, because it understood that it invaded the competences of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country as a result of the refusal to include an additional provision of competition protection. This was reflected in the debate. It was noted that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country had competence in this field for the management of active employment policies under articles 149.1.7a of the Constitution and 12.2 of the Statute of Autonomous Region of the Basque Country, and that this competence and the corresponding means for its performance had already been transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country by Royal Decree 1441/2010. The same characteristic was also noted with regard to the functions and services in the field of public service inspector of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate through Royal Decree 895/2011. Fortunately, and as the proponent is aware, this dispute has had a happy end through an agreement of the Bilateral Commission for Cooperation between the State Administration and the Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country stating that the application of the provisions of Articles 8 and 9 of this Law on social security contribution bonuses will be carried out taking into account the provisions of Royal Decree 1441/2010. That is, it will be done in accordance with the competence and powers of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The reason for voting against this legal text has therefore been removed, but this is without prejudice to the fact that, if this legislative initiative could be dealt with, my group would propose the inclusion in its text of an additional provision reflecting the meaning of that agreement by the bilateral Commission. The second question by which it said that it was interesting that specific paragraph refers to the treatment it accords to what it calls benefits and that it translates, as I have explained before, either into bonuses or exemptions from quotas, and this is because in the case of the bonus, Social Security would receive the amount of the contribution not entered from items entered in the General Budgets of the State - if we took away from them those of Social Security -. In the case of exemption or reduction, there would be a direct permanent reduction in social security income for the same amounts. I used to say that, in my view, the proposal for a law did not justify its relationship or impact on job creation, and we are very much afraid that this proposal would reveal some contradiction as a measure of employment incentive. Not all measures are harmless and not all are worth all the time. Although these measures are called employment promotion, in principle and in reality they are a lowering of the wage cost for the employer. They create a cost fiction that will eventually have to be assumed by the entrepreneur, and what does not or does not justify the modification that has been intended is that prolonging - extend - the temporary scope from twenty-four to forty-eight months will in some way be a promoter or tractor of employment, or at least of creation of indefinite employment. For its part, it also creates a fiction about the worker, and in this case - and with all due respect - we find no justification in the proposal or anywhere else for the measure to be extended to the workers themselves. We know that, finally, its only impact is that of the appearance of a real increase in wages - an increase that would not be such - taking into account, moreover, that the exemption from quotas would cause immediate damage to the social security system. But above all - and in addition - these measures involve direct deduction or reduction of income from the social security system. This is the aspect that worries us most not only because it represents a new imbalance in the social security accounts, but because the cost of employment policies is being charged to social security. In that regard, we believe that there has been no reflection or express decision in this regard. Nor have we seen any assessment of the results or benefits of applying the current rule in the form of a return to the coffers of the new contributors. The proponent has mentioned that they exist, but we do not know them; perhaps we should sit down and talk about them. In principle, we cannot disagree with measures to promote job creation, to transform temporary contracts into indefinite contracts or to promote youth employment; however, we would like to warn in advance of the treatment of all these issues that this has been done in a somewhat unthinkable way and, above all, that this debate needs to be brought back to the scope of the viability of the social security system. We believe that the appropriate way forward is through the Toledo Pact, either in the Commission or in the context of the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u11	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Floriano's debate today is not a new debate, much less. In fact, in the past parliamentary term, much of the discussions we had about what employment policy should be were whether or not social security subsidies or exemptions constituted a good employment creation policy. Minister Báñez - who, unfortunately, does not accompany us in this debate today - justified much of the cut in active employment policies that the government imposed at the beginning of that parliamentary term on criticism of the bonus policy. The minister based that position on an agreement reached in the Committee on Employment of the Congress of Deputies unanimously by all the groups and on a report from the Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policies, which ruled out that the bonus policy was a correct one, and even on a report which, I think, was from the University of Alcalá de Henares, which abounded in the same direction. These reports, that of the agency and that of the University of Alcalá de Henares, as well as the thesis defended by the Employment Commission with the vote of the People's Party, said that a generalized policy of bonuses had a dead weight effect. We were subsidizing a job creation which, since it was widespread, would certainly also subsidize jobs which, regardless of that subsidy, would be clearly created; therefore, it was a policy that wasted public resources. That was the thesis that we had, so even at the beginning of the legislature the People's Party Government chose to significantly reduce the number of bonuses. Then the criterion was changed and again the assumptions of bonus, the assumptions of reduction of quotas to the Social Security and we returned to that old policy that we had all denounced as ineffective and that, moreover, those who observe us from outside also called us ineffective. Mr Floriano, in his speech, said at some point that this policy had been effective and, as the spokesman for the Basque Group reminded him, at least this Member and this parliamentary group have no perception that the government's policy in this area has been evaluated by the agency, by the ministry or by any university. On the other hand, when we are analysed from outside - from the European Commission and the OECD - what we are reminded of is that, instead of investing both in subsidies and social security subsidies, what we must do is to invest in active employment policies, in training and in the guidance of the unemployed, and that, in comparative terms, the Spanish State invests much less than the other European States that have good employment policies in training and guidance. It also reminds us that we invest much more than the rest of Europe in employment subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fundamental debate and the Government's approach in this legislature is, at least, questionable in terms of the effectiveness of allocating so many resources to the reduction - through subsidies - of the cost of hiring in the formula you propose. There is another discussion - the Members who have spoken have made it clear - and I will be abounding in it. In the context of a relevant deficit in our Social Security accounts, choosing the formula of exemption, reduction, and not the formula of bonus implies increasing the deficit. I can agree with Mr Floriano that the important thing is that jobs are created and that if jobs are not created we do not have social security contributions, but you can opt for the bonus. That is, from the General Budgets of the State we assume the cost for social security of this hiring. When you opt for the exemption, you make the impact of this decline in income from social security accounts, and that is so much so that even in what you have resources from outside - in the Youth Guarantee, in the conversion of indefinite contracts for young people - as there are European resources, you do not opt for the exemption but for the bonus. Perhaps the fundamental question - which you do not dare to raise either - is whether the tax cost of hiring is a brake on the creation of occupation. In fact, when you propose that the first 500 euros be exempt from contributions, what you are doing - and in the debate a couple of years ago we had a point of agreement there - is to understand that for a certain occupation with low wages an exemption of this kind can be an incentive for employment to be created because on a low salary, with a lower contribution, an exemption of 500 euros has a very relevant impact. But in order to tackle in depth this discussion of the tax cost of employment - if we really want to get into that approach of making it cheaper for the company to hire a worker in terms of what ultimately costs the company - if we do not want to put the social security accounts in crisis we must open the debate on what other ways of financing the social security system has. The Scandinavian countries, in the reforms they have made to reduce the tax cost of hiring by reducing social burdens, have clearly opted to finance Social Security with a share of VAT. This debate you do not raise in this initiative and therefore put the social security system at risk. All this, Mr Floriano, would be reason for us today to reject your initiative in the conviction that we need a very thorough rethink of this policy, and also being very critical because in what they tell us from the outside - we are told by the European Commission, the OECD and the ILO - which should be the fundamental employment policy financed by the State - the active employment policies - you, in the past legislature, have chosen to decapitate those policies. In the case of our country, in Catalonia, the receipt of resources from the State for active employment policies has been reduced by more than 50% - I insist, by more than 50% - and these public employment services, which should be able to have personalized attention to the unemployed, are unable to carry it out. Even - a controversial issue - the collaboration between the public and private sectors, agreed at the time of the PSOE government with the Parliamentary Convergence Group at the time, in the last legislature has not had any effective development. We must be very critical of the employment policy developed by the People's Party Government. And if employment has been created, it has not been so much because of that active policy but because the economic cycle had changed and the economy was growing, and the normal thing when the economy grows is that jobs are created. We could also be critical - we must be critical - because in two of the People's Party's star programs in the past legislature, failure is very evident. One such programme, which has already been discussed in the Employment Committee, is the Youth Guarantee. The Ministry itself made public figures on the actual development of the Youth Guarantee, the major European programme to facilitate employment, training and employment opportunities for young people, and in some territories the degree of implementation did not reach 15%, nor 12%, nor 8%. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we receive resources from Europe to combat youth unemployment, being a leading youth unemployment state in Europe, and not be able to apply them? Mr Hernando agrees with me with enthusiasm and I thank him, and he will share with me that the design of the Youth Guarantee that has been made by the Ministry of Employment means that it is almost impossible for the Autonomous Communities to implement it. These weeks we have also read how the activation programme for employment, which was the programme for the protection of the long-term unemployed which the Government has agreed with the social partners, is not being spent. But also, ladies and gentlemen, the activation part of these unemployed is not working either. All this leads us, I insist, to a critical approach, but, as we have always defended from this rostrum, we will not oppose the debate in the House on initiatives linked to job creation. It is not for the Democrácia i Llibertat Group that this proposal for a law that the People's Parliamentary Group has proposed to us can be dealt with, and we will therefore choose to abstain at last in relation to the content of that initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u13	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u14	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. [[He began his speech in Catalan, reminding Gillem Agulló.-Applause from several Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament, standing up]] Thank you very much. Our vote is going to be negative to this bill for different reasons. First of all, we believe that this is an opportunistic measure with a marked electoral objective. We are talking about the amendment of a law that has not been in operation for a single year; therefore, there has not been enough time to assess its effectiveness rigorously and to check whether it meets the objectives it claims to meet: to reduce temporality, which is not true - nine out of ten contracts are temporary - and to encourage occupation, which is not true either, as we will demonstrate with this document that I am going to read. Secondly, already focusing on the content, the first paragraph of the bill states that one of the central pillars of government policy has been to promote stable and high-quality occupation. To say this after its savage labor reform and its effects, seems to me a joke of bad taste for the millions of unemployed and precarious workers who may be listening to us right now. We believe that the data do not strengthen the success of the measures they defend. The magnitude of the unemployment figures remains unacceptable, despite the slight improvement in the figures, partly because of the decline in the labour force, as many citizens have been forced to emigrate again from this State. And as for the quality of the job created, very low. If not, as I said, we should ask the thousands of qualified young people who have to emigrate to other States in order to live, or look at the very high figures of temporality, a temporality that we can already describe as chronic, as well as precariousness. The second and third paragraphs are of a triumphalism that can only be explained by finding us, for some, in the midst of the electoral campaign, because while the occupation has increased slightly you know that, instead, the increase in the income of the social security coffers is insignificant, which corroborates our thesis on the precariousness of the occupation and the low wages that, together with the reductions in contributions, exacerbate the very serious problem of social security treasury and the short-term viability of pensions. In other words, the decapitalisation of social security continues. Nor do we think it right that there should be a reduction in social security contributions for four years. I think it's a treachery. At least the report of the Toledo Pact Commission and a rigorous assessment of the law intended to be amended should be expected. This has not been done. In any case, it is not the time for isolated measures, what is needed is a package of measures that address the economy and the socio-occupational programme of the Kingdom of Spain as a whole, from the perspective of social security, the economy in general and from the economic and unemployment programme, and not a measure, I repeat, isolated, which does not guarantee higher incomes and is still to be seen whether it will really create indefinite occupation or not. We are therefore asked for an act of faith in a way that seeks to favour the entrepreneur who, thanks to the bonus, hires more people, but we think that, as has happened throughout the legislature, we start from a bad diagnosis, and that gives us once again an inadequate medicine. We do not share the premise that employment is achieved by exempting employers from paying contributions. The problem has other causes and needs other reservations. A new Government with new policies is needed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u15	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech today at the end, making clear the meaning of the vote of my group, the Citizens' Group. This afternoon we are going to abstain, and we are going to do so out of a sense of responsibility. We understand that a subject as complicated as social contributions, which affect the pensions of the future and work, deserves a responsible, rigorous and profound discussion. That will be the meaning of our intervention from our group today. On the other hand, we cannot fail to express the lack of credibility, since, after three months of listening to the People's Parliamentary Group saying that it was a government in office and that therefore they could not have political action, they present a proposal for a law, nothing more and nothing less than an issue as important as the exemption of social contributions for four years. I understand that, Mr. Hernando. [[Applauds.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived.]] Last Thursday, Minister Montoro, who is absent today, went to the Finance Committee to explain the deficit. Of course in a paternalistic tone, he explained to us that they are not guilty of anything. Previously it was the inheritance received and today are the autonomous communities, which by the way in many cases ruled until this month of May. He bored us with numbers. It is clear that this is what the lords of the People's Party like. They give us numbers, they entangle us with them, but they don't want to talk about the quality of those numbers. A member of the Group of the European People's Party told me one day in a debate that the figures are not discussed, that the figures are checked. It's just what we've done. We went to check the figures. This year's Social Security deficit will exceed €17 billion. Therefore, it is one of the main problems, because it puts in check the third pillar of the welfare state of which we are so proud, that is pensions. The increase in the number of contributors by 3.4 points does not leave any doubt that the quality of the employment being generated is low, as these increases only cover 1.7 % of the contribution income. That is, when you say that the measures have been to create quality employment, what you are telling us is a lie. On the other hand, we, the Citizens Group, are responsible for what we say, and the other day Mr Montoro left us two pearls. The first of all, which I clearly share, is that you are not an austere, because if you were an austere, you would have been an austere and you would have saved. And instead, what we've been left with is 30 billion more public debt and a 50% social security reserve guarantee fund. [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro also told us that he was a believer. That statement doesn't surprise me about him, what surprised me was that he said he was a believer in politics. We too believe in politics, which is why we are here today with the forty Members of the Citizens' Group: to make real and citizen-minded policies, which is what we were asked to do in the elections. What we want to make very clear is that in order to put an end to working time we have our measures. The first of them, which will have been bored to listen to us but is recommended by the Nobel Prizes in Economics, the OECD, people like Thomas Piketty, Mr Iglesias, who, by the way, has been guru of your group and therefore we hope you will listen to us, is the one contract, the way to end the temporality, the precariousness and the duality of our labor market, which is the greatest scourge we have in our market today. [[Applauds]] We do not stand there, we also have, of course, bonuses, but not bonuses such as those you are proposing, which have cost us 3.7 billion. We clearly think of deductions such as bonus-malus, designed for entrepreneurs who bet on quality employment, who bet on a minimum turnover of assets. Those should be the policies of this Government. And, of course, we cannot forget the long-term unemployed. We have always been committed to a training plan, as the OECD recommends. You have to bet on training in the long-term unemployed, because it's the only way to get them out of that vicious spiral in which they move. Therefore, today the Citizens' Group is going to abstain because it wants to have a responsible, deep and rigorous discussion, and we believe that it has to be in the forum of amending this situation or in the committees of both the Toledo Pact and the Employment Committees. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ramirez. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u18	Thank you, President. I will address my speech to the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, which presents this proposal. I would appreciate it if those Members of the People's Party who are not present, who are in the cafeteria or wherever, out of respect for their own proposal, would come to hear the answers from the rest of the parliamentary groups. I think it's strict. [[Applauds]] Firstly, this proposal by the Group of the European People's Party has nothing to do with a real reform of the second chance law, of the second chance mechanisms, which are so necessary for the Spaniards, so that no one will be left behind. Rather, it is a patch to generate more precarious employment at the expense of the pension fund and to generate more deficit in social security. This is the only employment policy undertaken by the People's Party in these years of parliament. It is a policy that has proved to be inefficient and unjust. What makes you think that repeating the same recipes again is going to generate different results? It seems that the People's Party is the only animal, the only party capable of tripping a hundred times with the same stone. Despite the improvement of the macroeconomic situation, mainly due to the evolution of the euro vis-à-vis the dollar, the fall in oil prices and the other conditions at international level, until the last quarter of 2015 the People's Party did not reach the levels of employment that existed at the beginning of its parliamentary term, in 2011. During these years, the greatest loss of workers' rights has occurred in the history of democracy in Spain. [[shows a picture]] Where there was a fixed contract before, there are now two temporary contracts with half pay and half rights. This is the horse of Atila who has trampled our rights, advised by the FAES Foundation and the Fedea Foundation. [[Applauds]] However, it is true that unemployment has fallen by one percentage point, yes, but at the cost of what? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u20	At the cost of expelling hundreds of thousands of people from the labour market. His labour policy has driven 500,000 people out of the labour market, including people who no longer have any expectation of finding a job and my generation, who have had to go abroad to seek their lives. That is what you are doing with the most prepared generation in history, condemning it to have to go away to perform all the knowledge learned in Spanish universities financed by public money, with the sacrifice of our families, who have to work outside, thus taking advantage of our talent. [[Applauds]] Last week we had the pleasure of enjoying the presence here of the president of the Airef, an entity that is not suspect at all of being Podemos, and pointed out that some of the tax benefits and exemptions like those that they pose are responsible for the failure of the deficit, especially that of the Social Security, that deficit of 10 billion euros that now leaves us his Government and that it will condition the policies that the government will have to undertake to come, that we hope it will be of change. These EUR 2.1 billion bonuses show that this policy is completely ineffective because if these subsidies were to increase employment, it would not cost and would not generate the hole that they are creating for Social Security, but it is that their Social Security policy is a burned land policy, it is a policy that is emptying the pension hole, which has exhausted it in half, because it has increased from EUR 66.8 billion in 2011 to EUR 32,500 in 2015. They do not dare to collect taxes so as not to bother their friends and ministers and finance their employment policies at the expense of our pensions. I already know that you do not care about public pensions because you are neither users nor are you going to be users of them, but we do care because we enjoy public pensions and our families enjoy them. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] The guarantee of our seniors' pensions is the quality of our young people's employment and we are not going to allow them to steal our future. As I said before, this reform is a patch; one more patch to the crisis that has become a scam, which is due to its management. This patch won't do any good anymore because this ball doesn't fit any more patches. There is a need to encourage recruitment, yes, but there is a need to encourage recruitment with a public investment plan in innovative sectors, financed by an increase in collection, by an increase in revenues that can start by raising those €50 billion that are lost every year with tax fraud, and at the same time guarantee decent wages and pursue contracts and hours in fraud, which is where the future is going. This 180-degree change in economic policy implies a fairer distribution of wealth, but it also implies a virtuous circle in which more income is provided to citizens with the greatest marginal propensity to consume who, therefore, consume more and so businesses can bill more, providing economic growth. This is nothing radical or sophisticated, this is being talked about at the corner bar and it's also in the mouth of Krugman and Stiglitz, two Nobel Prize winners. [[Applauds]] In addition, we believe that businesses, small and medium-sized, which account for 98% and account for 63% of employment, must be made easier to live. Today they have lost the opportunity to present a true second chance law, which is so necessary to keep no entrepreneur or person in the gutter. They should be able to include in this reform of the second chance law debts in Finance and Social Security in order to simplify procedures and alleviate the debt of families. I know that you do not know the needs of self-employed people and small and medium-sized enterprises. I come from a host family and I can tell you. My mom wants to bill more, my mom wants to hire more, but she knows that she can only do that if there is more consumption, and if there is more consumption there has to be more work with a decent salary. She also wants to pay according to the returns she has and not a fixed share as you propose of Social Security of 300 euros, and she also wants those public banks rescued with 100 billion euros - let us not forget - to lend money to the self-employed, which is what they need to be able to invest, and to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applauds]] It's simple, these measures are simple, much simpler than opening an account in Panama, gentlemen. You do not know the needs of SMEs because the only entrepreneurs you know are those who benefit from public contract awards and who arrive at Ibex on the basis of inflating invoices, based on extra costs agreed on the Bernabéu stage. You can't put chickens and wolves in the same corral. With you in government the invisible hand of the market is the one that puts its hand in the pockets of citizens and in the pockets of small and medium-sized enterprises to give it to their friends, the great entrepreneurs of Ibex 35. [[Applauds]] Society is demanding a new social pact so that my generation can enjoy decent jobs and that of my parents a decent pension; the pension they deserve after a life full of sacrifices. As we said five years ago in Youth Without Future: you have taken too much away from us; now we want everything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u21	Thank you, Mr. González. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cancela.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u22	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is surprised to see how quickly this government is in office in this case in giving effect to the processing of this bill published on 18 March 2016 in the Official Gazette of the General Courts and which we are already debating in this plenary, without exhausting the deadline provided for in Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. An initiative aimed at extending the minimum contribution exemption of the first EUR 500 from salary until 31 December 2017 for indefinite recruitment, extending the benefit to temporary contracts, which are transformed into indefinite as a measure to boost employment. I hope that this Government in office would have shown the same diligence for the fulfilment of other obligations that have been demanded of it by the other parliamentary groups and of which it has made the most absolute abandonment. The People's Party continues to believe that the problem of job creation lies in the costs to companies of workers and workers, which is why it lowers wages, ends collective bargaining, and the only measure that comes to mind is that employers do not pay their dues. They started with these policies that you call the impulse of indefinite contracting already in 2013 with the flat rate contract, replacing it later with the so-called minimum exemption, and we now propose to extend this minimum exemption until December 31, 2017. The benefit of the contribution shall be applied for a period of forty-eight months to the common contingency contribution base and an important novelty in this case is to apply this benefit to the conversion of temporary contracts into indefinite contracts, also affecting the contribution share of workers. They continue, as we are used to, to bet on measures that have not only created employment, but have redistributed and precarioused the existing one and have deteriorated the labour market, since it also applies to part-time employment; part-time employment that has been misused and that has led us in our country to have Chartered workers with excessive working hours and wages that do not meet minimum needs, and all this at almost zero cost to the business community. We do not think it necessary to encourage them, but rather to strengthen their control and readjustment. This measure of minimum exemption makes employment precarious, as it is not wage-based exemptions, but the employer benefits equally and in the same amount hires workers with decent wages or low wages and empties directly the Social Security box, since, unlike the bonuses, the exemptions go directly to the Social Security flotation line. Moreover, not content with the Government now in office, it wants to apply this exemption not only to new jobs, but to temporary contract transformations, when they know or should know that the majority of temporary contracts are in law fraud and, therefore, indefinite since they have been concluded, so encouraging their transformation does not add anything to the creation of stable employment, but is only free of charge to the employer. Once again they also dare to take this measure alone, apart from the Toledo Pact and trade union organizations. The already excessively low wages - 34% of Spanish workers earn less than 645 euros a month - cause the contributions to have fallen worryingly. These measures detract public resources through defective active employment policies, and employers are even cheaper off-the-shelf workers. What they seek is to deprive Social Security of income by awarding contracts that would have occurred exactly the same. There is a broad consensus among trade union and labour inspection organizations, administrative technicians, university studies and the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority itself, based on experience and day-to-day experience regarding the poor effectiveness of this type of active policies based on quota reductions, which, as in this case, are not neutral and are indiscriminately generalized. They are therefore a dead weight for the social security system and harm the most vulnerable groups, creating a serious limitation of spending on other active policies, such as guidance and training, which are essential to overcome the problem of long-term unemployment and the skills deficit of our working population. The combination of employment and training actions is clearly predominant in the context of the most advanced European countries; the anomalous is what happens in Spain. No one spends as much on employment incentives as we do, and no one devotes as little resources to career guidance. After the drastic budgetary adjustment at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, employment incentives have again become the active policy that the most budget absorbs. At present, there are more than 70 types of allowances, exemptions and quota reductions. In total, if we add the EUR 2.1 billion in reductions and exemptions provided for in the 2016 General State Budgets, we will exceed the EUR 7.3 billion earmarked for active policies, of which more than half are earmarked for employment incentives, which only provide decapitalisation of the social security system. That is why we feel that this proposal is not only unacceptable but also irresponsible, and we must reject this type of measures which aim at the cost of employment as a labour market problem without any further consideration. They have not learned that the opposite is true: the need to increase the income of the social security system in order to guarantee current benefits without having to resort to the advance consumption of the Reserve Fund, as they are already doing. They have chosen to continue to use Social Security as a tool for financing employment measures, which experience has shown to be of dubious success. This measure clashs head-on with the reality that social security accounts are currently suffering. At the end of the last socialist Government, 60,815 million had been accumulated in the Reserve Fund. In three years of parliamentary term, the People's Party Executive has spent 38% of that fund. It currently has only EUR 32,481 million, less than half of the more than EUR 80 billion it had received. Reducing unemployment and job insecurity are two major priority challenges for our country. A change in the framework of labour relations is needed to start solving unemployment problems and job insecurity. One in four unemployed - more than one million people - have been unemployed for four years and more than 2 million have been unemployed for two years or more. Participation rates in training are very low and fall sharply with age. Only one in four unemployed or long-term unemployed under the age of 25 participates in some formative process, a percentage which falls below 10 % in the case of the age group between the ages of 25 and 34. Despite this situation, spending on active policies that enhance the training and access of more vulnerable groups to the labour market has been drastically reduced in recent years and has mainly been targeted at inefficient subsidies, subsidies and exemptions. We need a change in the design and content of our active policies and no more of the same, which is what you are proposing. What is now needed are not exemptions, but a plan of employment shock and job insertion with a great objective: to incorporate into the labour market in a reasonable time those who seek and do not find their first job and to avoid the chronification of unemployment, reintegrating as soon as possible into the activity of those who lose their job, preventing prolonged periods of unemployment. Employment promotion programmes should consist not of exemptions, but of bonuses, which will be financed directly from the State's General Budgets and which are not neutral, but support the employment of the most vulnerable groups. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u24	The Socialists are radically opposed to such measures that support employment with lower wages and, at the same time, the social security coffers. We believe that linking the exemption from the payment of contributions to job creation will provide the People's Party Government with sufficient excuse to justify the reduction of pensions in a couple of years, which is not going to happen because they will not continue to govern. These measures are the implicit recognition of the ravages caused by labour reform on indefinite recruitment and will have a negative impact on the income of the State's arks, benefiting only the employer. With policies like those we are debating here today, the People's Party disguises itself as social to hide anti-social policies, with which they give another blow to social security income that will be made at the expense of workers and pensioners. Don't count on us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u25	Thank you, Mr. Cancela. - OF THE LORD Iglesias TURRION AND OTHER 57 DEPUTATES, 25 OF SOCIAL EMERGENCY. [[File number 123/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u26	Let us now move on to the debate on the proposal for a Social Emergency Act No. 25, tabled by Mr. Iglesias Turrion and 57 other Members of Parliament. For your presentation, Mr Mayoral has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, standing up, show a sheet, which reads: D H]] They've already shown it and I'm asking you to keep it, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, with your veneration. First of all, I wanted to point out some facts that seem illustrative to me so that we can understand the meaning of the proposed law that we bring to this House. There are 13.4 million people at risk of social exclusion, 29.2% of the population, and there are 3.2 million people in severe poverty. We are Europe's second country in poverty. When we raised this debate, when we raised the possibility of bringing in a law to deal with the situation of poverty that large sections of the population live in our country, we did not want to do it from the point of view of assistanceism, we did not want to do it from the point of view of those who look up and down, but we wanted to do it from the point of view of rights. We wanted to do so from the point of view of rights and we wanted to recall that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights are part of our domestic order. They are domestic law and are the obligation of all State administrations to fulfil and enforce their mandate in accordance with article 96 of the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]] We wanted to place at the centre of the political debate in this country that poverty and exclusion are not phenomena of nature, but the systematic violation of human rights of large sections of our country's population, and that responsibility lies to a large extent in this House. [[Applauds]] I would like to read to you - because we do little, because in our schools it is not studied and in our universities either - article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which says that everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living that assures him, as well as his family, health and well-being, including food, clothing, housing, medical care and the necessary social services; he also has the right to insurance in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other cases of loss of his means of livelihood beyond his control. I wanted to say this to remind you that this is law in our country and it is necessary that we make all the necessary changes in our legal system so that this becomes an effective reality for our people. [[Applauds]] Although we already knew that it was an insufficient proposal, before submitting it to this House we wanted to submit it to the consideration of social organizations, trade union organizations, affected platforms and collectives who have been defending human rights in our country against wind and tide all these years. We wanted to do so knowing that it was insufficient, because we understand that this bill can serve and can be a useful tool for opening a framework for dialogue with civil society, with the different political actors in this House and with the different public administrations to make it possible for article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and article 11 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to become a reality. First, we wanted to do it in the face of the scourge of macho violence in our country. We wanted to do so by recalling that in our country there were 120,000 complaints in 2015 and that one in four women do not report. Poverty cannot be an obstacle to women's access to such human rights violations. [[Applauds]] We all want them, not least, and we believe that it is the duty of public administrations to guarantee the housing alternative to women victims of macho violence, because that is part of the clear and simple message that we live in a democratic society; otherwise we would be depriving them of democracy. Secondly, we want to talk about the right to health, which unfortunately is not included among the fundamental rights in that artificial division that was established in our constitutional text but which is indeed part of the right to the physical and moral integrity of all people. We called it law 25 for human rights, for the declaration, and we wanted to do so to make it clear that the human condition makes us subject to rights and that no one can be deprived of their right to health, their right to health without a violation of human rights. We wanted to tell those who are here with different passports, those who worked for so long to move this country forward and who ran out of cards for being unemployed. We also wanted to tell our compatriots who see us from afar; we wanted to send them a message and tell them that this is their homeland and that here they also have their right to health. [[Applauds]] We wanted to give a demolishing figure, and that is that between 12% and 16% of pensioners in our country abandon treatment because they do not have sufficient financial resources after the implementation of the co-payments. We want to put an end to the co-payments, we are ashamed that the sick have to occupy hospitals to receive the medication as it is a fundamental human right. [[Applauds]] I'll talk about the house. What to say about the right to housing in our country; thirteen rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union state that our country's legislation is outside the law, that our country's legislation does not respect the rights of the executed persons. These are also the resolutions of the European Court of Human Rights and, since the entry into force of the Optional Protocol to the Petition, the first opinion against our country for failing to comply with the rights of individuals. We want to say that this is a very small first step, but there is something very simple that we must do, and that is to apply the law, the United Nations Committee's general comment 7: banning forced evictions without a housing alternative. [[Applauds]] Prohibit them in the country of Europe where 20% of empty housing is located. We wanted to do so in the country that has lived more than half a million evictions and foreclosures knowing that our proposal is not coming, it is not enough. From this rostrum we wanted to transfer the social groups, to the platform of those affected by the mortgage, which we remain committed in the 5th of the PAH ; we want it to be a legal reality in our country. [[Applauds]] We want recognition of the right to payment. That no one is mistaken, it is very easy to apply Article 140 of the Mortgage Law to consumers; to end the abuse of the application of 105, which entails perpetual debts for the people who are executed in our country; to demand an affordable rental regulation; to stop evictions; to articulate social housing; to guarantee supplies. And something else. We believe that it has been duly established that there has been a systematic violation of human rights in the area of housing in our country. Well, we put forward a proposal for a law for the cessation of that violation of rights. Ladies and gentlemen, international human rights principles when there are systematic violations are striking: truth, justice, reparation and non-repetition. [[Applauds]] Let us not forget what they have done to our people. In this proposal there are many things that are insufficient, and we know it; we talk about it with social organizations. We know that it does not touch all aspects of Article 25, but this House should convey the message that there is the will of the political forces of this country to put an end to a situation in which our legal system systematically violates the rights of the popular sectors and opens up dialogue, I repeat, with social organizations. When I say dialogue, I mean that social organisations should also be heard. We have seen many laws articulated from autonomous communities - Andalusia, Navarre and the Canary Islands - trying to put in place measures to put an end to this scourge and they ended up being appealed to the Constitutional Court. And now, a popular legislative initiative, unanimously adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia, is threatened by a new appeal to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you you're wrong. Those who want to divide our peoples or those who want to find territorial divisions in this matter are wrong; they will find us together to defend the effective implementation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. He probably has a lot of mistakes and, as I said, things are missing. There's no guaranteed rent. We must ensure that the terror of empty refrigerators in our country is eliminated. There is no need to include a simplified debt restructuring and cancellation procedure. We want to include it in the parliamentary procedure, of course, inspired, among other things, by Catalan law and other contributions from different social groups that are doing so with regard to what it previously proposed on limitation of liability to mortgaged property. We are left with the need for once and for all to be held accountable to popular sovereignty, to be held accountable to our people for why there was a bank bailout, whose money was given and why it was given. There should be transparency in mortgage securitisations and opacity should be eliminated. Let's see things like those that happened in the United States, where those responsible for financial institutions had to appear or where Goldman Sachs this week has had to compensate those affected and American society with 5 billion euros for trafficking in toxic financial products. [[The lady]] He said a companion, a friend, that in recent years, the years of the tides, of the anti-disease collectives, of the platforms affected by the mortgage, of the people who were having a bad time and who, despite everything, stood up and said that he was willing to defend their rights, we had experienced the rebellion of tears. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to assume the mandate of popular sovereignty, to implement the implementation of human rights in our country and to put an end to the violation of article 25 among the political priorities of this country. Let's do it so that we can say that the rebellion of tears ended with the victory of smiles. Before I finish my speech, if I may, I'll give you a point. In these times when there is so much talk of tax havens and Panama, in our country there are thousands of preferentialists who were put in their pocket, who were robbed with full hands. Perhaps it is time for those who have directed the financial institutions to explain to us why the banks and the banks were based in the Cayman Islands to sell preference! Let them tell us; let them come here and tell us why they first sold them to the speculators and when the speculators did not buy them, they put them to our retirees! Let them tell us, let them tell us who the administrators of Caymadrid and so many other financial institutions were who attacked the rights of our people! [[Applauds]] Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u28	Thank you, Mr. Mayoral. In the absence of any request to turn against it, we moved on to position-setting. Firstly, Mr Quevedo has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. Excuse me, but I thought there was a turn against it and I came down with my tongue out; for the short time I have it's dramatic. I have to tell you that New Canarias is going to support this proposal for a social emergency law formulated by the spokesman for Podemos a few minutes ago, because the essence is to combat inequality and poverty that have been the result of a series of policies of a radical neoliberal nature, which have allowed growth to take place at the expense of internal devaluation, that is, the deterioration of the living conditions of our own workers and an inequality caused by decisions of an ideological rather than economic nature. That matter, the oximoron that of the expansive austerity that said that the more austerity we are the more the economy grows, is something that has not been able to show anyone for the simple reason that it is impossible. For this reason, we share the essence of this issue. We believe that the false growth of this four-year past has occurred at the expense of the social majority; at the cost of provoking poverty, generating inequality and, therefore, we believe that it is right that it has entered into three fundamental aspects that are probably the consequence of these unjust policies - I insist - of an essentially neoliberal nature: firstly, the need to defend and recover the universal right to health protection. It is good to remember that here there is not just a co-payment; there is a respite of those who have already paid and, above all, on the part of the pensioners. The others we've been paying for a long time. I see Mr. Mayor's statement. I'm glad we're in the same position. Secondly, the question of the right to housing. Many of us have fought for this over the past four years and it is good that we start talking about this issue. The launch scandal is an issue on which we cannot remain impassable and we support any measure in this regard. We are in a consideration that we are going to support and we will certainly be able to improve some things later. And thirdly, the right to basic energy supply. There has been a campal battle against this issue here. Here an electric counter-reform has been carried out, which has done what it has done is to generate a new form of poverty, which is energy poverty. We, therefore, have to be pleased that this is the case; I am just saying that there is a certain melancholy. It is possible that the proposal of law that you bring here today will prosper, but do you know what happens? What happens is the sarcasm that suddenly there is no one to apply it, because perhaps we are not able to do what needs to be done, which is a new government and a political change in Spain. I trust there's time to solve this. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u30	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. For the same group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u31	Thank you, President. Pick it up on, knock it off. At Euskal Herria Bildu we are in solidarity with the working and working classes beyond our borders. Therefore, we advocate laws that restore the infinity of rights that the different Spanish governments have been stealing from the citizenry. Many of these rights, however, would be possible today in Euskal Herria if the State, in its re-centralizing endeavour, did not systematically interfere with the sovereign decisions of the institutions of the autonomous community and of Nafarroa. As has been said, in the area of housing, all the autonomous laws that have been adopted have been used and that also represent an advance in the recognition of the right to housing, while the Spanish Government does not apply the judgments of the European Court of Justice, which considers the laws of the People's Party to be contrary to the rights of citizens. And it is that the Government does not hesitate to attack the autonomous powers in an attempt to achieve what it does not achieve on the judicial track by political means. One of the appeals, the Basque Housing Act, has taken an important step forward in recognizing housing as a subjective right. It is therefore an instrument to deal with evictions. In short, it is a step forward to combat the harsh reality that there is more and more empty housing and more homeless people. Therefore, just as we would like to see similar progress for citizens in the State and we are ready to support those involved in the measures envisaged in this initiative, we ask Podemos - on just reciprocity - to respect and defend our legitimate decisions, as well as the social progress they represent. If that is the case, we will put forward an amendment to that effect and we hope that it will be supported. With regard to the content of the law, I would like to make a couple of notes. You yourselves recognized that it has many things to improve, and the parliamentary procedure is for that purpose. Simply put, I'm going to make a series of notes about the content. I would like to reiterate - of course not - our opposition to the pharmaceutical co-op and, therefore, to the limitation of the right to health in its entirety. I would also like to show our strongest commitment to measures that will end energy poverty. If the initiative goes ahead, there will be time in the parliamentary process to talk about it all. And as far as male violence is concerned, I would like to highlight two important shortcomings in our understanding that we have encountered. On the one hand, the oblivion of domestic violence, since macho violence is something more than that produced by the couple or the ex-partner to whom reference is made. Violence from parents to daughters, as a mere example, is also sexist violence. On the other hand, we have missed an article 15 in this area: an emergency plan for aggressors that brings agility in procedures and surveillance to them - not to the aggressors - so that they do not do it again. This would help to have a little more peace for the victims and in many cases, in addition, by returning to the beginning of the law itself, it would mean that they did not have to leave their homes, so that we would not have to solve a problem but would avoid that problem. But, as we said, let us hope that the process of this bill will continue and that we will all be able to make improvements. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u32	Thank you, honourable Member. For the same group, Mr Bataller.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u33	Thank you, Madam President. [[He begins his intervention in Valencian, remembering Gillem Aguló.-Applause]] The peremptory necessity of this bill we understand to be explained by itself, because the management of the crisis carried out by the outgoing Government of the People's Party, as you know, has involved a process of socialization of losses. Those who have benefited from the neoliberal model are now the ones who escape their excesses and irresponsibility, sometimes to Panama or other paradises, and instead impose the consequences on society as a whole, where the most vulnerable are the most harmed. In the spirit of the Botanic Pact and the experience of the Valencian Government, in which the highest priority and our motto has been to rescue people, we must also act at the state level in the social emergency situation in which we are immersed. We would like - also here in the State - to have a government that could activate initiatives such as that presented by the Council of the Valencian Generalitat recently with the Law of Social Function, which seeks to make effective the right to a decent and affordable housing. They will remember that last week there was a fact that is not repeated much, and that is that we attended a unanimous vote on the need to increase the amounts of the interprofessional minimum wage. I had the opportunity to intervene in the previous debate and I said there that we do not want minimum lives but decent lives and today, since Compromís, we reaffirm ourselves in this idea, we support this law 25, of social and democratic emergency, for the true universalization, without hindrance, of the rights to health, housing and energy supplies, especially when people have no money or have been subjected to sexist violence or are vulnerable for any other reason. We bet on this plan of confrontation against exclusion, against poverty, because we want to finally wake up in this country from the bad dream in which the basic rights recognized in the Constitution must still be fought, regained, because in the previous legislature they have been in serious danger. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, recognize that we define how we define our macroeconomic figures, the truth is that today many people in our country are having a bad time and need urgent solutions. For them, for them, I ask for a unanimous vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u34	Thank you, Mr. Bataller. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. One of the keys to advanced countries is their level of consciousness, their spirit. Its principles of life and people's conduct are structured on the prevalence of spirit over matter, and its development is based on values: public ethics and morality, transparency, collaboration, responsibility, respect for people and their property, respect for the right and its norms, duty and solidarity. The Basque Nationalist Party, in its long history, has always been a party of values, and one of them is that of social cohesion. We have always argued as a political philosophy that a society with economic development but without social cohesion is not desirable but not sustainable. Economic development and social cohesion must go hand in hand. The future of every society consists of collective work, continuous effort, respect for ideological and political pluralism. For this reason, we advocate and practice where we govern - Basque Government, historical territories and Basque municipalities - the model of a cohesive society, with guaranteed essential public services, sustainable, advanced social policies, with economic and budgetary sustainability and with legal certainty, but without losing its objectives: equal opportunities and protection of the weakest. In short, we have always opted for a doctile coexistence, appropriate to our historical-political peculiarities, in a society developed economically and socially cohesive, without leaving anyone behind, without social fractures, because through them society is diluted, because it is people that matter. Finally, in these first considerations, we would also like to recall that the leading countries in competitiveness and human development are highly decentralized countries, countries with regions, with their own institutional frameworks and countries with regions with policies and strategies of all kinds, including differentiated and stable social ones. For this reason, Basque self-government means a model of essential public services that work, of quality, with equity, with good management, sustainable and planned, that seek to improve the standard of living of Basque society, guaranteeing a threshold of dignity to people, a developed plural, cohesive and supportive country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ready to share this model, as long as our secular self-government is fully respected. We defend our Statute, agreed with the State and ratified by Basque citizens, and our values. Ladies and gentlemen, these principles will be the canon of prosecution that we are going to take into account in considering the proposed law that we are now debating and from four points of view. First, from the perspective of our self-government. We have to say that, if the People's Party used the economic crisis in the previous legislature to centralize public policies, it is now Podemos who intends to use the welfare state crisis to centralize other public policies and continue to transform the political autonomy of Euskadi and other nations of the Spanish state into mere management autonomy. We, the Basque nationalists, at least aspire to deepen our self-government, to allow us to develop our own policies and strategies, not threatened by centralizing or uniforming tendencies, not to coerce them, as the People's Party did, but not to impose them on us now, as Podemos claims. We defend for Euskadi and its citizens a state of well-being with its own voice, as in all leading countries in competitiveness and well-being in human development, not as the proposed law, which seeks to impose on us public policies on housing and energy poverty and in which a number of subjective public rights are recognized for certain people in need. We have already said, and it is well known, the social inspiration of the Basque Nationalist Party and its institutions, which makes Euskadi the most dense social protection system in the Spanish State and at the level of the most advanced in Europe. Already in 1989, twenty-seven years ago, the subjective public right to income-guarantee income and social emergency aid was created, including energy sufficiency and housing rental aid. In these concepts we spent almost EUR 500 million in the last financial year in the Basque Government, and the foreign parliaments allocate almost 40% of their resources to social services. In particular, Araba, 151 million; Bizkaia, 472 million; and Gipuzkoa, 345 million. A total of almost 1.5 billion, 11% of all the budgets of the Basque Government and the outlaws. Therefore, the proposed law, in addition to being in violation of our exclusive powers, does not teach us anything. As the People's Party has been doing, now you, of Podemos, intend to maintain the pre-eminent role of the state in fixing the major public policies, now the caregiver, which are the exclusive competence of Euskadi, Catalonia and other autonomous communities, and with a degree of detail that the PSOE did not do in its day. It serves as a sample button for article 28 and the 15th additional provision of Organic Law 1/2004, on comprehensive measures against gender-based violence, and compare with the proposal now under discussion. The political autonomy of Euskadi is degraded, using the same instruments used by the People's Party, not considering that the matter of social assistance is an exclusive competence, not considering that there are exclusive competences of Euskadi, using State competition titles strengthened by this competitively invasive intervention. If the totem of the People's Party were articles 135 and 149.1.13.a of the Constitution, we can now collect the glove and, for the same centralizing purpose, uses article 149.1.1.a as a universal source of jurisdictional attribution. Curious way, gentlemen of Podemos, to inaugurate his proclaimed recognition of the right to decide of the historical nations of the Spanish State. In short, they propose to us a model of governance of a centralist character that disdraws the division of competence of the bloc of constitutionality, at least for those autonomous communities, such as that of Euskadi, that show a greater will for self-government, thus remaining as mere managers of public policies designed in a uniform way from the State, without margin for the development of their own policies in these matters. And the instrument used for this has been article 149.1.1.a of the Constitution - the reference to article 149.1.25.a seems to us to be picturesque, to say the least - giving it such an extension to legitimize the design of mandatory public policies, uniformizing and without limit of depth. We do not share either politically or legally this way of understanding and stretching horizontal State competition titles, such as Article 149.1.1(a), Article 149.1.13(a) and Article 149.1.18(a), in exclusive areas of Euskadi, and we share even less that the use of Article 149.1.1(a) is made to regulate something that is not constitutional rights and duties, but guiding principles of social and economic policy. While accepting merely dialectical effects that these guiding principles could be directly linked to the jurisdictional rule of article 149.1.1.a, its normative development could in no case have a regulatory depth such as that envisaged in the proposed law now under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you have inaugurated in this House an unprecedented manifestation of centralism, the democratic one. We'll see what it's worth. In another order of things and discussed the proposal, we also do not share the principles of sustainability and responsibility that they do not meet, since they do not have an economic memory. Nor do we share the confiscatory effect that is seen in some precepts and that is miscompared with article 33.3 of the Constitution, because they are not going to pay...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u36	Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u37	I'm running out, Your Honor. ...you are not going to pay it who you claim, but the citizens, through your taxes. Finally, there is a retaliatory of serious technical deficiencies. On all these issues, we will not oppose it, but we will not support it, and if it succeeds, we will make the relevant amendments in its handling.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u38	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group on Democracy and Llibertat, Mrs Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u39	Thank you, President. I am surprised that it is difficult for so many to understand that many of the citizens of Catalonia are deluding us, and very much, independence as an instrument for obtaining a state of their own, a state that plays for us, a state that works for people, for our citizens, for our businesses, small, medium and large. I am surprised that they cannot understand the illusion that we are no longer dependent on an absolutely politicized Constitutional Court, whose president entered as president with the People's Party's Carnet in his pocket. This same Constitutional Court has done so again, has annulled the decree of energy poverty approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, thus prohibiting the Government of Catalonia from guaranteeing basic supplies to all families who cannot pay the bills. [[The Lord]] Not that they don't want to pay them, that they can't pay them. On the other hand, this same Constitutional Court, which lays down decrees of energy poverty, is not scandalized, for example, by the construction of an AVE station in a small village in Zamora called Otero de Sanabria. Otero de Sanabria has only twenty inhabitants. There are no children, there are no young people of working age, there are no pharmacies, there are no supermarkets, there are no bars, but there is going to be an AVE station that costs us all 6.5 million euros. Why is good management of our resources penalized and not bad management of our resources criminalized? Far from responding to the urgent needs of our citizens and, moreover, failing and contradicting many international commitments, this policy once again fails. The Government of Catalonia has been working for too many years on urgent measures to tackle the emergency in the field of housing and energy poverty; too many years in which Catalonia has to look back to see when the Spanish institution of turn comes to bury our decisions. So, today, I allow myself the luxury of saying that with more desire than ever to be able to start applying these measures in which we have been working for years, we say: prou, we will not pass any more. And don't take this as an act of disobedience because it's an act of political responsibility. Today in Catalonia there are more than 200,000 households in which all its members are unemployed - all of them - 95,000 of these 200,000 families do not receive any income. So, for all the families who are in the same situation as these 200,000, I ask you to stop sewing the Spanish state of steel and start doing the policy, the high policy that we are required to do. I have started by saying that the Constitutional Court has done it again because it is not the first time, because it is already evidence that everything that is decided in the Parliament of Catalonia is systematically buried. As the representative of Podemos commented, my political representatives in Catalonia adopted Law 24/2015 of 29 July 2015 on urgent measures to respond to emergency needs in the field of housing and energy poverty, thus guaranteeing the right of access to basic supplies. Even his fellow members of the People's Party in Catalonia voted in favour of this law. In fact, it was adopted unanimously. Are the Spanish institutions going to overthrow this law as well? We'll wait until May 15th, although I've said it before: prou, don't pass me another one. Because to systematically overthrow basic rights decrees and laws is to have no idea what citizens feel and suffer, these citizens we are obliged to help, protect and offer the necessary tools. Many of you lack a requirement that I personally believe is basic to engage in politics, and it is empathy. Many things fail, not only does the autonomous system fail as Montoro said, many things fail, and perhaps a little empathy would help them improve the negotiations. I say many things fail and politics fail. Neither Catalonia, Spain, nor any country can afford its politicians to fail over and over again. From here I denounce that this government is prohibiting Catalonia from helping itself, when Catalonia has full competence to help itself. Our answer is simple, clear but also decisive and definitive: we will no longer allow the citizens of Catalonia to be unprotected. We are pleased that parliamentary groups are working to reach consensus on measures to deal with emergency situations and we are pleased that they are doing so by drawing inspiration from existing laws that come out of the Parliament of Catalonia and that apply the Generalitat of Catalonia, and we are not going to be the ones to prevent these laws from coming forward, but they will understand that we cannot allow Catalonia to be told from this Congress how we should do things. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. Mr Tardà has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u41	Mr. President. Mr Mayoral, we are surprised and even pissed off; surprised and even pissed off. In fact we knew that we had open fronts with the People's Party, with Citizens and unfortunately also with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, but we never thought we would have to open a front with you, even though I already tell you that we are going to vote in favour Yes, yes. [[Rumors]] Do you know why we're voting in favour? Because we're convinced that you didn't have the will to do what you've done. [[Laughter]] Yeah, because it's inconceivable, inconceivable. Ah, and, of course, because we share the same social justice aspirations that you have embodied in this parliamentary initiative, and this is much more important, but you must acknowledge that you have presented a hunch. Because it cannot be that even the annoyance of introducing into the text on which articles of the Constitution all that they have transmitted and have put into debate here today is supported. Should we interpret that everything you postulates is argued on the basis of the basics of the Constitution: all are basic principles? I believe that this would be fatal, because it would be unaware that the autonomous communities have competences set out in the statutes of autonomy. I ask: in what exercise of competence do they claim this law to be dictated? Should we understand that all the articles in this bill are of a basic nature? Where is respect for statutory competences? So, who pays for all this? You have done the same now that the People's Party normally does: for example, they legislate and the autonomous communities pay. That's how anyone makes laws, isn't it? I invite you to whatever you want and you, if you know I'll pay, can ask for infinity, can't you? Well, we are convinced that this is not going to happen again; we are convinced that it is not going to happen again. We are convinced that you in the parliamentary process will correct, which is why we are going to vote in favour, even though we have expressed our absolute disagreement with this vision that is so Jacobin - so Jacobin - that it would even kill your federalist postulates. We prefer there to be trust from one to another, and in the same way that we will fit your criticisms on the day that we are worthy of them, I think that you should do an exercise of honesty and leftist honesty, recognizing that you will never repeat this chapuza again. But the important thing is also to tell you that everything that you defend we share - and see if we share it, that the United Left, the comrades of the Galego Nationalist Block, the abertzale left and ourselves for years have been defending in this very Parliament what you now claim, and we are also proud that we are more - but not only this, but also the installation of a universal basic income, funds to attack structural poverty, multiple rescue funds and everything that has to do with progressive taxation, those who have the most to pay, taxing the incomes of capital and not those of work. But, look, our position is next. In order for us to generate new fundamental rights, we believe that a constituent process is necessary. This is our thesis. In Catalonia we have the possibility, I do not know if we will succeed, of starting a constituent process that allows us to conquer new subjective rights that are not limited to being as guiding principles in the Constitution, but subjective rights, new fundamental rights, which is why we ask you for help. Because if in Catalonia we have the possibility - let's see if we get it - of starting a constituent process that allows us to conquer new fundamental rights, it is clear that you who are pursuing the same thing for the whole Spanish State, I am convinced that you will help us to make possible and make this constituent process that must culminate in the proclamation of the Republic of Catalonia. Because, of course, the constituent process in the Spanish State is not and is not expected, what is possible is a constitutional reform of the Spanish State, but, unfortunately, it will always be, at least in the coming times, epidemic because Citizens, the People's Party and the Socialist Party have always refused even to contemplate intellectually the possibility of starting a constituent process, of course. In fact, you yourself are also not too much in favour of a constituent process, and I suppose I would do the same instead, because there are objectively no conditions for it. I say this because if we do not start a constituent process it will not be possible, I repeat, to conquer these new fundamental rights because this forces us to start again, to make a reset, and this is not possible if the conditions for a revolution of a democratic nature do not exist or do not exist. I'm not talking about a social revolution, but I'm talking about a democratic revolution. In this regard, in view of the fact that we are perhaps faced with one of the last debates and the last plenary sessions of this parliamentary term, which is apparently going to be dangerous soon, we are going to urge you again not only to support the Catalan sovereignists - and I say sovereignists, I do not say independenceists - in the constitutional process, but also to remind you - that you would certainly be aiming at a Spanish constitutional process - that if in Catalonia we proclaim the Republic as the culmination of this constitutional process, there may be a scenario in which the beginning of a constitutional process of the Spanish State is also possible and then we would be in a position to conquer new fundamental rights. In short, we wish to have the maximum complicity with you, I repeat, we wish to have the maximum complicity with you. What's more, today we eat a frog and we don't care. We ate a frog. We believe that you will appreciate this intercomilated sacrifice made by the Catalan Republicans for the benefit of mutual knowledge, for the benefit of this will for collaboration, for complicity and because I am also convinced that what I am defending is also shared by many Members of your parliamentary group. So we are voting in favour, and in the legislative process we are going to look for ways to define exactly the competences of the General Administration of the State and those of the Autonomous Communities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Yáñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has important problems that we all know of, such as gender-based violence and its terrible consequences, poverty and social exclusion that millions of people suffer, including in families where some of its members also have jobs, the tragedy of evictions or the need to ensure access to health. Our work as legislators is, precisely, the search for real solutions to the real problems of citizens, and I therefore anticipate that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group will not block in this House a serious debate on all these kinds of issues, but, I see, we are talking about real problems of citizens and we must work towards real solutions to those problems, because putting forward inviable and demagogic solutions to such serious problems could end up creating frustration among those who are suffering the consequences of those problems. A technical assessment of this initiative would lead us to criticise the lack of concreteness in basic concepts and definitions, the lack of attention to third-party rights or the absence of an economic memory that explains how to deal with the economic obligations that this law would entail. The matter of sending saving messages and sounding promises without calculating their cost or without explaining how the accounts will be squared misses us less coming from where this bill comes from. It is a coincidence that we have in Europe a recent example of a party that has filled its mouth with unreal promises, a party that is also a friend of those who present this initiative today and, of course, we already know the result of unreal promises when then the accounts are not squared. This bill speaks of health care. Well, in Greece the Government of Syriza has increased health co-payments - it refers to energy poverty - and the Government of his friend Tsipras has tightened the criteria for access to energy bonds. We are told of evictions and the Greek Government, Mr de Podemos, has lowered the criteria for protection against evictions. And older people, his friend Tsipras has raised VAT, raised retirement age and made a wild cut in the pension amounts of Greek pensioners. [[Applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality when promises are made and then the accounts are not squared. We've met her before. That is the reality of demagogy: indiscriminate cuts that end up suffering the weakest, which also generate distrust for institutions and open the door to radicalism in Europe. And if we bring serious situations, we have to do serious analysis. And with this I am also thinking of Mr Tardà, who speaks of a constituent process without realizing that what they are defending is a deconstituent process, that is, they are talking about reforming the Constitution and what their youth are doing on 6 December is burning the Constitution, not reforming it. [[Applauds]] It takes a lot more to reform it. [[Applauds]] Any serious analysis shows that the solutions proposed here sound very good in front of the gallery, but it is not possible to implement them. They clash against evidence such as private property or the principle of legal certainty and therefore it would not be too daring to say that the solutions that Podemos poses are dedicated to creating social frustration. I wonder who wins by implanting frustration among those who are so much suffering the consequences of the crisis; and I go further and wonder what you can gain in that situation. Is it worth winning or counting votes when what you are doing is knitting an angry and angry society that has to end up assuming that its public representatives are unable to build decent solutions to citizens' problems? We have not yet thrown the towel, we are not in that position and we refuse to think that those who do these electoral calculations will end up being right. [[Applauds]] When I say that the solutions that are being proposed here leave much to be desired, I mean, for example, that the text does not clarify who and under what conditions they are in a situation of social emergency. It also creates a legal vacuum by raising the issue of health care only under the premise of repealing Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 without creating a new regulatory framework. And what can we say when we talk about expropriation to the big housing owners in the public interest without determining who the big housing owners are or what you think the public interest is and, above all, they don't explain how you intend to pay for those expropriations! It is not only that, but in some cases they are even short: they limit the housing guarantee of victims of gender-based violence to those cases in which their vulnerable situation comes precisely from that situation of violence. There are some who believe that helping people who have suffered gender-based violence with regard to housing solutions needs to be independent of their economic situation in the process of violence and their overall economic situation. [[Applauds]] Finally, it also raises doubts about basic supplies. We share the obvious need to ensure minimum coverage in the face of the difficulties of any family, as well as a restrictive policy in the cutting of electricity supplies, but we understand that a basis and mechanisms that the proposed law does not establish in order not to fall into frustrations such as those we have already suffered - quite recently, moreover - in which justice ends up squandering the expectations that others have created. We have to be serious, Mr. Churches. Do you see this? [[Show some leaflets with Monopoly tickets]] They're Monopoly tickets, in case I haven't seen them. Let me tell you that we have in the parliamentary group and in our party a few economists who can didactically explain why you and I cannot go to the supermarket and pay with Monopoly tickets. [[Laughter and applause]] Our economists, whom you are constantly disrespectful, can explain to you why the state cannot pay with Monopoly tickets either; and then we turn around and try to explain to you whether the incredible increase in public spending they claim will pay with Monopoly tickets as well. He'll explain it to us whenever he wants. As we said, the solutions we propose must be serious, credible, viable and their cost must be explained and stipulated in the economic memory that you have forgotten in this bill. As I said earlier, this is not a diagnostic problem; in fact, in many cases we share some of the analyses you make. I insist that you are not the sole owner of social sensitivity in this Parliament. This is the discrepancy between those who bring to this Parliament a toast to the sun that end up generating frustrated expectations and those who feel obliged to work to offer citizens real solutions to their problems. [[Applauds]] This is the discrepancy between those who intend to anger people more and those who believe that Spanish people can still be deluded by a project and solutions that allow us to move forward and move forward in our country. Therefore, both in our programme and in the government agreement we have signed with the Socialist Party, Citizens have already tried to put on the table proposals in these areas. The agreement that Mr Iglesias is trying to dynamize on the basis of separatist referendums in different parts of Spain, and that Mr Rajoy - who is not here again - refuses even to read, includes measures of silence such as, for example, a package of 7 billion euros - seriously calculated, that is, to combat social exclusion. In the case of poverty, to which we do not put names - it is poverty -, Citizens has the proposal that the most effective has been shown in countries such as Sweden, the United Kingdom or the United States, the salary supplement, but that the agreement with the Socialist Party also includes a minimum living income for families without resources. This agreement generates solutions to housing problems by offering social rental housing adapted to families who have suffered a eviction or personal rescue plans, especially by making social benefits unfettered. If we are talking about ensuring health care, the agreement for a reformist and progressing government includes coverage for all people living in Spain, for registered migrants and for all minors. Finally, this text is a determined commitment in the fight against the scourge of gender-based violence in our country, tightening the penalties, increasing the budget allocation for those who have to be protected from their aggressors, through personalized judicial support, through the coordination of all administrations and placing the most absolute rejection of gender-based violence on the axis of our country's civil values.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u44	Go ahead and conclude, Mr. Yáñez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u45	I'm done. Serious answers can be given, Mr. Churches, some of us have already done so. The problem is that you went with the hammer pylon from the referendum to the negotiating table and you couldn't find out because only the CNI, the all-powerful vice-president and all those social spheres that interest you so much: Spanish Television, CNI or the Ministry of Defense were resounding in your head. [[Applauds]] In short, we agree with the need to articulate solutions to the real problems of the Spaniards. Therefore, as I said before, our group will not block the consideration of this bill with the aim of opening a serious debate, because Citizens have already demonstrated the ability to sit down to dialogue, to seek concrete measures and to achieve reforms for Spain without saying that not everything or to ask vice-presidents and ministries for nothing social. And it's just that today's situation is contradictory. You're here...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u46	Mr Yáñez, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u47	Twenty seconds. You are here defending a proposal that will continue thanks to the social commitment of Citizens, and we are here admitting that it is possible to have to put this bill in a drawer because you continue to say no to the possibility of forming a government in Spain. If one day, Mr. Iglesias, you want to take a step forward, cross the abyssal distance that separates you from reality and talk about the problems that affect the Spaniards, you and you, Citizens have been waiting for you at the table for months. [[pointing to the right and left of the House]] Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u48	Thank you, Mr Yáñez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mayor, listening to you from the congressional rostrum seems to have been doing so at a campaign event of your party. Here it is not necessary to shout, it is not necessary to take out banners; in this House, in the seat of the sovereignty of the Spanish people it is enough to bring good initiatives, to have worked them, to get the support of the majority, to vote them and to win them. [[Applauds]] Do you also know what is missing so that that law that you bring us here today can be a reality? A government that executes it, which will never be the Rajoy government. [[Applauds]] We agree with you in your analysis of the situation, although I have missed the fact that in that analysis you alluded to the fact that the poverty situation that our country is experiencing today is largely due to Mr Rajoy's Government, as a result of the policies adopted by the right-wing Government. Sometimes you seem more concerned about other things than defeating that Government and criticizing that Government that has caused the poverty situation in our country today. I will not insist on the data, they are chilling, 3 million unemployed without any benefit; 2.5 million children in poverty; almost 2 million families who cannot heat their homes; 750,000 households who have no income. That is what motivates us, the socialists, to propose a change of government, a government that will end the inequality and suffering our country is experiencing as a result of the policies of the People's Party. I told him we agreed on the diagnosis. Criticism, ladies and gentlemen, is much easier than legislation and much easier than governing. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Iglesias and fifty-seven Members of Parliament who sign this initiative are no longer Tertullians on television. You have come to this Congress of Deputies to represent Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]] They must assume that this is no longer going to give headlines, neither totals nor radio cuts, this is going to legislate and, as has been said in this House, this initiative leaves much to be desired. A law is a very serious thing, it affects millions of people. Not only does this law contain formal errors, to which I will refer later, but it also has many fundamental errors. What is most worrying to my parliamentary group is that a law that claims to address the social emergency of our country does not address the causes or put limits on those causes, but patches the consequences. It is not understood, for example, that what has to do with lack of income or lower income is not regulated. That he does not mention shock plans for employment, social protection for the unemployed or a minimum living income. We miss the attention paid to the situation of child poverty or the lack of protection in which dependent people live today. Therefore, what has attracted our attention a priori has been these absences. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not remedy it, and even if this law passes the parliamentary procedure of consideration, it will happen that this law does not even exhaust the deadline for amendments, because if we do not remedy it, if elections are called on 2 May, this law is exhausted, decays and there is no solution to any of the proposals that have been gathered here. [[Applauds]] I enter the content of the law, and start with the title: Law 25 on Social Emergency. It is fine as a holder, but the legislative technique says that the title of a law should refer to what is contained in it; that anyone who reads the title of the law should know what it refers to. Therefore, we must obviate generic expressions, quotes, numbers, etc. But if we go into reading the preamble, we begin to know what you meant by that of Law 25, and that is that you want to develop article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We're still reading the law. Article 1 begins by saying that the purpose of this Act is to establish mechanisms to address the most urgent social emergency needs. With all this and with the extension of Article 25, which has already been read here, bearing in mind that you want to develop the social emergency in our country, we would think that you would address the entire emergency situation. But no, they have remained on only three issues: health care, housing and energy supplies. There are only three issues addressed and, moreover, you do so in an incorrect, biased and ineffective manner. I'm not going to stop at the technique anymore. I am going to give you one last general consideration, which has also been put on the table this afternoon and which is important, which has to do with the economic endowment. You say that this law does not generate an increase in endowments, salaries, or other personnel costs to the public service. In this law, the burden of the management of services falls on the workers of the social services of our country, who would see an increase in the workload. They place on them the full weight of the actions in the field of housing and energy. Shock this with the reality that social services live today in our country and that you seem to be unaware of. The last parliamentary term saw major cuts in what had to do with the agreed plan and the Local Regime Basics Act, which limited these social services and are now in deficit, so they cannot assume any more burden of work if we do not provide them with more means. It is not serious to say that social emergency management can be addressed without putting more means on the table, because that is cheating on citizens. With regard to the right to health, we re-enter its legislative technique. Title one, single article. This article deletes the full article and part of another, article 1, and also of the thirteenth paragraph of article 4 of Royal Decree 16/2012. With this suppression, ladies and gentlemen, you are not recovering universal health, which is what I understand you wanted to do with this law, and you are leaving us in the legal void. Ladies and gentlemen, here you have the proposal for a law to recover the Universal Health System of the Socialist Group, which would serve as the basis for amendments to this law and which is undoubtedly a serious proposal to address and recover universal health. [[Applauds]] As far as housing is concerned, I was also surprised, Mr Mayoral, by the appointments and what you have said that this law contains. I would have liked you to have pointed out in what specific articles of this proposal for a law you have submitted to us, for example, payment or debt restructuring. Simply, they do not appear in the articulation of the law. You have lost an opportunity to reflect in this law the measures you have been doing and saying in different places. But it is even more serious for us that no article of the law recognizes what requirements must be met by evicted persons in order to give effect to the right to housing. You don't say who the beneficiaries are. Therefore, this law is meaningless and cannot be applied to those who need it. As for the housing guarantee for women victims of gender-based violence, they will allow me to speak to them with all the moral authority that belongs to a parliamentary group that promoted the first law, the Comprehensive Law on Combating Gender-Based Violence. [[Applauds]] We believe that the problem of gender-based violence must be addressed globally, not tangentially, as you do by referring only to the possibility of such a housing resource. If it is a matter of keeping the victim away from the abuser, it is not enough just to provide him with housing or housing resources. Gender-based violence has many edges and access to basic housing, without guarantees of care and protection, cannot be an aid to women who suffer from it, even though it must be ensured. I'm done with the power supply. Who pays? Who pays for this? The electrics? Do you really believe that? Do you really think this would be paid for by the electrics? No, this would not be paid by the electrics; we would all pay it on the bill for our consumptions. We believe, in agreement with the objective, that the proposal would be to finance it through the General Budgets of the State, recognizing that this is a social policy and that the purpose is to give guarantees to all those families who have no resources or a way to take care of their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Iglesias and the fifty-seven signatories, this law is going to pass the procedure; we are going to support it, but it may fall in fifteen days and it will not be law because you are not going to support the government that carries it out. And you know why we're gonna support her? Because we vote with you to correct Rajoy's policies, while you vote to keep Rajoy in the chair of La Moncloa. [[Applauds]] That's what happens. That's the difference between you and us. This is what is not understood, Mr. Churches. I understand it's hard for you to explain, but this is what you don't understand. It is not understood that you do not want to join a government of change to not only pass this law 25, as you call it, but to raise the minimum wage, the minimum living income, the protection of the unemployed, to truly attend to the social emergency. I ask you to look - as Mr Mayor said - at those below, who voted for them, because I am sure they would prefer a government and a socialist president to continue Rajoy sitting in La Moncloa. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mrs Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to explain the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the so-called so-called proposal for a social emergency law; a text - coinciding with other speakers - of poor legislative technique, in which the proposers mix a wide variety of subjects without indicating either the rules or the legal framework intended to modify and absolutely lack of proposals that would supplant the existing legislation, in short, a box of tailors which also leaves regulatory gaps. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today is not a proposal for a law, but an electoral programme or, rather, a new performance such as those to which we are accustomed in this Congress in terms of proposals for a law. The only thread of the text is found in the preamble, the so-called social emergency; a preamble in which they show a desolating landscape caused by the financial crisis and capitalist-cut economy. It is obvious to repeat that the crisis caused disastrous consequences for the Spaniards, because that crisis of financial origin resulted in a social economic crisis, a crisis that the People's Party Government had to face. Ladies and gentlemen, in your preamble you are talking about the crisis and the social emergency that has arisen, as if nothing had been done so far. And I ask myself, are you aware that by the time we got to the government, 3.5 million jobs had been destroyed?, that in 2010, the most crucial moment of the crisis, there was no Social Inclusion Plan?, that the accumulated defaults to the third sector, which was dedicated to supporting the most vulnerable, put their work at serious risk?, that pensions were frozen? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, some are new in politics, but that does not mean that new ones can be made. Where and what were you in while this was happening? Perhaps in other things and in other warmer latitudes. Perhaps where human rights are respected, such as Venezuela, where inflation, according to the IMF, is 1.643 %. [[Applauds]] That does make it easier for families to fill the refrigerators. Or perhaps in Ecuador, because here they were with the mortgage-affected platform, but today I read in the press that those affected by the mortgage have gone to the embassy of Ecuador to ask why Mr Esteban Melo and Mr Dora Aguirre, congressmen of the Assembly of Ecuador by Alianza País, the party of President Correa, say that it was not for mere liberalism or for love of art, but for 759,936 euros. [[Applauds]] That's being next to the affected. You come here with your messianic tics and destructive chimeras, saying you fix everything in half an hour, abrogating precisely what has worked. We have worked to close 2015 with 553,000 more members of Social Security and 79,000 more pensioners in the system. Today we are spending EUR 50 billion more on social protection than in 2007, social spending in Spain is over 65% of total public expenditure and 13.8 million people receive a state benefit. Perhaps there are few, perhaps not enough. That we can continue to work, that we must move forward? Yeah, but with unreal measures and no legal fit, no. Title I deals with the protection of health rights, and what they do is repeal Articles 1 and 4, paragraph 13, of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012; a decree that we had to implement because the health debt grew by 173 % between 2009 and 2011, to reach EUR 16 billion, and also to correct a Brussels sanction and the suspension of Community funds for incorrect regulation of health card coverage. Do you know that in Spain until 2012 there were more than 200,000 Spaniards who paid their taxes and did not have health coverage? With what they intend to repeal we gave cover to professionals such as lawyers, engineers or architects, as well as to the unemployed who were excluded and had exhausted the unemployment benefit and who also paid 40% of the medicines. I'm going back to the evidence. Today there are about 800,000 more health cards than in December 2012. Do you intend to repeal them too? Title II deals with the protection of the right to decent and adequate housing, and this is when the proposal becomes a legislative misconception close to the pamphlet. In what rule do they intend to incardinate the ban on evictions? How many articles and what texts do they want to affect? How does its regulation fit with constitutional rights? Are we in the espropie, ladies and gentlemen? What tax and income reduction effects in municipalities, autonomous communities and state by IBI, IRPF, property transfer tax and documented legal acts would your proposal have? It's all an incognito, but how nice and sellable has the text been left to them? Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious, measures have already been taken that have benefited 55,195 families and 17,551 launches have been suspended through the mortgage moratorium. Of course we agree that further progress can be made, but what cannot be done is to promise impossible. Where they govern they promised zero evictions, light and water for all, but ask for example their comrade the mayor of Cadiz, who used the neighbors of the La Bahía corral to get votes and now the neighbors go to the plenary to tell him that neither water, nor light, nor zero evictions, nor anything at all. [[Applauds]] Or ask in Madrid, where they said there were 20,000 solutions and only 100 mediations. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as proposals such as this, which give impetus to the legal order, lead to expropriation, judicialization and payment of taxes for all, we are not going anywhere. In the section entitled Of the housing guarantee of women victims of sexist violence, they restrict the umbrella protection, because in its definition they demand for access to housing - also access to housing is given not only because of economic need but when they need it for their recovery - the need for coexistence and forget the victims of domestic violence. The right recognized in the proposed law would restrict the rights of victims. When dealing with the protection of basic energy supplies, you don't say who the vulnerable groups are, you just make a mention of an income criterion, that is, without specifying. The law seeks to solve a problem that is neither concrete nor quantifiable. Ladies and gentlemen, current legislation does define what the social bonus is; what happens is that you say that the criteria are cumulative, and no, they are not cumulative, they are alternative: the usual housing supplies of less than 3 kilowatts of power or - and not - the family, or - and not - the households with all their members unemployed, or - and not - the retirees with minimum pensions. They assess all supply cuts equally by default, whether or not by social emergency. I should like to inform you that of all the default cuts, more than half of the debt is paid in less than 24 hours and 85% is paid in less than one month. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish the social emergency situation did not exist and, if it did, I wish it would last so little. My group does not question that there are people at risk of social exclusion who must be treated urgently, on the contrary, but we believe that it must always be done within the constitutional order and not outside it. And I am also one of those who see the mills and not the giants, because if we had to accompany them with an economic memory and respect the competitive sphere, the budget would be deorbited for the state, autonomous communities and municipalities. But what does the Constitution and the welfare system that has cost the Spaniards so much work matter to you? They want to boost it and proof are populist proposals like these, without constitutional fit, that promise heaven but cost hell to whoever believes them. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that we express our view against the proposal and we are not the only ones who have done so. The Podemos Group presented a very similar one in the Andalusian Parliament and the Socialist Governing Council expressed its view against it. As you all know, there are no social emergency problems in my land, so I suppose you will have to put an amendment in the text that says that this will not apply to Andalusia because there are 8.4 million Spaniards who are not worthy of this law, because there the Andalusian government borders it and that the risk of poverty and social exclusion is 13.1 points above the whole of Spain is a catastrophic vision of the PP. Now here, we've all heard it, they're going to support it. Here are some criteria and there are others. But, ladies and gentlemen, in politics we are not all prepared to reject principles and values, so not everything is worth it, and to use the most vulnerable with unattainable proposals do not count on my group, because we are not going to open the doors to that Trojan horse wrapped in a cellophane of good intentions. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u52	Thank you, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u53	We turn to the second item on the agenda, on non-legislative proposals, and start with that of the Basque Parliamentary Group, on urgent measures to prevent bankruptcy and the disappearance of the steel sector. [[EAJ-PNV]] Mr Azpiazu has the floor for his presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum on behalf of the Basque Group to demand that the Government be involved and take measures to defend and guarantee the future of the steel sector in the Spanish State. [[Rumors]] It's not okay, gentlemen of the government...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u56	It is not right, gentlemen of the Government - Mr Rajoy and Mr Soria are absent today - to shield themselves that the Government is in office to avoid any responsibility that might arise from the inaction and leniency of this Government. The problems, such as that of the future of the steel sector, are not in place, are present and worsening day by day. The issue was addressed even at the last summit of the European Council, and that is because it is really worrying in Europe. I'm sure Germany, France and others aren't holding hands without doing anything. On the contrary, your Government has sent the matter simply by sending a letter to the Commissioner for Industry, Mrs Benkowska, a letter that was handed to us last week, a letter without force and without compromise. It is not a matter that can be resolved only through diplomatic means, gentlemen of the PP, but it is a problem that needs to be addressed firmly, seriously and urgently. This is what the Basque Government is doing and what we from the Basque Group are asking its Government to do: to act, to act as they should, even if they are in office, because when companies and workers close down, they will not do it in office, they will do it for real, and many of them, unfortunately, forever. That is why, I insist, we demand work and involvement, commitment to the future of the steel sector and that of its workers. With the fall in demand for steel products, resulting from the economic crisis, with a particular impact on the construction sector, the excess capacity is added to it as a result of the increase in the sector's weight in China, which already produces more than half of the world's production: 800 million tonnes per year, 350 million of which are surplus, and many of which are sold in Europe below the cost of production, i.e. by dumping, altering competition and very negatively affecting the present and future of the sector in the European Union. Europe must defend itself against unfair competition. China today is not a market economy to be used and as such it must be treated. The United States defends itself by applying very high tariffs. Of the 166 million tonnes per year produced in the European Union, Germany produces 42, France and Spain 15 million tonnes. Of these 15 million, almost half are produced in Euskadi, employing more than 28,000 people directly and indirectly in the steel and metal industry. A few days ago ArcelorMittal confirmed that the plant of Zumárraga was to be closed: 325 direct jobs and 250 indirect jobs. The compact steel plant in Bizkaia was also recently paralyzed - we hope temporarily -: 350 more direct jobs and so many indirect ones; more than 1,000 affected. It has already suffered from the Basque steel industry since the crisis of 1975. At present, the size is much smaller, more modern and with advanced technology, although investment is also needed in the sector, but it cannot be suffered any more. We have to defend her among all of us so that she doesn't disappear. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the People's Party, internal steps must also be taken to defend the sector, and neither can we expect to do so, but act, especially since the formation of government can be preceded by elections at the end of June and its constitution can be excessively delayed for this purpose. Energy, and above all electricity, is a key input from the sector. Since electricity consumption is intensive, its cost is a direct element that determines competitiveness. The electricity cost of the Spanish State is 33% higher than in France, 27% higher than in Germany and 22% higher than in the European average. Given that the energy cost accounts for between 15% and 20% of the cost of production, while the labour force accounts for 10%, any comment remains. Therefore, it is necessary to relieve the electrical bill. Many measures are possible. In Germany, tax exemptions can reach up to 96 % in the case of electricity. Energy efficiency measures can be implemented: non-electrical costs, such as renewable premiums, annual payments for deficits, extrapenisular costs, etc., can be removed from the bill. These and other measures are in your hands, gentlemen of the Government. Unfortunately, the control of property, increasingly alien and more distant from these companies, is not, but we ask them to act and to do so urgently. Reality so requires, reality is not in function. From the Basque Group we have asked you for information, we have asked the Minister to appear, we have asked you for information in writing... We haven't received any answers. We expect unanimous support for this initiative, which must serve for the Government to defend the steel industry in Europe against Chinese dumping and to take internal measures in the electricity sector to ensure the future, the viability of the sector and its jobs. As regards the amendments tabled by the various groups, I would like to point out that we are going to reject them, not because of their content, which would be acceptable in most cases, but because it disperses and blurs the priority intention, which is to act immediately and forcefully in favour of and in defence of the steel sector. The Group of the European People's Party is, in our view, a reductionist in the measures to be taken; it only proposes energy efficiency policies. It intends not to address legislative changes. We believe that if legislative changes are to be addressed, they are addressed. The amendment of Podemos also limits, which does not make our proposal no law, the measures to be taken, prioritizing only three of them. Why three and not others, gentlemen of Podemos? Let us be open, if we come to an agreement, to the measures that are necessary. Acceptance of the Socialist Group's amendment would delay what is very important to us, which is to act forcefully and immediately, both at European and internal level. To extend it to other sectors of high consumption, as they also propose Democrácia i Llibertat or Citizens, to propose generic support for industry or to request a detailed study, as the Socialist Party does, of the impact of Chinese dumping on the employment of the different States of the European Union, being interesting measures and that we would support if they were presented in other initiatives that were in this direction, they deviate - I insist -, in our opinion, from the focus of what we want, which is to give a clear response to what is now happening in the steel sector of the Spanish State and in particular in the Basque Country. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. I call on Mrs Sánchez, the Joint Parliamentary Group, to defend the amendments tabled in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u58	I've got two minutes, so I'm gonna try to go real fast. We are presented with this non-law proposal, against which we are not and which we are going to vote in favour, but the PNV colleague said it was to act immediately and forcefully on the problem that exists. The first problem is the maintenance of employment and the first thing we have missed is precisely that this is not present in the statement of the non-law proposal. We understand it's a mistake. We have tabled a number of additional amendments and we do not understand how we can want to combat Chinese dumping without recognizing that Mittal and other multinationals that have factories here and also in China are to a large extent the main players in this dumping. There's a lot more we could be saying. That the defence of employment is not called makes us think that, as much as we are talking about issues handled by multinationals, either by electricity or by this sector, we are giving sticks of blindness if we do not complement it with something else. If you want to defend this business fabric, defend first taking into account workers' rights and employment, because they are multinationals that are not doing a good job there at the moment or reinvesting anything and it is their own staff that have managed to lower up to 60 euros each production unit. I believe that this deserves recognition and that it should be reconsidered if it is incorporated, at least explicitly, in order to defend the rights of these workers, which, after all, I believe is the main thing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez. Mr. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u60	Mr President, on behalf of the Forum, I join the initiative of the Basque Group, similar to the one I had the honour of raising last week in the Committee on Industry and Energy on an inescapable matter of state, because the economic and social impact of metallurgical relocation affects direct and indirect workers and their families, but also the populations and communities where the companies that run the risk of disappearing are located, which would lead to the desertification of entire regions. This is something that double alarms us in Asturias, where the PSOE governs, whose president, Javier Fernández, is at the same time the socialist leader of the Council for the Industrial and Energy Transition. Neither in the Principality nor in Ferraz Street is there known a single initiative in defense of these crucial issues for our industry. Many hundreds of thousands of jobs are at risk as a consequence of Chinese dumping, which seriously threatens the steel industry and which also joins the major obstacles to competing in Europe for all our high-intensive industries due to the very high electricity tariff paid in Spain. The European Union is under an urgent obligation to implement measures, tariffs and controls to address unfair prices for steel production from China and therefore there is no bureaucratic parsimony in the reaction. Nor can we expect the essential revision of Spain's energy policy, the result of which, to the detriment of industrial household consumers, began with the socialist tariff of Zapatero and which, eight years later, has not been corrected, with serious deterioration in the competitiveness of the national industry, with a particular impact on Asturias, one of the world's centres for steel, zinc and aluminium metallurgy. We support this non-legislative proposal of the PNV because it accurately reflects the two aspects that threaten the continuity of companies that generate a substantial part of the added value and jobs in Spain and we urge you to transmit to the Basque Government the desirability of explaining to those responsible for the Ministry of Industry in Madrid the serious consequences of their mistakes in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u61	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Mrs. Enbeita.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been saying for a long time that these are not the time for lyric, and neither do they seem to be the time for steel. Dumping is a real and very serious problem, it is true. The cost of electricity makes steel production very high costs and there is overproduction worldwide. But let us not be fooled, in the case of Basque steel, for example, these are not the only reasons why ArcelorMittal is threatening to close the plants of Zumárraga and Sestao. We support the proposal that the PNV brings us today, because we believe that it is necessary to defend the tariffs and the measures necessary to avoid dumping or, of course, to make the necessary changes in the regulation to lower the electricity bill to the steel companies, that is, recognizing that in the crisis of the Basque steel industry there are more problems. ArcelorMittal has made a clear work bet outside the plants of Sestao and Zumárraga. A few years ago he promised an increase in work in Zumárraga that has never been carried out and subcontracting has become a reality in the two plants that now want to close, with which, in some way, it can be said that ArcelorMittal has been betting on something similar to dumping at the expense of its own employees. We therefore urge, of course, the Spanish Government, now in office, that perhaps in the near future it will be working, to assume its share of responsibility. But we also urge the Basque Government, and it must be urged, not to look elsewhere and not just to take over the multinationals' version, but to listen to the people who are going to be unemployed. Finally, we urge those responsible for this in the steel industry to bet and develop measures to promote recycled steel, such as tax subsidies or compulsory use quotas, for example. It is interesting to adopt such measures at local and European level, as today there are indices that ensure that it can be one of the solutions to the steel crisis, apart from being a more sustainable production.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u63	Thank you very much. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Basque Group, we will announce our affirmative vote at the outset. After the oil price war, this war between the prices set by the Gulf countries to try to reduce the effectiveness of the fracking technique in the United States, we are now faced with the other price war, the war that is ending on the prices of steel production. China has opened a race to co-op the market and reduce prices, at what price? At the price of overproduction. This affects the European steel industry in a cruel way over thousands of jobs and directly and indirectly. Overproduction by China; free market, yes, but also reliability between partners. When China aspires to be a reliable partner in the World Trade Organization, it is clear that dumping is an unreliable practice among partners. It is good to remember that in the year 2015 China produced 803.4 million tons of steel, half of the world production, five times more than the production of the European Union, where Germany, France and Spain are the three main producers, in the case of Spain with 15 million tons of production. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for measures to protect against dumping that China is doing, which is dumping under different conditions, under different conditions of social protection and production, in order to face on the global market a planned attack on the European steel industry, which in the Spanish case mainly affects the Basque industry. This is a debate that is taking place in different European countries, and in the United States there is criticism of the lack of an active policy and a very reactive reaction on the part of the European Union and the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker. The second point in the Basque Group's non-legislative proposal refers to the electricity bill, which is 22% more expensive than the EU average. During the years of the People's Party government, with the price of electricity, with electricity, only budgetary policy has been made; with the price of electricity, with electricity, no industrial policy has been made. We will therefore also recover industrial policy with regard to the price of electricity; let us rethink how we tackle the reduction of the energy deficit rigorously, yes, but bearing in mind the importance of an industrial policy that creates jobs in the steel industry but also in small and medium-sized enterprises, and let us also tackle the price of electricity by cleaning up the electricity and gas bill. An invoice which currently also bears the costs of closing the Castor plant, which bears the premiums for renewable energy and which bears the policy of coal. And, ladies and gentlemen, coal policy is not an industrial policy; it is a social policy and a policy of conversion of an important affected sector that requires an approximation of social policy. This invoice also bears the costs of insularity that should be financed directly and not through the gas or electricity bill. In addition, the reduction of the bill should include electro-intensive companies, companies such as Solvay in Martorell or Ercros, which are examples of an industrial energy policy by the People's Party government that directly affects hundreds of jobs, while more appropriate regulation could be perfectly avoided. We have tabled this amendment to include electro-intensive companies in the necessary reduction of the cost of the electricity bill, but Mr Azpiazu, of the proposing group, tells us that this is a misguided and even misguided proposal. Mr Azpiazu, I hope you do not consider us disoriented or misguided in our approach to energy policy because we share the same concerns with you. We're going to vote for your initiative. We hope that you will be able to reconsider your point of view from now on at the time of the vote so that you can also incorporate amendments that are neither out of focus nor misguided. In any case, and in case, together with the Republican Left Group of Catalonia, we will be presenting a non-legislative proposal shortly on the particular issue before us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u65	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current situation of Spanish industry is a cause for concern. In addition, we could talk about the Spanish industry comprising 25 business groups, which means that there are more than 260,000 jobs between direct and indirect jobs that can conflict if we do not take action. Today we are talking about the Basque steel industry because it is the subject of the proposal, but we believe that this has to be extendable to other types of industry, as we can be here every day discussing different particular cases. We really should come to a compromise and discuss it all at once. When we talk about the electro-intensive industries - which are topics that are commented on but in the end no one deepens - we are talking about 11% of the country's energy demand and we are also talking about that the most important factor of production of these companies is energy, in some cases reaching between 10% and 50%. Of course it is necessary to work, we believe that it is necessary for the electrointensive industries not to compromise their competitiveness because the latest model presented not only compromises their competitiveness, but has sometimes directly compromised their viability. This is not the first time, as I have said, that we are talking about this problem here in the House and about energy prices. I would love for the Minister of Industry, Mr Soria, to be here to be able to tell you directly that energy prices are simply unorthodox and I would also like to tell you that neither he nor his team have been able to find any solution to this problem that concerns us, but, as it is not, I hope you will pass it on to me. [[Applauds]] Moreover, when I say that this Government has not achieved any kind of solution in this area of energy, it must be said that it has not even achieved this by being the legislature in which the greatest number of reforms have been undertaken in the electricity sector of this country, even more than in the whole period of recent history of which we are aware. The problems of energy costs are motivated by several causes, but we can simplify them in two. Firstly, the uncertainty of our energy pricing system that prevents any possibility of long-term planning. I do not think anyone can escape that an industry that depends on its energy production needs to plan what those costs are going to be, and the models that have been applied so far have not only not helped this to come forward, but have also defended it or have not allowed that industry to develop. That is why we must tell the People's Party that we are sorry, but that its reforms are not working. [[Applauds]] Secondly, we can talk about a subject which is sometimes quite controversial and which is interruptibility. The criterion has been changed. There has been a shift from a batch distribution with objective criteria to an auction distribution that has not only not addressed the problem, but has also been highly damaging. At the end of the day, energy costs do not affect all companies alike. As you will understand, the electro-intensive industries are much more sensitive to these auctions at more competitive prices, so in the end what is achieved is that the least energy-dependent industries are the only ones that can opt for this type of auction. Today, as I said, we are talking about the Basque steel sector, but it is necessary to commit the whole House because we can have this debate, fragmenting it across all the territories of this country and affecting each of its industries. It would be much more efficient and to thank us for discussing everything at once, for seeking a common solution to the problem of this country's industry, because in the end the objective is that in the face of a similar situation we seek the same solution, and above all that it is not necessary that every day we talk about the same thing if with one time, if there is political will - which sometimes, sincerely, I think there is no - we can resolve it. We can say that the responsibility lies exclusively with energy policy - no one is missed either - and the approaches that have been applied to this day at the end of the day have failed in all its objectives. Given that we share the origin of the proposed law - the sentiment and concerns raised by the Basque Nationalist Party - we believe that it is necessary to expand it, because it is possible to go a step further, it is possible to solve the current deficiencies that our energy model has, it is possible to make a global approach that directly affects the whole industry of this country. That is why we have tabled different amendments and we believe that they should be considered. Although I have been talking to Mr Azpiazu for a long time, it seems to me that you have not considered them, but I hope that throughout the exhibition you will change your thinking and end up accepting them. We will be very pleased with this negotiation. What we include in the first point, sharing - I repeat - the origin of the proposal, is that products from China be required to comply with all the obligations acquired in the Protocol of Accession to the World Trade Organization. That is so, in the event of non-compliance with all the relevant measures to deal with the so-called Chinese dumping, which is pronounced differently depending on who says so. And our second proposal is to take what you have proposed and simply improve it. It is necessary to establish an electricity supply system at a competitive, stable and predictable price, because the keyword is a predictable price.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u67	Mrs. Rodriguez, I'll conclude, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u68	Yeah, one second. We also thought it necessary to table two additional amendments, with which, in broad terms, there is a need for a commitment from the various industrial sectors to ensure that investments promote energy efficiency, reduce polluting emissions, innovation, create the added value of their product and, above all, a transition towards a new energy model. We can discuss here for hours who was to blame for the energy model we have today. We can say it was Zapatero's government...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u69	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u70	Just a second, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u71	A second is a second and not a minute and a half, which is what has exceeded time.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u72	Only 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u73	No, thirty, no; ten.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u74	Okay. We propose a national energy pact. Energy belongs to us all, it is not a political tool that has been misused by the various political parties. We have the hand to get together ten, twenty, two hundred times, those that are necessary; they have the commitment of Citizens, because we are sure that a credible energy model and that it has a development in renewables is possible in this country. And, Mr Azpiazu, I hope you will take our amendments into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u75	For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u76	Eskerrik asko, president jauna. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are dealing with today is extremely complex and of enormous importance to thousands of Basque families, but also to the rest of the state. It is important to make it clear that the steel crisis precedes the first temporary closures of the Basque steelworks. We have been accumulating a huge historical debt to the people and municipalities most linked to the steel industry. In this respect, the measures of the European Union are late and will take time to enter into force and to have the desired effect. We share this concern with the Basque Nationalist Party. We have transmitted it to you from Podemos Euskadi and we are doing it now in parliamentary office. Therefore, our will is to support this non-legislative proposal, but not without pointing out some issues of particular concern to us. If the Basque Nationalist Party wants to protect industry and the Basque company from unfair imports, it must do so every day and must do so consistently. It is the responsibility of the institutions that a group like Mittal, which is known to make their different plants compete with each other, is today in a position to stop production at its Sestao plant, which employs more than 350 people and, at the same time, does not allow anyone to do it. I mean, I don't eat, I don't produce or I don't produce. He said that we called for coherence from the Basque Nationalist Party, especially on a day like today when we are also going to vote on Law 25/2015; a vote that will portray each of the political forces. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to make a small point of something Mr Legarda said. Self-government and the defence of social rights are not in conflict, they go hand in hand and can be defended at the same time; they can be defended and can be worked for at the same time. Therefore, they cannot use one thing as an excuse not to defend the other, because it does not hang. [[Applauds]] I also wanted to ask them to be consistent in Europe and not to vote in favour of TTIP in Europe as they are doing systematically, as it will mean the loss of thousands of jobs in Euskadi and in the rest of the state due to the social, labour and environmental dumping that it carries with it. We must also not reduce the steel crisis to just two factors, as you say, Chinese dumping and the price of energy. It would be a simplistic diagnosis with dire consequences, both economic and political. The steel crisis must be framed in a crisis of global overproduction affecting all countries in the world, including China. In Euskadi, many years have been lost to invest and develop an industrial strategy that would have made our industry more profitable and produce more efficiently and cleaner. Mistakes have been made that have put thousands of jobs, both direct and indirect, at risk with Sestao and Zumárraga as their main victims. We now find hundreds of families who don't know what's going to happen to them and who may not have a livelihood in the next few months. In the case of Sestao, the sale by the Socialist Party of the 10% stakes held by the Basque Government and savings banks in 2011, with a government presided over by the President of this House today, has meant that the Basque institutions have no control or influence over the future of one of the most profitable, efficient and sustainable steelworks in Europe. With regard to Zumárraga, the mistake was the refusal of the Urkullu government to support the investment plan that Mittal presented and which years later -what a coincidence!- presented as its own, letter by letter. Nor can we obviate the high energy prices, which hamper the competitiveness not only of the steel industry but of the entire productive fabric. Here I have to look to the right, because they are the result of a disastrous energy policy of the People's Party. That is why the aim of our amendment is to ensure that the measures taken to lower the price of the electricity bill for the steel sector in particular and for the industrial sector in general are structural in nature. Otherwise, they'll win the usual ones and pay the families. We consider it important to promote renewables applied to industry - we can take as an example the case of Germany, where the cost of electricity is 38% less than in Spain -; the implementation of a plan of savings and efficiency in industry, the great forgotten energy policy - this is very simple: all the energy that is not consumed is not paid and is already -; a revolution that favors self-consumption - yesterday came into force the real decree on self-consumption and today the industry and companies have new and important limitations to reduce their bill through cogeneration - and, finally, an audit of costs and tolls that allows from knowledge and transparency to address a reform of the regulatory framework to establish new costs and prices. In addition, as a geopolitical key, Spain would not be an energy-dependent country, nor would we be financing our oil and gas purchases from regimes that are continuously violating human rights, such as Saudi Arabia. I'm done. We regret the attitude of the Basque Nationalist Party, which has not wanted to enrich or complete this non-legislative proposal with the proposals of other parliamentary groups. In any case, the importance of this issue to Podemos and Podemos Euskadi, as well as the urgency it entails for the families concerned, leads us to vote in favour of his proposal, but it must be made clear to them that both in this House and in the next Basque Government we will be there to ensure that the problem is fully implemented, not only in these families, but also in many more measures that we consider necessary to solve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Alba. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lasarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 15 March, fifteen days later from the only serious attempt in this House to invest a president and form a government of change in Spain, the management of ArcelorMittal informed the workers of the decision to close their factory in Zumárraga, Gipuzkoa. Last Friday, 8 April, the company reported that this decision was final because there is no way to make it competitive in the current market environment by different factors: the overcapacity in the steel industry worldwide, the increase in the levels of imports from countries outside the European Union, in particular from China, the very low steel prices and the high energy cost. On January 21st, we learned of the decision of the same company to make an indefinite temporary stop at the factory Steelia Compacta of Bizkaia, ACB, of Sestao and also closes the threat of an ERE in the plant of Reunited Tubes, in Amurrio, Álava. Those closures are going to directly affect more than a thousand families. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you may think that the best industrial policy is the one that does not exist, and that is exactly what has made the current government in office do nothing. Not doing anything or at least not doing enough for the maintenance, strengthening and development of the industry in Spain. In December 2013, the Chairman of the Steel Sustainability Association appeared in the Industry Committee and issued a dramatic message on the situation of the sector and the risks to its future and viability. The Government has done nothing and we are seeing the consequences of that inaction. It is true that some other autonomous government should have done things that it did not do, but the cost of inactivity or incapacity of governments is always paid by the most vulnerable, in this case the workers. Of the four factors that ArcelorMittal brought to the closure of its Zumárraga plant, some are imponderable on the free market, but others are not. The European Union can and must safeguard its industry, which is key to the economic development of the European area. One thing is the defense of free competition and another is all good, and not all good. The European Union must activate its anti-dumping mechanisms, as it does, for example, against unfair labour and environmental dumping practices which do not meet the required parameters and which alter free competition to the detriment of European industry, and must act in defence of its productive fabric. But there is another determining factor for the viability of steel companies, the price of energy, in which governments can influence. The cost of energy in Spain is very high. Large energy-consuming industries have electricity prices 22% above the European average. Energy accounts for around 20% of its production costs in very intensive industries - 15-20 % or 20-25 % earlier - and I would like to recall that the current Energy Law is from 2013, approved by the PP government with the support of the Basque Group, PNV. Look at you, with your hand tied behind your back, it's very difficult to run. [[Rumors]] Yes, Mikel, it is; you supported the law. The sector has asked for measures for competitive electricity costs with concrete proposals. Minister of Industry in office, you should analyse them and put them into operation. As we speak here and speak and adopt proposals for the next Government, which nobody knows when to date, the economic reality is inexorable. Every day we see news that produces despondency, indignation and anger: closures of plants and layoffs of workers; reductions of staff to optimize profits; relocations for economic reasons; wage cuts for workers; despair and dismantling of a significant part of the Spanish industry. At the same time, we wake up with millionaire bonus distributions between management teams for departures to the Stock Exchange or for increases in profits, sometimes after downsizing, or because they leave the company, and, in addition, with lower tax cost for the last-minute tax reduction of the People's Party government. I see a thousand families unemployed and with a black future, and I read that some manager takes more than 20 million euros when he's thrown out or he's gone. And I find it outrageous. These abuses and the loss of collective moral concepts must be publicly denounced. Ladies and gentlemen, things can and must be changed. With regard to the GNP presented by the Basque Group, I must say that the Socialist Group is going to vote in favour of it, despite the insensitivity of the PNV towards immediate measures that my group is putting forward in favour of the workers and the regions concerned. Much talk about social sensitivities and when specific cases of fired Basque workers are presented they do not accept those amendments tabled by our group. My group has tabled an additional amendment calling on the Spanish Government to defend a position contrary to the automatic recognition of China by the European Union as a market economy, as well as to demand a sector-by-sector impact study in terms of the use of such recognition. We also call for regulatory changes to change the access to the electricity market of large energy consumers to ensure their future, in particular those in the steel sector. Finally, the Government, in agreement with the autonomous communities and economic and social actors, should develop a plan to support the industrial sector, as well as the articulation of support measures to improve the innovation and productivity of that industry, and training and retraining plans for workers affected by regulatory or closure files.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u79	Mr. Lasarte, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u80	I'm done, President. In addition, plans for economic and social dynamism for the regions affected by the steel crisis should be addressed. We believe that these proposals enrich the PNV proposal and give it more content. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u81	Thank you, Mr. Lasarte. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, as has already been said here this afternoon, is the second largest producer of steel, after China, with an average production of 170 million tonnes of crude steel per year, being world leaders in the technologically specialized product segment. [[The lady]] In our country this is a strategic sector for the economy and employment. And I say in this country because a lot has been said here about the Basque Country, but I, who am Asturian, also want to talk about the sector in the Principality of Asturias, which also generates a lot of economic growth and a lot of employment. However, China, with surplus production, which is currently estimated at 350 million tonnes, is engaged in unfair trade practices that distort world competition conditions. Faced with these practices, the European Union needs to act decisively. This is what the Spanish Government has demanded, in addition to the letter sent to the European Commission in February this year. In the defence of Spain and the Spanish, the government of Mariano Rajoy, a spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, is not in office. The same position was maintained at the European Union Competitiveness Council in February, where clear, robust and rapid measures were required against imports at prices below their cost. In addition, with the same objective of defending the interests of the Spanish economy and in relation to China's possible recognition as a market economy at the end of 2016, the Government has defended before the European Commission the need to carry out in advance a thorough study of the impact of this decision on employment in the Union and, in any event, to ensure that trade defence instruments can continue to be used effectively in the event that China is finally recognised as such. That is to say, the Government, in these months, in the defence of Spain and the Spanish steel sector, has not been in office. With regard to the second part of the non-law proposal, we would like to recall the commitment of the People's Party Government throughout the legislature to make the energy system more competitive, safer and more sustainable. By the end of 2011, like the rest of the markets, systems and administrations, energy systems were in deficit. The accumulated debt to the sector exceeded 27 billion, and this despite the unorthodox price increases, which in the period 2004-2011, for an average consumer, amounted to 67,1 %. And that, speakers, including that of the Socialist Party, we continue to live through right now, and much of the difference that exists right now in prices for the industrial sector is caused by this disastrous energy policy carried out by the Socialist Party. If the necessary reforms had not been made, prices would now be 42% higher than the prices of the countries referred to here. In the face of this, measures have been taken to prolong the consequences that the harmful energy policy has had for consumers and above all the loss of competitiveness for our companies. We have achieved a realignment in prices, and serve as an example of the reduction in the wholesale market by more than 30 % in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the same period of the previous year. At the same time, regulatory and financial stability has been achieved for the electricity system and the tariff deficit has been brought to an end. A government must ensure that all users bear the costs and, at the same time, ensure that the system does not go into deficit. Citizens, you come here today to talk about energy policy. Can you tell us whether the closure of nuclear power and the exclusive use of renewable energy in 2050 can guarantee these two objectives: competitive prices and the absence of a tariff deficit? Because it's one thing to talk and it's another thing to manage. Precisely, Mariano Rajoy's Government, while fulfilling this dual objective, has taken into account the special circumstances of the electro-intensive companies, and to this end, in addition to a new system for the management of the demand for interruptibility, the Government has put in place other measures, such as the 85% reduction in the tax base of the excise duty on electricity and the reduction in toll costs. Ladies and gentlemen, the work done on energy has been a lot and with results already visible to families and businesses; and I say families and businesses because today, with this non-legislative proposal, we intend to adopt the necessary regulatory changes to substantially reduce the electricity bill paid by steel companies, and hence the amendment we are submitting to this second point. If the steel companies don't pay for it, who pays for it? Do households pay for it? Do SMEs pay for it? Are pensioners paying for it? Do the self-employed pay for it? In what percentage are these costs going to be borne by each of these groups? Because whenever there is talk of a tariff reduction to the electrointensive companies you never say who will bear the increase resulting from that decrease.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u83	Mrs. Lopez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u84	I'm finishing up, Madam President. That is why we have tabled this amendment and, if it is not accepted, we will ask the proposing group to vote on points. We in the People's Party are concerned about all users of the system, especially families, pensioners, SMEs, self-employed and large businesses. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by stressing the commitment of the People's Party Government to the steel sector, a sector which in our country - and I say in our country - Spain has been and is a source of economic growth and job creation, and that commitment is materialized in its defence at the internal level and in its defence at the European level with a clear and strong position in the face of the unfair behaviour of China and other countries, because I believe that in the non-law proposal they have forgotten another country that is dumping, which is Russia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez Ares. Mr Capdevila is speaking on a position-setting basis by the Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Without prejudice to the fact that Catalonia is already planning its own energy model and that the Government has received the mandate of the Parliament to draw up a national energy transition plan and that it is a model based on renewable energy, self-supply, savings, efficiency, containment and a decentralised production model, we have no choice but to show our sympathy and support - and with them our affirmative vote, without amendments - for the PNL presented by the Basque Group. In this PNL, the two main causes that can lead the steel sector to genuine implosion are perfectly defined: an exogenous one, such as the dumping of Chinese producers, which has already been described, and an endogenous one, such as the deorbited costs of energy on the Spanish market, which reduce the margins in such a way that only some product can come out of the market with guarantees of competitiveness. [[EAJ-PNV]] The Spanish state has the most expensive light bill in all of continental Europe, while light companies get astronomical benefits, and this not only affects individuals as consumers, but also affects companies, their performance accounts, their competitiveness. Innumerable are the direct and indirect jobs that are at risk because of the suicidal energy policies that benefit only the large corporations managing the energy oligopoly and, by the way, the known users of the no less known revolving doors. As has been said, the problem of energy costs affects not only the steel industry, but the whole electro-intensive industry. He commented as innumerable the jobs that run the risk of disappearing, but they will allow me to propose a particular case that does have numbers: 300. Ladies and gentlemen, 300 jobs are direct, qualified, stable, remunerated as they are paid in industry, which are in danger of disappearing in Solvay in Martorell. [[Solvin]] The case is that the litigation courts will, I am afraid, settle too late, the dispute over a questionable breach of the interruptibility contract. In the end, it will be the price of the energy consumed by that plant that will determine its viability. I don't know what television news is left of this Government in office, but the case is worth it. When I wrote my speech I put: Minister... [[looking at the minister's seat, which is absent]] Now I don't know where to go. What's my camera? [[Laughter]] Minister, the case deserves to be exhausted every minute and every chance, because waiting for the next government, whatever it may be, may only serve to issue death certificate on the matter, and behind each of those 300 I mentioned to you there is not a number but a person, as you know. To this end, and with this intention, as the honourable colleague by Girona announced, we will shortly present a non-legislative proposal with proposals for a solution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u87	Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Azpiazu, do you accept or reject the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u88	As they are written, we reject them.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u89	He rejects them all. All right, Mr. Azpiazu. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on criteria for the reform of the system of financing of the Autonomous Communities of the Common System and Communities with a status. [[LORD BALDOVI, LORD BATALLER, LORD CANDELA AND LORD SORLI]] [[File number 162/000147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u90	We move on to the debate on the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group on criteria for the reform of the system of financing of the autonomous communities of common system and cities with status. [[Mr Baldoví, Mr Bataller, Mr Candela and Mrs Sorlí]] For the presentation of the initiative and its defence, Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum with a mood that oscillates between the goat and the discouragement; the goat and the discouragement because today we will see that many of the initiatives that are going to be adopted are going to have a short tour and I believe that we are missing a historic opportunity to change many things in this Parliament, especially for those for whom we saw what the previous Parliament was like. Two preliminary considerations. The first is that I wouldn't want anyone to think: The Valencian is already there talking about his thing. No, ladies and gentlemen, I am not talking about my own or, rather, I am not talking only about my own, I am talking about our own, about everyone's, about a reform of the system of financing the autonomous communities of the common system that has not yet been done. The second consideration is that this non-law proposal on the reform of the financing system of the Autonomous Communities, which we have signed all the members of that Valencian parliamentary group that could not be because someone did not want, should not be discussing today if Mr Montoro and the People's Party had done their duties. They have been critical of the 2009 model, which we do not share, of course. They committed themselves to reforming it. I remind you that there were statements from him saying that after the municipal and autonomous elections he would be approached. You also said at parliamentary level that they had not had time, and that they had had an absolute majority; a system that should have entered into force by 2015. But speakers from the People's Party come up to this rostrum and sometimes - I think with a lot of defach - they criticize the 2009 model as deficient or very deficient, but for four years - I insist, with an absolute majority - they have done absolutely nothing. And then they tell us that you are the serious and responsible party. The current funding system is defined by many experts and also by non-experts as a dark, incomprehensible and inefficient system. And since Compromís we would add: insolidary, unjust, deeply unjust, and therefore unconstitutional. It punishes with infra-financing per inhabitant many autonomous communities, not only Valencia, also Murcia, the Canary Islands, Catalonia and many more. A proof of the unfairness of this system gives us an eloquent figure: the per capita income in 2014 of the Autonomous Community of Valencia was 2,200 euros, while many or some communities of common system were above 3,000 euros and those of outside regime was no more than 5,000 euros. That is to say, for a level of homogenous competence, funding is absolutely uneven, and this causes per capita expenditure on education and health to be clearly below, which means flatly and flatly that Valencians and Valencians have more difficulty than others in having the same benefits on education, health or social services. Besides, our case is unique in the state. We are a poor autonomous community -12 points below the average GDP of the autonomous communities - with a per capita funding below the average and above that we are born payers. This funding deficit largely explains the unusual debt accumulated in these glorious years of PP government. Let us remember: in 1995, with Eduardo Zaplana, they owed 2.5 billion; in 2015, twenty years later, with Mr Fabra, 40 billion euros. This debt should be adequately treated by the next Government. Therefore, as long as nothing is done, as long as this system is maintained, concepts such as sufficiency, equity and inter-territorial solidarity are absolutely empty concepts and, therefore, a profound reform is urgently needed to solve these dysfunctions that have been known for many years. I remember that Mr. Montoro said to us: Yes, we had time, what we didn't have was money; but yes, it was known, what happens is that it hasn't been approached. [[The Lord]] Last February there was a historic meeting, attended by all the Valencian Members and Senators, except a senator, who had more urgent things to do in the hairdressing industry. We all met to demand a new funding model and there was a document from the experts with significant data explaining what it has been these years - that is, the past - but where twelve principles were addressed that would have to be met in a new balanced and stable system: autonomy of income and expenditure, horizontal equity, solidarity, fiscal responsibility of the autonomous communities vis-à-vis their citizens, sufficiency that would allow the distribution of revenue sources among administrations, guarantee of well-being, stability, financial sustainability, institutional loyalty, simplicity of the model and transparency based on the provision of information, evaluation of results and accountability. These are reasonable principles of common sense which are contained in our GNP and also in the amendment tabled to us by the Socialist Party, which we are going to accept, sacrificing some important concepts for us, but in the interests of a broad consensus on this initiative, it will be adopted and this problem will be addressed once and for all. Therefore, we insist, we will accept the Socialist Party's amendment, but not that of Citizens, although we believe that we can agree on some of its points. We will accept that of the Socialist Party. I'm done. We hope that the Government, this Government, which is in office - and it seems that it will remain in office beyond the summer - will immediately address all this work, open once and for all the problem, because all the work that is now being done will be advanced work that can serve the new Government. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of our initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr De la Torre has the floor, first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u93	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the plenary of this House, through this non-legislative proposal, arrives an important issue, the debate on autonomous financing; that is, the debate on the financing of some of the essential services of the welfare state: health, education and social services. This debate is fundamental for our parliamentary group for two reasons: because social rights are only effective insofar as they are adequately funded and because all Spaniards must have the right to compulsory education and to free and quality public health, live where they live. For this it is absolutely essential to have a reasonable and adequate funding system. This is simply not the case at the moment, because the differences in funding between the autonomous communities are scandalous, the financing system is not equitable and it is also dark and has some differences that are simply unacceptable. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u95	In addition to all this, this funding system - this under-financing -, insofar as it is dark and untransparent, has been used as an excuse to carry out an absolutely uncontrolled management of public expenditure, to breach the duty of every Government to carry out proper management. Recently, at Mr Montoro's appearance on the Committee on Finance, we have seen that fourteen letters had been sent to various autonomous communities for failing to meet the deficit. Not only are we faced with a situation where the system is unfair, where there is a very poor management of public funds by multiple administrations - in fact, the fantastic, propagandistic idea that the People's Party properly manages public finances is that, a propaganda myth - but we are also encountering a threat to the overall sustainability of our public finances. In view of this, the central Government has not acted with the example. It has not acted with the example in the fight against fraud trying to combat it with a fiscal amnesty; it has not acted with exemplary exemplary in the fight against corruption by shielding Rita Barberá in the Senate and has not acted with exemplary in the control of public finances because Social Security, as my colleague Saul previously explained, is in a regrettable situation and has not wanted to fix itself - it has shifted all the burden to the autonomous communities -; because the autonomous communities should have been set a deficit target in a reasonable, objective and transparent way, and especially because it has been maintained for many years by many autonomous communities in a situation of under-financing. This has been used as an excuse for looting and corruption. One of these obvious cases is, of course, the Valencian Community - not the only one - where there is clearly less funding than it should be, but this has been used as an excuse by the autonomous administrations, both of the People's Party and the following, for a very poor management of public funds and as an excuse sometimes to justify looting or waste and airports without planes and empty pavilions. [[Applauds]] We have a deficit without control and we have a government without control. The good economic management of the People's Party sadly is that, a propaganda myth. We believe that the time has come - it has come a long time ago, but it is now absolutely indefatigable - to initiate a reform of the system of autonomous financing, because there is no equality in citizens' access to public services and so that there is financial autonomy, which has now been denied with these fourteen letters that the Ministry of Finance has directed after having done nothing to control autonomous finances and to ensure that there is accountability. Our amendments seek, in the first place, a more transparent system and, in the second place, not to generalize the theme of the concert, because the differences between the outside and the common system communities are more than 80% and the 17 autonomous communities cannot be overfunded by 80%. We can't fight math. Nor can we fight mathematics by spending 60 billion euros more than we don't have. For those reasons we have amended. And the Socialist Party's amendments are quite similar, they are also in line with the government agreement that we have signed with the Socialist Party. To the extent that these amendments can be accepted, we will vote in favour and deal with this non-legislative proposal because, in fact, we believe that it is urgent to fix a financing system that is a disaster. Let me conclude with an issue that I believe is fundamental. This non-legislative proposal has some flaws but addresses a very relevant issue: the problem we have with a financing system that is disastrous and a management of some territorial administrations that has not only been disastrous but has been corrupt. But all this, if the extremes on one side of the House continue to block the formation of a government, cannot be addressed. Like all attempts to solve citizens' problems, next May 2nd this will be like a failure, like tears in the rain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u96	Thank you, Mr. De la Torre. Mr López Milla has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, the Government in office of the People's Party, of which you are a member, in a time of discount and flight from the control of this House, has launched a furious attack on the political and financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, an attack driven by the centralist obsession of their leaders and sheltered in the dogmas of suicide austerity that the Rajoy Government has tried to impose with the excuse of the crisis. It is enough, Minister, of threatening letters sent with the sole aim of trying to recover some of the much-lost credibility of the European institutions. It is already well, Minister, of sectarian decisions against elected autonomous governments only a few months ago that they are having to face the burden they have received from the previous governments of the People's Party, which you deal with so laxly. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the People's Party Government has been trying for years to stifle the autonomous communities by imposing much more demanding deficit levels on them than it was on its own. It has put much higher standards on them to make it impossible for them to jump, to present them as non-compliant, to unload on them the responsibilities of their failure to reduce the deficit and to leave a gap in public accounts that would allow the Spanish Government to make an electoral tax reform, aimed at filling the taxpayers' pockets with a higher income. The Rajoy Government, to which Mr Montoro belongs, has reserved the widest side of the funnel to make its tax reform, while leaving the narrowest side of the funnel for the autonomous communities, i.e. for health, education or attention to dependence. It has lent them money, it is true that it has lent them money, money they have to pay back, money that has triggered their indebtedness, money that it has given them in exchange for requiring them to comply with a catalogue of conditions designed to try to subject them to their ideological postulates. That is why it was lent instead of being delivered through the autonomous financing system, which would have ensured the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities. The government to which Mr Montoro belongs has been criticising the model of autonomous financing for almost as many years as those that have been refusing to change it, repeatedly failing to review it every five years, as established by the rule that regulates it. That's what the law itself says. In 2014, the Minister announced that he would change the autonomous funding. In fact, a working group was set up within the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. It was formed two years ago. That working group only met a couple of times because shortly afterwards the minister himself said that the political climate was irregular and paralyzed everything. Perhaps he paralyzed him because he discovered that he had to look for a hole in the public accounts to make that tax reform that he had in mind, the tax reform for the benefit of the minority that the People's Party favors with tax amnesties and tax changes. Mr Baldoví, in our amendment, the amendment we have tabled, we urge the Government of Spain to urgently reform the financing model; to ensure the adequacy of resources for the exercise of the competences of the autonomous communities; to correct the imbalances that may have occurred during the implementation of the model that is still in force, because the law itself which regulates it says that deficiencies must be corrected by five years; and to compensate, as established by the Lofca, for those communities which have been affected by recurrent income shortfalls, such as the Valencian Community, the only autonomy, as you have said, which has a per capita income below the average and, however, contributes to public spending policies in Spain as if its per capita income were far above the average. A community whose government, which now presides over Ximo Puig, spends below the average and nevertheless incurs high deficits. This is because it is affected by a problem of insufficient income suffered by almost all the autonomous communities, but that in the Valencian Community it is much more serious, much more serious by the levels it reaches, because it is a deficit of a structural nature. It is true that over two decades the successive governments of the People's Party, the Valencian governments, spent a lot of money that they did not have in what was less needed. It is true that they spent it on big events as ruinous as ephemerals that ended up serving many times as an incubator for waste and corruption. The debts they have left, the debts that now weigh on the public coffers of the Valencian Community, the result of an abominable management, must not be mixed with the debts that have generated the lack of resources of the autonomous financing system; those debts are to which you refer in your GNP and are the debts to which we also refer in our amendment. One amendment, that of the Socialist Group, which does what it finally does, is to underline the need to ensure the viability of the public services offered by the autonomous communities, to ensure their viability in accordance with the principles of equality, solidarity and financial sufficiency, and the Government of Spain has an obligation to ensure that viability, to guarantee it without threats and sectarian action. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u98	Thank you, Mr. López Milla. It is now the turn of positions, and the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu, intervenes in the first place. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking briefly from the seat to set out the position of the Basque Parliamentary Group on this initiative. Mr Baldoví, as you well know and as is customary in the Basque Parliamentary Group, I will not go into the debate or the detail of your proposal; we do so out of respect for those communities of common system whose funding model is that of the Lofca. As you are well aware, in the Basque Autonomous Community and in the Foral Community of Navarre, the economic concert scheme and that of the Convention, respectively, are the applicable schemes, the roots and models of which are completely different. I have no doubt that a new Government will have to deal with the change in the funding model of the autonomous communities. The economic crisis, the change in political priorities, the cost of public services and a long period of time require a review not only of spending priorities but also of the revenue and financing model that would bring the model of public services and public investment into line with the resources needed to do so. And, of course, the precise fiscal and social economic-financial criteria must be agreed; that is what logic and policy points to. That is the spirit of Mr Baldoví's non-legislative proposal on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. It seems reasonable to us that the need for a revision of the model of the autonomous communities of common system should be raised, but following our custom of strict respect and non-intermission, we shall abstain from voting on this initiative. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Bel has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u101	Thank you very much, President. The question would be: should a system of funding for the expired Autonomous Communities be modified? Obviously. Should an absolutely inadequate, poor funding system be modified and should never have started to apply to the Autonomous Communities? Obviously the answer is yes. Under these premises a GNP with very generic agreements is obviously difficult to vote against, but for us, for the Catalan Group, and I also dare to speak on behalf of the entire Autonomous Community of Catalonia, it is an absolutely insufficient GNP in its resolution. It is insufficient because it is generic, but the amendment is still more insufficient, and in our group we have come to think until we abstain, but obviously we will give them support. We will give them support, although this does not solve anything to Catalonia. Catalonia has other problems, it has the problem of the financing system obviously, but it has a previous problem, a historical problem, the problem of the lack of institutional loyalty on the part of the State. The funding system was bad and it is bad, but it has also repeatedly failed. This funding system, which we recall was approved by the Socialist Party and implemented by the People's Party, was bad in origin and bad in implementation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u102	Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u103	He spoke of the lack of institutional loyalty on the part of the State in the implementation of this funding system and of many laws that have an impact on the financing of Catalonia and obviously of the Valencian Community and other autonomous communities. Today we could remind them of constant breaches. Today we could remind them of their sick obsession, if I may, by preventing Catalonia from managing 0.7% of the IRPF; the non-compliance with the funding of the Unit Act; their obsession with prohibiting the application of new taxes by the Government of Catalonia as a bank deposit and so we could make a huge list of serious non-compliances. The problem in Catalonia is this and I say it to all political groups, I say it to the People's Party, but I must also say it to the Socialist Party. With regard to the amendment that we will end up adopting, I found some oblivions that I understand should not be random because, of course, the Socialist Party approved at that time - it was the Spanish State's saving table - a document that you will remember, the Granada document, that document which was a federal State proposal for the whole of Spain and in which all the nations that make up it had to find comfort. This document spoke of a principle; a principle which we do not find today in its motion for a resolution, which was basic at that time - it was true that it did not establish it as compulsory, but it was advisable - and that it stated that those who contribute in net terms should not be disadvantaged in the ordinality with regard to their contributions. The reality is this. Today you do not establish as a basic principle for a reform of the system of financing the autonomous communities that those autonomous communities that contribute in relative terms are not harmed in relation to those communities that benefit. We would understand that this would have been a gesture of goodwill, even if you repeatedly failed to comply with the funding systems you have approved. However, we will not be the ones to make it difficult for the law to be complied with, because, of course, you comply with the law when you are interested. I have told Mr Montoro on several occasions that we approved the Budget Stability Act because it established a clear system of allocation of deficit targets between the autonomous communities, the state and local corporations. Today this system has not been implemented. Deficit target-setting systems are also called for to be clear, transparent and concrete. In fact, if we apply the first additional provision of the Financial Sustainability Act they are already; the problem is once again that the State does not comply and these do not apply. In any case, my group is going to vote in favour of an initiative that seems absolutely inadequate to you, but let us hope that it will have a better track record than all those that have been approved over the last 30 years in this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs Capella.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u105	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Why should we believe that by passing this non-law proposal on a new funding system this will become a reality? I suppose they will allow me to ask rhetorical questions full of skepticism in view of the fact that the majority of Catalan citizens have already passed the phase of autonomy and are for other things; the same scepticism that Minister Montoro provoked us last Friday, April 8, when he announced the creation of a technical commission to lay the foundations for a new system of financing the autonomous communities. It is really surprising that a minister in office acting as if he were a holder makes this announcement, because, as was said, this revision of the financing system comes two years late, since it was in 2014, and also after innumerable breaches of the financing system agreed with Catalonia, whose non-compliance occurred the day after the agreement was signed. A repeated non-compliance that occurs year after year, because it is non-compliance to carry out settlements down in relation to the advances on account of the transfers, about one billion annually, and specifically for the year 2014 were about 1.4 billion less. It is also non-compliance when there is an increase in the collection resulting from the increase in VAT, part of this tax transferred to Catalonia, where it has probably been collected more, and its payment is deferred for two years later. It corresponded to 2014 and the payment is made in 2016. Meanwhile Catalonia needs to go to extraordinary means of financing, such as the FLA, for which until last year interest was paid. In other words, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain does business with the money of Catalans and Catalans, but also with that of the citizens of the Valencià Country and of the Illes. These breaches affect not the territories, physical and geographical space, but the persons living in them; the public services to which children, young people, women, men, the elderly - health, education, social services, the Unit Act, equality policies, gender policies -; essential public services to which citizens are entitled and which, by this procedure, the Government of the Spanish State and the Minister of Finance as a material author fail. It violates the law and violates fundamental rights. I point out this issue because you, gentlemen of the People's Party, are filled with law enforcement, with the rule of law when you speak of Catalonia and point to Catalonia. Look in the mirror and apply the story. If we add to all the above an unfair distribution and according to social expenditure in the objectives of the deficit by Minister Montoro, injustice is served. [[Rumors]] The non-legislative proposal put forward by Compromís is late as far as Catalonia is concerned for obvious reasons and on which I am not going to expose myself. The citizens of Catalonia have begun a process that has its faithful reflection on the clearly independent composition of the Parliament of Catalonia, which works for and for a constituent process to end up proclaiming the Catalan Republic. [[Rumors]] It is no longer going to negotiate or lay the foundations for a new funding system. It is more than likely that this non-legislative proposal will be passed and that its course will be exhausted in its own approval. [[Rumors]] The position of Republican Left is not going to be other than solidarity with the different nations...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u106	Wait a minute, Mrs. Capella. I know they are not going to make them disappear, but I would ask them to reduce the volume of their talks so that it is not so difficult for them to intervene from this rostrum who is currently speaking. Therefore, reduce the volume, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u107	Mr President, I shall conclude. The position of Esquerra Republicana is going to be nothing but solidarity with the different nations that cohabit in the Spanish state and defend them, as we did last week with the modification of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencià Country, which established a new system of financing. We will not hinder this process and we will continue to denounce tax evasion and underfunding. It is evident that Esquerra Republicana defends and will continue to defend all the parts and territories of the Catalan Countries: País Valencià, les Illes and the Principality. It is for the citizenship of these territories that Esquerra will vote favorably and will continue to denounce until the last day that we are in this Parliament the fiscal expoliation that we suffer from the Catalan Countries, from Salses to Guardamar and from Fraga to Maó - until recently Esquerra Republicana defended in solitary to the Valencià Country, to the Illes and to the Principality and at the moment we are a few more; since the last legislature, with the arrival of Compromís, it was so -, in the understanding that this proposal not of law, as far as Catalonia is concerned, exhausts all its journey in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Capella. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u109	Mr President, making hierarchies about the importance of political debates is not easy, but if there is a particularly well-being-related issue that is the question of autonomous financing, since self-government manages much of the public services closest to our daily lives. However, to focus on this issue on the basis of a strange idea of equality we think that it is wrong and is uncomparable with the objective reality of the Spanish State, the distribution of power within it, the starting position of each territory within it and the role played by the different autonomous nations and communities in the economy of the State; and, as we have learned from feminism, to treat equal to those who have different conditions usually leads to more inequality. Since En Marea, when we talk about a constituent process to decide everything, we also refer to deciding everything about economy and what criteria resources are redistributed within the Spanish State. Although we are talking about figures, it is also time to talk about letters, the time to talk about the guiding principles on which economic redistribution will be based. That is why we welcome this initiative that opens up a field to see if it is possible to share a horizon despite different interests and for that we invite to move forward on proposals that we understand fair to all. To talk about that justice from En Marea we need to talk about our concrete reality. Galicia has a territory where there are more than half the population of the entire State. Of the 46,606 population centres throughout the Spanish State, 27,312 are in Galicia. Dispersion means that in many cases more resources are needed to provide the same service to citizens. A clear example, we have thousands of boys and girls in scattered villages and nuclei that go to school every day - we have that mania of compulsory education - and to fulfill the same compulsory service the cost is very different in terms of transportation, teacher or school dining. We also have a completely reversed population pyramid, with few boys and girls and an ageing population, which means we need more resources for health or dependency. Moreover, there would also be much to say about fiscal balances and the territorialization of spending and investment. Another example, the factory of PSA Citroën de Vigo is one of the largest car factories in peninsular territory. Where's your tax office? In Madrid. Another example. There are thousands of Galicians emigrated to Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao, and it is very common for after a lifetime working in these cities to return to Galicia at the time of retirement. How is this accounted for? In their productive phase they accounted for in one territory and when they entail a greater expense for the Public Treasury because of their need for more services they count in another, and we assume they are entitled to fair services. [[Rumors]] As you can see, we are talking about a reality in which ultimately they end up paying double the Galicians and the Galicians of the common, those who don't have to pay for private health, those who don't have to take care of their elders...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u110	Wait a minute, Mrs. Fernández. It is very uncomfortable to intervene from this rostrum with the volume of noise that is currently in the House. Please understand and respect those who have the floor at this time. [[Applauds]] Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u111	As I was saying, I suppose we are entitled to these services, because ultimately we are talking about that reality that we double pay for Galicians and Galicians, those that we do not have to pay for private health, those that we do not have to take care of our elders and the parents who continue to take their children to public schools despite the cuts, because we are not going to give up a quality public school for all. For all this, from En Marea we argue that financing must take into account a rigorous calculation of the cost of providing services in our country on the basis of criteria such as dispersion, ageing, orography or the extension of our coastline. That is true, when we talk about dispersion, for example, we have to put it into practice. The vagueness and well-being of the people don't make a good couple. Let us rethink the state and autonomous financing in all its relevance with honesty. We are very much in favour of decentralization of the State because of its democratic dimension and our multi-national conception of the State. This should in no way mean greater inequality, but for that we must understand that shared criteria must be fair. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, once again it is shown in this Chamber that they are wrong about a dance couple and that their decision leads us to a dead end when we could be working with a broad majority of leftists. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Fernández de Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members of the Government of Spain, Minister of Finance and Public Administrations, ladies and gentlemen, will allow me to move forward the sense of the vote of the People's Parliamentary Group, which will be in favour of the non-legislative proposal presented by Compromís, fundamentally putting into value that undoubtedly corresponds to an initiative that also comes to to tow the formulation that the Government of Spain has made of the call next Friday of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council to address the bases of the reform of the autonomous financing system. Ladies and gentlemen of Compromís, when the current Government of Spain arrived at the end of 2011 at the beginning of 2012 to the Government of the Spanish nation, we went to the urgent and indefatigable point, which was to get Spain out of the economic crisis, the rescue and the intervention to which the Socialists had referred for its disastrous management. That is why the first thing we did was, without a doubt, to consolidate from a budgetary point of view public finances that were broken, that were ruined. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, when it comes to what waste and corruption incubators mean, look to the south, look to Andalusia and see two former Board Presidents imputed, former Councillors and hundreds of senior officials of the Andalusian Board imputed for corruption. [[Applauds]] By the way, this government of the change that PSOE and Citizens are talking about has not been able to choose a better day than today, when the report of the Andalusian Chamber of Auditors that controls public spending in 2014, is published in Andalusia, where it is said that Susana Díaz's socialist government already has a billion euros in bills in the drawers. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u114	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u115	If it is that with you it is always the same: spending, spending, spending, but not paying. [[Applauds]] I invite and you pay, as the People's Party government does. What is it that the Government of Spain stifles the autonomous communities? [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain has been the most supportive government in the democratic history of public finances, helping autonomous communities and local entities, putting in place liquidity projection mechanisms, autonomous communities that otherwise could not even have paid the payroll, much less suppliers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u118	Wait a minute, Mr. Fernández. Please respect those who have the floor and the appropriate turn. [[Applauds]] Everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u119	The Government of Spain has allocated €133,896 million in liquidity measures between 2012 and 2014: to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, €62.8 billion; to the payment fund to suppliers to autonomous communities and local entities, €41.8 billion; and there has been a saving in financial cost for the public administrations linked to these operations of €2,559.5 million. That is the solidarity of the Government of Spain, helping the autonomous communities and local entities at the worst time, in a brutal economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good to come up here to the rostrum and start talking about social policies, but this is the spending you spent on social policies in 2007 in times of economic prosperity; on pensions, unemployment, dependency and social protection, EUR 138,574 million; and on the government of the People's Party EUR 185,736 million. [[Show a chart]] [[Applauds]] This is betting on social policy. The payment plans to suppliers, which is the largest employment plan that has been put in place throughout the Spanish nation, have been taken advantage of by the socialists, because they spent but did not pay. [[Rumors]] I will give you an example of my land: in Andalusia, the Board paid 93% of the arrears in dependency...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u120	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u121	...with funds from the Government of Spain. If it is that you mouth a lot, but at the time of truth the governments that pay, that commit themselves to interterritorial solidarity and that help the public administrations are those of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You abandon them and leave them completely forgotten. [[Applauds.-Protests]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with two final reflections. This picture is the evolution of the public deficit in Spain I know that this does not interest you, because they do not go along the path of budgetary consolidation, but in Spain, in the years 2007 and 2008, there was a surplus of 2.2% of the gross domestic product and with a socialist government, which ruined this country, they brought us nothing more and nothing less than a deficit of at least 11% of the national wealth, 13 points of the gross domestic product, Socialists left us a hole of 15 billion euros. I conclude by highlighting the commitment of the Government of Spain to the reform of the autonomous financing system, a commitment that we can now address on the path of budgetary consolidation, the structural reforms carried out by the Government of Spain, the reform of the financial sector to inject credit and, at the same time, stimulate investment, and something very important, because with you we have been able to generate unemployment of 3.5 Spaniards to a government of President Rajoy with 1,100,000 jobs. [[Show a chart]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] We have moved from the economic recession to economic growth, from the massive destruction of employment that took place with the socialists to the generation of employment...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u122	Finish now, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u123	...and you guys this afternoon have had a wonderful opportunity that you haven't had for four years. Spain and the Spanish have not yet asked forgiveness for how they left this country. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u124	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Before we begin with the votes and before reading an institutional statement that we agreed on this morning at the Board of Spokesmen - and I suppose I did not violate any rule of procedure - let me express and express this House's most unanimous and strong condemnation of the new macho murder that has been committed today in Benidorm, and also express our solidarity with the victim's family and friends. I already know, and we all know, that protesting is not enough, but if we do not, if we do not show our horror at the murder of a woman for being a woman, we will never end this scourge; and there are already fifteen women killed in our country in what is going on this year, and our obligation is to denounce the macho horror, but also to use all the instruments of the rule of law to educate, prevent, protect and help the victims and to pursue and combat this violence tirelessly until it disappears so that our society is more decent every day. I'm sure we all understand it that way. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u125	The second secretary will now read the institutional declaration.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u126	The European Capital of Youth is a title awarded since 2009 by the European Youth Forum to a population during the period of one year, in which it is given the opportunity to show, through a multifaceted programme, its cultural, social, political and economic life related to youth. The main objective of the initiative is to strengthen the relationship between European and local levels by encouraging the participation of young people at local level through the implementation of the common European objectives in the youth area. So far, no Spanish city has been elected. On this occasion, a candidature led by the Youth Council of the Canary Islands is presented, which will make our outermost region the centre of the map of European youth and, in addition, stimulate the European feeling of our young people as an integral and important part of the Union. A dynamic project of these dimensions aims to unite the youth of the seven islands, sharing and rotating the activities that are proposed throughout the territory, while developing the work in the network between the different canarian administrations with competence in youth matters. The capitality will be for all the Canary Islands and will rotate through the capitals of the seven islands and, in turn, of these towards the entire archipelagic territory. To establish a structured dialogue between administrations and young people, to enhance associationism and youth participation and, in general, the role of young people in the political decisions that affect them is one of the main objectives of our mission, in a European region sometimes isolated and affected by one of the highest rates of youth insecurity and unemployment. The European Capital is an excellent framework for involving the rest of the social, public and business sectors and actors of the islands in youth work. Enrichment occurs in both directions: outwards, in the projection of our territory towards the rest of Europe, making us known as the outermost region and as a crossover of tricontinental cultures. During 2019 our cities will also become the ideal place to host any kind of national or international conferences related to youth. This is a great opportunity to increase our visibility and visibility at European level. At the same time, it will allow the development of synergies and local projects whose influence and development will last far beyond the year in question, benefiting all Canarian youth in the long term. For this reason, the Congress of Deputies expresses its support for the candidacy 'Islas Canarias, Olas de Juventud 2019' - Canary Islands, Waves of Youth 2019-, promoted by the General Directorate of Youth of the Government of the Canary Islands, on the proposal of the Council of the Youth of the Canary Islands, which has as its fundamental objectives to activate youth policies, seriously undermined during the period of crisis, as well as to encourage the youth of an ultraperipheral region such as the Canary Islands to feel integrated and to be recognized as an important part of Europe. Congress of Deputies, April 12, 2016. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u127	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u128	We shall now proceed to the vote. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group, amending Law 25/2015 of 28 July 2015 on a second chance mechanism, reducing the financial burden and other social measures. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 115 against, 163 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u129	It's rejected. - OF THE LORD Iglesias TURRION AND OTHER 57 DEPUTATES, 25 OF SOCIAL EMERGENCY. [[File number 123/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u130	We voted to take into consideration the proposed law of Mr Iglesias Turrión and another 57 deputies, 25 of social emergency. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 167 against, 114 abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u131	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u132	We voted on the text of the non-legislative proposals, according to what has been agreed and announced in the course of the debate. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group on urgent measures to prevent the bankruptcy and disappearance of the steel sector. [[EAJ-PNV]] We voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 332.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u133	It was adopted unanimously. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on criteria for the reform of the system of financing of the Autonomous Communities of the Common System and Communities with a status. [[LORD BALDOVI, LORD BATALLER, LORD CANDELA AND LORD SORLI]] [[File number 162/000147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u134	We voted for the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, Mr Bataller, Mr Candela and Mrs Sorlí, on criteria for the reform of the system of financing the autonomous communities of common system and cities with status. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the Socialist Group's amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 325 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-12-CD160412.u135	It's approved. We suspend the session until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. It was eight and forty-five minutes of the night.
