ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u1	The meeting was called to order. This plenary session includes as the only item on the agenda the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 2/2016 of 30 September, introducing tax measures aimed at reducing the public deficit. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor first of all by making use of the powers granted to me by our Constitution and our existing Government Act to explain the content of a measure recently adopted by the Council of Ministers, which refers to the approval of Royal Decree-Law 2/2016, and to request the House's endorsement of this decree-law. This is an action relating to the fractional payment of corporation tax, which in a few minutes of intervention I would like to place in its context. Firstly, I want to tell you that Spain is growing and, more importantly, that economic growth is moving towards new job creation. Very few days ago at its general meeting, the International Monetary Fund predicted that Spain's economic growth in 2016 would be 3.1%. We are a country to which the International Monetary Fund has acknowledged that it is going to grow much more than predicted. We are also growing more than predicted by the Spanish Government itself and this means that in this exercise more than 500,000 jobs will be created in Spain, 500,000 new jobs. This is really what Spanish society needs to bring an end to an economic crisis whose worst aspect has been the destruction of jobs and, therefore, the creation of the inequality inherent in that destruction of jobs and the loss of hope in much of our society, also in our young people, and not only in relation to their future but also to their present. Fortunately, we are already growing and creating jobs in our country. We are at the head of growth in Europe, we double the growth of the EU average, and we grow twice as much as big countries grow, as can be the case of the United States, the world's first economy. This is what we're already experiencing. Therefore, it is worth wondering why Spain grows that way. Because Spain makes legitimate use, in order to promote its economic growth and its job creation, of the policies of impulse, which I must say are general, for almost all the developed world and, in particular, in the European Union. They are those that have been called tailwinds, which blow for the whole world, but in Spain they allow, by economic policies, that our speed of growth doubles and translates into one of the most important job creations that has ever lived the economy of our country. Creating more than 500,000 jobs in a single year brings us back to our best stages of economic growth, prosperity. Therefore, we also have to ask ourselves and to investigate why we are growing up that way. We're growing up for two reasons. First of all, because in the 10th Legislature we made profound structural reforms in our country. We did the reform of the labour market, of labour relations in Spain. We did the reform of the banking sector's sanitation. We made key reforms to promote energy supply in Spain. We have made reforms in the field of public administration, with which we have been able to correct the deficit, which is certainly very high, which we recorded in 2011 and which is now half that scale. We can now say, therefore, that we are making in our country the mix of economic policies, the mix of budgetary and monetary policy that is promoting economic growth and job creation in Spain. That is why the Spanish economy is growing more than the big European economies, because in Spain we are making a mix of economic policy based on the structural reforms that are allowing us, being as we are a country of entrepreneurs, that economic growth, but above all - I insist - job creation. In this context, the Government has adopted a Royal Decree-Law on completing the tax revenues programmed in the State budget for 2016. In that exercise, what we did was alter, modify the system of split corporate tax payments for all companies, but especially for the companies that charge the most, from 10 million euros. That is what we are going to correct with this royal decree-law, something that has occurred - I insist - since the beginning of the exercise, but that does not alter the spirit and the spirit of the tax reforms that we promote in the X Legislature, reform of the income tax of individuals, reform of the corporation tax. These two reforms have allowed us to inject €9 billion into the economy of families, individuals and businesses in our country. That tax reduction is one of the fundamental drivers of economic growth, and we have also affected the nature of those large taxes. In particular, today we have a company tax in force in Spain with a nominal rate of 25% that favours and encourages the capitalisation of companies, promotes and encourages research, development and technological innovation policies and, in short, promotes and encourages the competitiveness of our companies. The royal decree-law that we propose today to the Chamber modifies the system of split payments of corporation tax, returning it to parameters similar to those that we apply in the X Legislature, where already in the year 2012 we have been able to collect more than 4 billion euros on the collection of the year 2011 from the big companies of Spain. I insist on this figure, more than €4 billion, year 2012 on year 2011, year of falling economic activity, therefore year of diminishing business profits. But it was important that we ask for a tax effort from the big taxpayers in Spain. We did so by changing the corporate tax rules and the system of split payments. What we bring here today is the recovery of the system of split payments, warning that we do not change the nature of corporate tax, warning that we are not proposing in any way tax increases, because that is not what we need in Spain, at all, to grow and create jobs, as is already being demonstrated in this year 2016 and in the previous year 2015, and we even started to register it in 2014. It is not a question of promoting any tax increases in the House this morning. If it is to change the fractional payment for those taxpayers and those companies that invoice in our country more than 10 million euros, that it becomes a collective of about nine thousand companies, very important in our economic activity, crucial in promoting our economic growth and our job creation, but that they represent a number not too high when we compare it with the three million autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises that exist in Spain. Therefore, we are going to ask for an effort in the fractional payment, which materializes today, to large taxpayers, and we are doing so convinced - I insist - that we are not going to worsen the taxation of anyone, much less small and medium-sized self-employed, to whom it does not affect at all, but we also do not intend to worsen the taxation of the medium and large companies in our country. We are calling for a higher split payment which, in the event of a return next year, when the final settlement is presented, but I must insist that the procedure we are proposing in this decree-law should also remain for the following year, should not be peremptory, perishable, in the short term, but should remain in our country at least until the whole of the public deficit falls below 3% and Spain comes out of that surveillance, from that strengthened supervision in which we are on the part of the European institutions, more specifically the European Commission. Until that horizon that we hope is not far away, what we are proposing is the establishment of tax revenues that we need in the short term, that we need to complete the tax revenues in the current year and that would lead to the collection of corporate tax in this year, in 2016, to the environment of 21 billion euros, which is a figure similar to that that we have already been able to enter in the previous years - years 2015 and 2014 - and that would reproduce in similar terms - depends, obviously, because that amount cannot be specified -, being guaranteed for the year 2017. In this way, what we do by confirming that we have this added tax income on what was already happening in the evolution of the tax revenue for this year is that the objective of the deficit path that we have established within the European institutions for all the public administrations of Spain - 4.6% of this year - can be achieved. We will get that 4,6 % - and we aspire to that - to include financial aid as well. The establishment of this split payment, which, as you know from the text of the decree-law, refers to applying 23% on the accounting result of these companies, bringing - this argument is also important - the rate applied to withholding the nominal rate of tax. Precisely this approach is also the cause of what we have already approved in the House this morning. I would also like to thank, on behalf of the Government, the result of these votes because, in addition to the amendment of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability - which, as has been sufficiently outlined in this debate, is fundamental for the purpose of fixing the deficits of our autonomous communities for the financial year 2016 and also for 2017 - a fundamental amendment has been adopted that affects the system of split payments corresponding to the special tax economic regimes in the Canary Islands and Ceuta and Melilla. Therefore, this adequacy has already been approved by the House and my words cannot be different in relation to the gratitude and appreciation we make from the Government as to the sensitivity that is incorporated by the political groups of this House on the fiscal differences characteristic of our country, where we enable a coexistence between fundamentally different finances. I just wanted to be not very prolific in the explanation. In short, I insist on the idea that it is a question of raising tax resources that, precisely when we go to cover sufficient funding for our public deficit target, will come to confirm the strength of our economic recovery and of our job creation. The figures are those contained in the decree-law and those which I have been able to add in this not extensive explanation of the collection objectives that we seek with this measure, but, above all - I insist - it is a measure that at a time when there is abundant liquidity in our financial system, in our economic system we are convinced that it will not fundamentally disrupt the functioning of our companies. It is necessary to adopt it in this urgent way in order to complete the tax revenues and comes, in short, to strengthen the economic recovery that the Spaniards so much need, especially when that economic recovery is moving so faithfully to new employment opportunities, ensuring that in a short time Spain can aspire to regain the levels of occupation, employment, that we had at the beginning of the crisis, in 2007. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u3	Thank you very much. Since we did not request the use of counter-clockwise, we moved on to position-fixing. Firstly, Mr Quevedo Iturbe is speaking for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Montoro, Foro does not agree with the collection measures of the establishment by decree-law of the minimum fractional payment of corporation tax, which is neither fractional nor minimal, as some experts have warned, because it seriously damages the financing of companies by significantly reducing resources when they are already in the last quarter of their fiscal year and have their budget programmes almost completed. The proposed change is of such magnitude that we could talk about a new tax and not about a fractionation of the existing one. This new fiscal occurrence penalises investment very negatively, reducing liquidity to the financial forecasts and will therefore slow job creation, as well as diminishing legal certainty and reducing the stability of businesses. It also hinders domestic and foreign investment because it is applied retroactively and with effect for the months already after 2016. Forum opposes any increase in taxes, even if it is transitory, because resorting to the tax maneuver that Minister Montoro likes so much is a simplistic and comfortable solution, especially inadequate and rejectable, because there are other alternatives such as the intelligent management of the Spanish concessional system to increase the revenues without raising the taxes of all the others and would also have a positive effect on the competitiveness of the Spanish economy and would promote the creation of jobs, the great political priority and the greater need of the Spaniards. Therefore, there is an alternative to this royal decree-law, whose validation I will vote against. Finally, I would like to stress that it is paradoxical that the Government does not want to use it when in Spain we are a pioneer in the implementation of the concessional system, which is also a formula accepted by the European Union. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u5	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Alli Martínez. [[Pause]] I give the floor to Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u6	Thank you, President. Minister, we are going to oppose your proposal and we have already told you that we are going to request the processing of this royal decree as a bill, and we are going to try to argue this. You have ascended to the rostrum and said a half truth, from our perspective. He said: It is about demanding more or less what was being paid in 2012 at a time of difficulty. Minister, you know that's not true. You introduce a very new, different concept, which has tried to go unnoticed, of minimum income. What is the difference from the minimum income to the split payment as currently calculated? There's a very important one. The minimum income of 23% is required on the accounting result, not on the taxable basis, and that is the novelty. That is to say, the novelty is that companies will have to enter 23% of their accounting result without being able to make the necessary tax adjustments that they will then make on the taxable basis, without being able to offset negative tax bases from previous years, without taking into account the bonuses and without being able to deduct the deductions. This is the big difference. There will be companies that will make split payments and will have to apply for repayment and these companies will indeed create a financial imbalance. You, with this action you have taken today, say: We are not going to disrupt the financial planning of companies in an important way. Of course they're gonna do it! If you think this is because you don't know the reality of companies. The worst is their poor financial planning by approving the budget and moving it in just three weeks' notice to companies. His liquidity and deficit problems are moving him to the companies and that is not good for the Spanish state as a whole, but it is less good for Catalonia. This is the second point we want to focus on. Why is it less good for Catalonia? Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister announced, and today he has reiterated, that this only affects nine thousand companies, which are the ones that charge more than EUR 10 million. According to data from the Generalitat Business Council, in Catalonia there are 4,500 companies that charge more than 10 million euros. Ergo, 50% of this effort is being transferred exclusively to the Catalan productive sector, it is being transferred exclusively to Catalan companies, to which, of course, it affects them, because they are not financed at zero, Minister, or near zero, so they do not know the business reality. To these companies that plan, and plan well, you with three weeks view tell them: Now you have to make a fractional payment that was not planned and for an amount that you did not plan and, moreover, in December you will have to make another fractional payment that you did not plan. And this of course affects the productive effort, of course it affects the growth and clear that it affects the creation of jobs, and not wanting to see it is to ignore the reality of Catalan companies and also Spanish companies. Does this mean that it is only going to make an extra effort for some companies? No, Minister, you know it's not. Besides, they're going to solve today's problem, but they're not going to solve tomorrow's problem. When you try to bring the 2017 budget to these Chambers you will have to bear in mind that there will be more corporate tax returns and less corporate tax revenues. You have tried to incorporate a social narrative in the sense that this will only mean that the companies that charge the most are going to contribute more, but it is not. It will create them many more problems and, moreover, they are difficult to solve in the short and medium term. Minister, I would like us to look at something else. Are they aware that almost half of this EUR 8.3 billion is being demanded from Catalan companies? Have they explained in Catalonia that 50% of this effort is concentrated only where 20% of GDP is generated? Did they explain it? Because this is the reality, these are the figures. If it's really only affecting nine thousand companies, the reality is this. Therefore, our group is going to request its processing as a bill and in this way many Members will see the consequences of establishing this system of split payments. It is a system that incorporates a novelty, which is the one that mentioned it from the minimum income. It is not a matter of the fact that split payments simply go from 17% to 24% of the taxable base for each of the three periods, but that by incorporating this concept of minimum payment, many problems will arise for those companies that have suffered losses, are trying to recover, are not going to be able to discount their negative tax bases from split payments and are going to have to advance some amounts that, in July 2017, you will have to repay. Therefore, Minister, concluding: what you are doing today is that this problem of your poor financial planning, this treasury problem, this deficit problem is being transferred to businesses, it is being transferred to the productive sector. If this generates more employment, someone will have to explain it to us. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u7	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group PNV, Mr Azpiazu Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u8	Madam President, Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen with some perplexity how the agenda has been changed to bring this issue up, but since we are here we are going to talk about the debate and the validation of Royal Decree 2/2016 of 30 September, introducing tax measures aimed at reducing the public deficit. I understand, Minister, the imperative need of your Government to increase the tax declaration in order to avoid the fine or reprisals of the European Union. I believe that this is the objective, at least the most explicit, of this royal decree. Council Decision 2016/1223 of 12 July 2016 states that effective measures have not been taken to meet public deficit and debt commitments and hence the urgency of improving public accounts through increased revenue. To this end, what you have found most by hand is to modify the legal regime for split payments by large companies in corporate tax. Those companies whose turnover - as you have explained, Minister - exceeds EUR 10 million will have to anticipate the payment of the tax, as you have explained to us. It is only an advance that will necessarily entail a lower collection - as other speakers have also pointed out - when next year's tax is settled. It may even imply that the repayments requested during the liquidation are greater than even the settled figure. Therefore, we are talking about a partial and emergency solution. A solution that is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. What companies pay this year extra, they will pay next year less because there is no rise in rates but the effect is an exclusively financial issue that relieves the Administration's accounts today - although as has been said may make the accounts of companies difficult - but it does not solve but creates even a problem in tomorrow's accounts. It is therefore an improvised solution that does not solve the fundamental problem, which is the Government's difficulty in disciplining public accounts and meeting the demands of the European Union. Mr Montoro, the European Union knows that what you are doing - if I may say so - is a political trilerism because, no matter how much you want to hide it by turning it around, today's smallest deficit brings it to a greater deficit tomorrow, unless, Minister, you raise the corporate tax, you raise the tax rates, something that you now seem to deny, even if you know them, somehow I can say that even if you deny it today, this does not mean that you will not do it tomorrow. Minister, the situation of the Spanish economy, despite the fact that you have painted us a rather optimistic picture, is still problematic. Not so much because the situation is going wrong - because the situation is going relatively well in terms of growth figures - but there are some serious fundamental problems that will have to be addressed by a government when it starts. They are serious fundamental problems: unemployment is still very high, inequality is important, the low productivity of the economy is a pending subject that will have to be addressed in a serious way... There are difficulties to square public accounts, which is also leading to the adoption of this royal decree, but I am not going to go into economic analysis at this time. You and I, and the rest of the honourable Members, know perfectly well what the structural and fundamental problems of the Spanish economy are. Therefore, sooner or later we will have to deal with them, and I believe that it will also be necessary - we will see in what sense; you from the government will have greater responsibility for this - to review the tax system in depth. Otherwise, we will have to continue with the cuts, with the stick and temptuous that have already become common in general economic policy, imposed to a large extent by Europe and that has significant contractual effects on the economy. Addressing these issues will indeed require a well-active Government and not a functioning Government that makes the right decisions. Today, with this royal decree, we are only trying to avoid a fine from the European Union, but nothing fundamental will be resolved. Further measures will undoubtedly be required. I hope, Minister, that this time it will not be wrong, as happened with the estimate of the collection, with the issue of the tax amnesty and that, in fact, they will come close to the EUR 8,300 million they are planning to collect so that Europe will say that this time it has been successful, and that it will be enough to get out of this situation. In any case, bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, but pending the adoption of structural fund measures, we will vote in favour of the validation of the royal decree-law because it is necessary to take some measures so as not to make the image of Europe worse. The fine with which Europe can sanction them would not be a good endorsement for the progress of the economy and that is why they will have our support, even if it is critical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u9	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u10	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. First of all, Minister, if you want to raise more money, you really raise taxes, corporation tax, instead of making these accounting traps that you present to us today. You know that we agree to raise taxes. We already told them when they lowered it; moreover, they should climb it and especially to the big companies. In fact, we are going to ask that you be treated as a bill to do so. Secondly, the reality is the opposite: it is the medium-sized enterprises that are holding this tax, because while small and medium-sized enterprises are paying and will continue to pay a real effective rate of 15%, large enterprises are paying and will continue to pay at 6%. Thirdly, as a result of this disproportionate and disproportionate imposition they are harming SMEs and, by extension, those territories whose productive system is based on them, as is the case - and you see the intention - of Catalonia. According to the calculations of the Government of Catalonia, of the 8,000 companies that the Minister estimates will be affected by this proposal today, 4,500 are Catalan, and then they are surprised that the Catalan entrepreneur is in favour of independence. Fourthly, if you are not raising corporation tax, what are you doing? They are cheating, minister; they are cheating by twisting the numbers and they are trying to deceive Europe and they are trying to make this Parliament complicit in deception. You have made a very inflated forecast of corporate tax revenue, as we have already told you in the general budget debate and as Europe itself has told you. And in the face of the fiction of collecting the 25 billion euros that they said - in fact, in July of this year they have barely exceeded 400 million - they have found a brilliant solution: to advance the payment of the tax on companies, so that companies pay this year an advance of the tax on companies as a forecast of what they should pay next year. In other words, you force medium-sized companies to give a credit to zero percent interest; and I say medium-sized companies because large companies will continue to pay their business abroad, avoiding paying taxes here. Do you know what that means for medium-sized enterprises? Do you know how they compromise the planning and investment of medium-sized enterprises? This measure is clearly detrimental to their competitiveness and, consequently, also loss of liquidity. His Ministry of Finance and Public Administration is working to reduce the competitiveness that his cabinet partner, Mr. De Guindos, is trying to promote. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all What it applies for the Treasury loses it for competitiveness. What else is there that you present to us here? Legal insecurity and a clear lack of planning. The measure reaches the middle of the year, breaking any planning previously established by the companies. Do you know, Minister, that companies, unlike your government, even if it is provisional, try to maintain their planning and achieve their objectives? As long as you don't have a minister like you in front of you. We have, therefore, that companies are affected by their future activity, seeing their treasury reduced, advancing by 23 % of their expected accounting result in a tax year, without even knowing how this exercise will end - from industrial companies to commercial and exporting companies - the money that they will have to anticipate and that they will therefore have to subtract from other items and that it will therefore not result in greater investment, with the consequent impact on aspects such as exports or future jobs. These excess tax amounts will not be recovered, at best, until mid-2018. Clearly, then, it is a measure that shows that his Government does not promote the productive economy and, worse still, that his Government puts the interests of his party, of the party which in any case supports him, before the general economic interests. Because the pouf they have in their accounting largely stems from the brilliant idea they had last year, in the light of elections, of lowering taxes for purely electoral purposes and trying to deceive society and societies with it and, as a result of this disastrous decision, the State has seen how its revenues have fallen by at least 7 billion euros. What we are doing here today is putting in place a patch to pay for the waste that has generated the party that you set up and now you have to come up with a new rule that allows you to have liquidity - that you do not collect, that is different - at least for a while, to cover the holes that you, as I said - yes, the People's Party, which gives support to this provisional government - have generated. An accounting makeup that you, Minister, Mr Montoro, will allow for a longer period of time to achieve the public deficit targets, thus fulfilling the fiscal path imposed by Brussels. In conclusion, with the adoption of this royal decree nothing will have changed, in reality the system will remain the same, his friends of Ibex 35 will not notice the effects of this measure, while businesses, medium-sized enterprises, will be affected and will surely be harmed. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will have managed to have more cash, more liquidity before the end of the year to conceal before Brussels that you are doing your duties and, as always, applying your currency, the currency that triumphs in Spain: bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u11	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, there comes a day when the consequences of our actions always reach us. The budgets that were approved for 2016 contained completely unrealistic income estimates, fantasy income estimates, and when that happens, there comes a day when the consequences are also paid, and it is that the economic management, in fantastic quotes, of the People's Party is completely evident. Look, this year's budgets had to meet a deficit of 2.8% and what you yourself have acknowledged that companies and individuals in Spain have done their homework: tax revenues had to increase and expenses such as unemployment benefits had to decrease. We are now facing an emergency decree-law, not to meet 2.8%, but not to end up with a 5.4% deficit. That is to say, the gap is 25 billion euros and this was seen to come because some, in public and in private, have been warned of it since last year. Finally, the income estimates you have had in this House are as incredible as it is to be believed that when you had EUR 100 billion of social security contribution income last year, for example, Mrs Báñez, you would think that this year we were going to raise EUR 117 billion; obviously we are not going to raise them and therefore we leave a hole here. Something similar can be said of the estimate of income of the IRPF or of the one of the excise taxes; however, the palm is carried by the tax on companies. The corporation tax that the People's Party has reformed and that has achieved real success. He's got companies making more money than ever before and paying less than ever. In the first quarter, according to official data from the Tax Agency, the companies earned 74,620 million euros, is the highest figure in the historical series, and they paid less than ever, they paid only 4.7% of the total of the companies. Moreover, this was not equally distributed, i.e. the large consolidated groups gained 16.5 % more and paid 63 % less. In the end this will lead to further cuts in the future - that is the role, the budget draft that they have sent to Brussels - and has even led to cuts this year: there is an accounting closure, no further invoices are allowed because of their inability to charge a minimally reasonable rate to large companies. This is followed by the Socialist Party, which approved tax benefits such as freedom of amortization without maintaining employment. The company tax that you approved was intended to increase your collection by 20% this year, to get 25 billion compared to 21,000 last year, and that is impossible to do by lowering taxes, much more by lowering taxes without control, causing tremendous holes to big companies. Let me give you a couple of examples: on the one hand, Mr Montoro, today, with his new wording of article 21 of the Companies Tax Act, when we talk about holes, large companies when they sell a subsidiary pay nothing of surplus value, is exempt; so it is impossible to collect. Even in your reform, Mr Montoro, you gave a credit, well, an additional deduction to compensate businesses for the tremendous damage of lowering their taxes. This is what you gather, for example, in your transitional arrangement thirty-seven. If you do all this sort of thing, the result is what it is, a real success: to bring down corporate tax collection when companies earn more money than ever before. On the other hand, this was also coming. With the fractional payment of the first quarter it was collected half last year, that is, it was very clear that the collection targets were not going to be met at all. I do not know whether this is good or bad, as was said, for competitiveness, but in the end, one usually pretends that a tax is collected and if one is not able to collect those who have the most economic capacity, which are the big companies, in the end others end up paying it. One point, since it was not here the other day, although it did vote in favour, before demanding the first additional euro from those who are already paying, even though they are paying little as can be the case with large companies, we believe, and in fact you even voted for it in this Parliament, that they should demand that the fraudsters, the fraudsters of the tax amnesty, pay and comply with the law that said they had to pay 10% and not just 3% as they paid. This prescribes November 30th and should be put to work. [[Applauds]] Indeed, the fiscal situation in Spain is problematic and this decree-law is essential. What is very critical - we have passed it on to some of your cabinetmates, although I do not know whether or not they will have passed it on to you, but also this we have published in the newspaper - is that this was inevitable and that for months it was seen to come that there was no other remedy than to demand a higher advance payment because you had not only removed the split payment on the accounting result, but had also done something else and that was that with various holes - some of which I have told you here - you had collapsed the collecting capacity of the corporation tax. They have waited until the last minute to approve the tightening of the company tax and I will be precise because this came into force on 1 October, it was approved on 30 September and published at 9 p.m. I don't know why we couldn't wait until twelve minus five, already put, because, in total, they were only asking 8 billion companies that are achieved in a while. Even when we thought that this improvisation was difficult to overcome, we found that they had forgotten about the Canary and those of Ceuta and Melilla, and since these companies have a number of tax benefits that, in fact, come to compensate for the remoteness and the special difficulties to operate in these territories, it was necessary to modify that decree-law. This was done yesterday. I am not saying that they have not learned because it is that the last time they brought split payments to this House in 2012, this hardening, demanded and put into the bag of large companies that had to pay Caritas and Manos Unidas. Then they had to correct it. This time they have learned and have left out only the Canary Islands companies. In a few years we hope that they will be able to make a decree-law with less dope and that we will not be forced to pass it all the last day. [[Applauds]] The advance that our group is going to support the validation of this decree-law because there is no longer any remedy, but we are concerned about a fundamental issue of all that you have said and it is the following: If this year 8 billion is demanded in advance, even if the effect is maintained next year it will be more 8 billion this year, 8 billion that are returned and re-claimed in advance, that is, zero next year. If this year we have won 13 billion, next year we will not get more than 16 billion or 17 billion. [[Minister of Finance and Public Administration in office, Montoro Romero, makes negative signs]] You say it's not so, but, in short, they're elementary mathematics and, of course, their income forecasts, let me say, have not always been very correct. In any case, we are concerned that if large and very large companies do not pay a minimum effective rate, we will end up having to pay others or will systematically fail to meet the deficit targets. In short, in Spain we have seen in this year 2016 how budgets were completely out of reality and we ended up facing emergency measures to avoid a fine of 6 billion euros. We have seen how corporate tax reform has been disastrous. We have also seen how changes must be made at the last minute. There is no alternative but to vote in favour because the other alternative is a fine of more than EUR 6 billion and put the credibility of public finances at risk. But it seems to us that these are not ways of doing things. Neither are the most left-wing approaches to do things that are intended to completely obviate budgetary stability, which means in the medium term putting the social state at risk, nor are they acceptable approaches to leaving everything for the last minute and finally forcing major companies to make progress. Spain needs more responsible management and, Mr Montoro, it also needs a company tax that collects a minimum acceptable amount. And he needs legal certainty and not making all the changes at the last minute. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u13	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u14	Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you last Tuesday, we are now witnessing a show which is less interesting in this House. We see a Government in office repealing measures that an active Government has adopted; that is, a Government in office reforming the reforms of an active Government. And I guess this, for you, is a dish of bad taste. A reform that we all knew, and he was warned, that would have a harmful effect on corporate tax collection, on the government deficit and on public accounts in general. But let me make a number of preliminary considerations before I go into this matter. Mr. Montoro, I believe in human error. I think you might be wrong. Nor am I naive and I also believe in twisted behaviors, even in twisted behaviors, but I sincerely believe that when you are wrong what you do is to ask for forgiveness, apologize, try to amend your mistakes and move on with an amendment purpose. The debate on this corporate tax reform could be framed in those terms. Hypothetically we might think that it was a mistake, that the Government was wrong and now the Government is coming to office and is apologizing, amending the error and moving on. It is true that it is much more difficult to think that one can be wrong when one has an entire ministry behind it and the entire fiscal structure of the State and that one can assess in a much more appropriate way the impact of a reform that is being made. It is easier to think that this behavior was not a mistake, but rather a twisted or twisted behavior, especially when it occurs before an election, nor should it be very misunderstandingd. But let's assume it was a mistake. The only thing we expected from you today is for you to get here and apologize for the mistake. That is not the only thing, it also had to explain to us a thing of minimal coherence: why something you said in 2015 that was not going to have any impact on the public deficit, now, reverse it in 2016, is the only measure you send to Brussels to show that we are doing effective actions against the deficit. Why - and I will tell you this in a way that I understand even my child, who is in first care - if eliminating the payments on account would not have any impact on the deficit - and that is why they do - now recovering the payments on account will have a positive impact on the deficit and will reduce it? In one of the two moments you were lying to us and that no longer enters the field of mistakes but enters the field of twisted or twisted behaviors. By the way, I take advantage of the fact that you have the Minister of Labour next to you to encourage you to repeal all of us, to help you repeal the labour reform, which is not a mistake but an attack on the rights of all workers in this country. [[Applauds]] Having said that, we go to the bottom of the matter. You bring us here a real decree for us to validate it in which they introduce tax measures aimed at reducing the deficit, and which essentially, as you said, is the repeal of itself, of its reform a year ago and peak. Basically what brings us here is like saying, "Where I said I said, I say Diego and nothing happened here. But it has been a year, Minister, and during this year things have happened, which you know perfectly well because you are most responsible for the things that have happened in this matter. From the start you bring this here late, because in April 2016 - just a few months ago - when you send the Stability Plan to Brussels, you acknowledge that the corporate tax collection was already falling dramatically. They could have done at that time the repeal of that reform, and you know it perfectly well, they could have done so at that time. Why didn't they? Wow, again some elections in June that made it difficult for them to recognize their mistake in public. Secondly, Minister, you are a professor of public finance. This reform undermines the essential principles of the Public Treasury that you at the time - time has - explained in your classes, and have not changed so much; I assure you that they have not changed so much, because I was there a year ago. You have already told them: it proposes a reform in 2015, radically modifying it in 2016, and legal certainty, that value to which you so much value - worth redundancy - give it, pass it through the lining. They don't take into account the forecasts that agents have made for the future, they don't take into account any of that. And the principle of legal certainty you well know is a principle of tax revenue. Moreover, this is a reform that is based on the misconceptions of his Government. You fail more - let me tell you - than a cane shotgun, you and your ministry. We find that they expect a 10% increase in corporate tax collection and fall more than 100 %, 42 % at the same rate. Your fiscal policy is so unsustainable that even you have to reform yourself. Thirdly, the problem is not temporary, as you are raising, the problem is structural and is being told by all the groups in the House, the problem is the structure of the company tax, the problem is that every time a reform of the company tax has been made so that the companies in this country - especially the large ones - pay less, there has been an increasing hole in the public coffers. Minister, be careful who you listen to, because your ministry fails a lot, but the International Monetary Fund's predictions still fail much more, much more. Its economic recovery makes no sense for me to raise it if what we see is, for example, the collection of corporate tax before the crisis and at the moment. At the moment we find that tax revenues are still 53% less than before the crisis, 20 billion. So let's not talk mouth-to-mouth full of recovery, citing the International Monetary Fund, when what we are in a regressive recovery. We are raising points of economic growth at the cost of reducing social rights, and this results in a breach of another principle of public finances, which is financial insufficiency. If you lower taxes that translates into lower public revenue, and therefore the only way you can then think of squared the accounts you've broken is by cutting public spending and fees. Let us have some consideration for what is happening in our society. There are more problems in corporate tax than in account payments: the essential difference between real rates, which are comparable to those across Europe, and tax collection. The problem with corporate tax is that the effective rates paid by companies, and especially large companies, have nothing to do with real rates, and hence their problem of collecting corporate tax. I don't tell you, Fedea tells you, that as you well know it's not very ideologically aligned with our positions. And we have another essential problem: that of tax deductions in corporation tax, which generates a brutal hole in public revenue in that way. In the face of that, what are they proposing to us? Restore split payments. You have already told him, with more technical rigour than you apply when you carry out the reforms, that all this is going to translate into bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. As you have argued that this is a temporary measure as long as the deficit is above 3% and they expect to reach 2018 with a deficit below 3%, from there we do not know what it will do, whether it will repeal it again or reform itself again. The problem is solved by sincerely answering a question, and that is where the problem of the tax system is in our country, whether in the way of expenditure or in the way of income. If it is on the income path, what happened with its initial reform, the 2015 reform was that it was further deepened in the income problem. And if you recognize it, what is happening right now is that as you have been told you are transferring the problem of your ministry to the medium and large companies in this country. What you had to say in April, when you realized that you had been wrong, but you did not want to do so because there were elections, and what you would have to say now, which already gives you a little more equal, because probably within fifteen days, with the support of the Socialist Group, you will be a government, it was that you would have to give them your surplus liquidity, accumulated thanks to the daily effort of these companies, to solve your tax problems with Europe and to avoid the fine that will be imposed on us. I'm done. It is good that you have acknowledged your mistakes, Minister, although a more explicit statement that you were wrong would not have been very damaging to your image either. But the reform is absolutely insufficient, and since we do not want to be in solidarity with the chaperos, but if we want to be responsible with our country, I anticipate that we will abstain from this measure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u15	Thank you very much. Mr López Milla has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what brings us here at the moment is only a partial correction, Minister, of a wrong decision, of an electoral decision, as was the reform of the company tax approved by the PP in 2014. It was a reform that lowered the taxes paid by large corporations in Spain, while it did not face serious problems, such as the need to tax profits derived through cross-border tax engineering operations, but which contributed, together with the reform of the IRPF, which essentially favours high incomes, to the failure to meet the 2015 deficit target. And you will not be able to say, Minister, that you were not warned. The European Commission and the International Monetary Fund warned him that this tax reform, which they carried out in 2014, jeopardized the achievement of the deficit target, and that sanctions, the demand for further cuts or the blocking of European funds could come next. But you were at your service, you were dedicated to the election campaign that began in the summer of 2015, when you brought here the General Budgets of the State. The Government of which you are a member, Mr Montoro, did not settle for most of the deficit target, leaving the autonomous communities with a proportion of that target below their share of expenditure, because the deficit targets had to be hollowed out for tax reform for high incomes and large corporations. You didn't settle for that. In addition, revenue forecasts were invented and generated a hole that has turned its budgets into useless, forcing them to close when only seven months had passed since its entry into force; by the way, without giving this House the slightest explanation of the consequences of the closure, the scope of the closure or the items concerned. I would like to ask you at some point whether we will know the details of the expenditure items concerned, whether we will know what specific expenditure, what specific expenditure has been delayed or deleted by the closure of the budget, or whether all the explanations in the black hole of the Government in office will be lost. In the budget plan you sent just a few days ago to Brussels you say that you have adopted a non-availability of appropriations agreement on this year's budgets amounting to EUR 2 billion. They say that the early closure of these budgets generates a reduction in expenditure of around EUR 1 billion, and add that the change in split payments in corporate tax reaches EUR 8.3 billion. As 2,000 plus 1,000 plus 8,300, a total of EUR 11.3 billion of measures implemented on this year's budgets. These are the measures that you have had to take on those budgets in order to achieve the deficit target, which I see!, is not the deficit target that was in the budgets. As has already been said here, you have brought to this House budgets where the sum of the deficit target of the Central Administration and Social Security was 2.5%, and in the progress of the settlement of this year's budget on page 21 of the budget plan which you have referred to Brussels you are talking about a total, Central Administration and Social Security, of 4.3%. That is to say, you are forecasting a deficit that exceeds that in the 2016 budgets by more than EUR 18 billion, and all this after the non-availability agreement, after the early closure of the budget and after the increase in split payments, which, as I say, are more than EUR 11 billion. So, Mr Montoro, what was the real deficit in the public accounts that you brought here as a prologue to the election campaign? Certainly - an estimate has been given earlier, I agree with it - it did not fall by 5.4% of GDP, which is more than twice the figure that appeared in those budgets. And look!, all this with the economy growing to 3%. We have the economy growing to 3%, a growing economy, but in which the social security deficit is not reduced. Something will have to do with this labour reform, which creates precarious contracts, which creates low wages, and which causes employment not to reduce the income of Social Security and which is not sufficient to reduce the imbalance in our pension system, by the way, an imbalance in the pension system, Mrs Báñez, which would still be greater if you had not found that EUR 67,000 million in the public pension system, and with which you have been able to pay in these five years two out of every fourteen payments to which the pensioners in Spain are entitled, a hedge that unfortunately is ending without you having done anything to prevent it. A growing economy, yes, but instead of taking advantage of it to recover rights and to repair damages, you decided that the recovery would serve to make a tax gift to large corporations and put the General Budgets of the State at the service of the electoral interests of the People's Party. Why have you, Minister, served all the sacrifices that you have demanded of the vast majority of Spaniards in these years? Aren't they going to be used to balance public accounts? Were they not going to serve to substantially lower the level of public debt - that we were told -? The co-payments, the increase in VAT, the increases in taxes, cuts in social services, education, health care, dependency, active employment policies, cuts in unemployment benefits, all the other sacrifices that you have imposed on citizens at the end have not even served to achieve the goals that you yourself had imposed on yourself in budgetary matters. They have ended up failing to meet the deficit target, they have produced the highest level of public debt in a century, they have run out of budgets when there were still five months to close the year, they have exposed us to the risk of a sanction, they have exposed us to the risk of the loss of European funds, and they end up giving the next government a budgetary adjustment that will only be at least 5.5 billion euros in 2017. And you were still saying, Mr Montoro, in early June, just before the last general election, that there was room in the public accounts to continue lowering the IRPF next year. What you bring us here, Minister, is nothing more than a simple patch - besides a defective patch, because you forgot the situation in the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla - a defective patch of a confused, erratic and failed fiscal policy. It is just a patch, because what would have required the situation of our public accounts was an in-depth reform of the corporation tax, which the People's Party did not want to do when it had a majority to do so. A comprehensive reform that broadens the tax base, reviews the multiple exemptions and bonuses that this tax has and establishes a minimum tax on the accounting results of large companies while making the big reform that corporate tax needs. With this royal decree is maintained the reduction of the effective taxation that you introduced in 2014, and does not change anything in the asymmetry that there is between the big corporations and the smaller companies that end up paying higher effective rates than the big corporations. Minister, the formula your Government is proposing is nothing more than a cash advance, which, although permanently established, will only produce a significant increase in revenue in the first financial year, right?, because in the remaining periods the advance will be more or less offset by the negative settlement of the previous year. If this increase in split payment were ever to be effectively abolished without a substantial increase in actual taxation, what we would have that year would be a decrease in the collection of the year in which the increase in split payment would be abolished. However, in the Socialist Group we fear that if this rule is not validated the consequences may be even worse than those of allowing it to be adopted. We believe that it is urgent to prevent the repeated failure of the Government to meet the deficit target, its unfair tax cuts and electoral manoeuvres from leading to greater difficulties for the vast majority of citizens. We must not see ourselves again at the risk of a sanction; we must prevent the blocking of hundreds of millions of euros in European funds. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, and because what is being proposed is nothing more than an advance on collection, which in the end is concentrated on large companies and banks, which are the main beneficiaries of the reduction in financial costs in recent years, we will support the validation of the rule proposed by the Government. But let us not deceive ourselves, Mr Montoro, let us be aware that this decree-law does not solve any problems. That in-depth reform of the corporation tax is still pending, and I can assure you that the Socialist Group will continue to demand that reform in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u17	Mr Fernández de Moya Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Finance and Public Administrations, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to fix the position of the People's Parliamentary Group in relation to the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 2/2016, introducing tax measures aimed at reducing the public deficit, already announcing on behalf of my group our vote in favour of the validation of that Royal Decree-Law. Madam Minister for Employment, Mrs Báñez, has been mentioned on more than one occasion during this debate. Let me make it clear, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, without a doubt, that we are proud of the reform of the labour market carried out by the Government of Spain, which has made it possible to recover, nothing more and nothing less, than a million and a half of the jobs that the socialists also destroyed during the economic crisis in the Spanish nation. [[Applauds]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, when you talk about the pension fund, you see how you managed it, because probably because you did not see the economic crisis coming, because many social security contributors were lost, this government has given the use and purpose for which the pension fund was born, which has been to guarantee, nothing more and nothing less, than the pensions of our elders. [[Rumors]] That's the difference between you and us. Allow me around the scope of the royal decree-law five previous considerations.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u19	One second, Your Honor. Please, keep quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u20	Firstly, the achievement of the Community objectives at budgetary level, and in particular the reduction of the public deficit, are one of the main objectives which have underpinned the adoption of measures of economic, budgetary and public expenditure policy by President Rajoy and the Government of Spain. Secondly, the debate that brings us today about this real decree-law is that the public deficit target set by the Community authorities, through the European Union Decision 2016/1222 of the Council of the European Union, requires Spain to take extraordinary measures to meet the deficit target, set in this budget year at 4.6 of GDP. Thirdly, the People's Parliamentary Group understands that in this context the Government must necessarily increase resources from a tax point of view in order to raise the effort of large companies. And here I've missed the intervention of Podemos. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, which defines the principles of material justice of the tribute, says: Everyone will contribute to the maintenance of public spending in accordance with their economic capacity, through a fair tax system, inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness, which in no case will have a confiscatory scope. How is it possible that the Member of Podemos goes up to this rostrum to say that the validation of this decree-law violates legal certainty, violates the essential elements of the tribute, when precisely the principles of material justice of the tribute are scrupulously respected within the scope of the Spanish Constitution. Fourthly, amendments are made linked to the legal regime for split corporate tax payments, which may be subject to revision in the future depending on the evolution of the State's tax revenue. Fifthly, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law fulfils the de facto budget enabling Article 86 of the Spanish Constitution, of the extraordinary and urgent need for the adoption of provisional legislative measures linked to the achievement of the public deficit objective. Ladies and gentlemen, advancing payments is not raising taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, splitting the payment is not raising taxes. It is a matter of recovering a provision that we apply in 2013, extended in 2014 and 2015, whereby large companies make the split payment formula, which we propose precisely in the field of personal and direct taxation on the income tax of legal persons linked to corporation tax, to articulate a homogeneous collection, without touching at any time the actual rates or the rates of tax. Moreover, with this measure we are homogenizing tax revenues that correspond to the scope of the corporate tax structure. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth highlighting something that no one has said. Large companies make provisions for spending in the area of their results when they have their balance sheets, on a quarterly and monthly basis, so what we are doing is an advance in fulfilling the tax obligation linked to the very nature of the tax. There has been an intervention linked to the area of Catalonia. I ask the members of Parliament of Catalonia when they intervene to have the political honesty to recognize that the Government of Spain has been the main ally of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia, autonomous financing in force in the current budget year, an increase of 12.1%, from EUR 15,362 million to EUR 17,225 million. Catalonia, liquidity measures launched by the Government of Spain, by the Minister of Finance and Public Administrations, since 2012 58,814 million euros; Catalonia has taken 28.9%, almost 30% of all liquidity mechanisms that have been put in place from a tax and financial point of view by the Government of Spain. I would like to make it clear to you that we are indeed proud of the tax policy developed by the Spanish Government. Look, it is no coincidence that being one of the countries of the European Union that started from a situation of greatest disadvantage in order to get out of the economic crisis, let us now be the fastest growing and the most employment-creating in the European Union. In 2015, the Spanish economy grew twice as high as the EU average, four times as high as Italy, almost three times as high as France and twice as high as Germany. Our reforms have worked, our fiscal policy and our tax policy have also worked; lowering taxes has worked. That is certainly why governments with different political signs in the European Union are already announcing that they are going to lower taxes in the 2017 budgets. When they talk about meeting the deficit target they review what the memoirs published by the Council of the European Union mean: France and Italy champions in jumping public deficit; Paris has failed eleven times, Rome eight; Berlin five and Spain only four times since we joined the single currency, specifically the euro. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have made an effort in which, as the minister said in his speech, EUR 9 billion has been placed in the pocket of the Spaniards in order precisely to carry out a reactivation of consumption that determines a greater collection linked to indirect taxation. But when I hear the Socialist Group spokesman talk about what the black hole means... man, lessons to the People's Party, none! As a black hole, the accounting hole of the hidden deficit of 30 billion euros that left us the socialist government of Zapatero. [[Applauds]] That's a black hole. Look at how you were collecting in 2007, for example, in personal and direct taxation on the income tax of natural persons These are data from the liquidation of the General Intervention of the State Administration, they are not revenue forecasts, they are not linked to the legal management of public expenditure via budget: 72,614 million euros, and we, with a tax reduction of 9, billion euros, have collected - data liquidated from 2015- [[shows a graph]] EUR 72,346 million. The VAT collection, honor of the Socialist Party, in 2007, in 2007 - with crises that you still did not see, with economic growth, with the boom, with all the elements that you want to contribute to putting on the table - was 55,851 million euros, and in 2015 of 60 billion euros. [[shows a graph]] Your Honor, a little bit of political honesty when you come up to this rostrum because this government, with President Rajoy, with the finance minister at the head, has a lot to do with a budget policy full of rigour, which has returned economic growth and a fiscal policy that has put that money in the pocket of the Spaniards to return the effort that we had asked them for from the crisis of the Champion League of the Spanish economy, which you have never seen, and which this government has now returned to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] That's the difference. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with a final reflection that is essentially due to something that happened yesterday at a Spanish university. I have come up here as a Spaniard and as a deputy for my province, for Jaén, to be able to speak and express myself freely. I am also a university professor, and yesterday there was going to be a talk in a classroom that has the name and surname of a professor, a lawyer and a person from whom this year twenty years of his murder by the terrorist gang Etra: the classroom Tomás y Valiente. Today, what I am basically asking of those who encourage such conduct is that they do not flood the university with intolerance and hatred. The university will always be a critical spirit for at the same time contributing to the advancement of Spanish society. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u21	Thank you very much. In three minutes we shall begin voting. [[Pause]] Vote for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 2/2016 of 30 September, introducing tax measures aimed at reducing the public deficit. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 334 votes in favour, 246 against, 16 abstentions, 71 votes in favour, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u22	The Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have not finished the vote. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. It is therefore put to the vote as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 1 telematic vote, 333; in favour, 8; against, 257; abstentions, 67 plus 1 telematic vote, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-20-CD161020.u23	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Several ladies and gentlemen are about to leave the Chamber.-Rumores]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has not yet finished. Please, just a minute. [[Applauds]] Therefore, it will not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The meeting is now adjourned. It was two and forty minutes in the afternoon.
