ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Prior to the first item on the agenda, we will take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. In place of Don José Manuel Soria López I ask Don Francisco Domingo Cabrera García if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u3	Don Francisco Domingo Cabrera García has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[applause.-Continue the rumors]] Quiet, please. Before I begin with the rest of the items on the agenda, I would like to set the time for the accumulated vote on the proposals for legislation and non-law proposals for approximately, as we did last Tuesday, at seven and a half.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u4	We begin with item I of the agenda, concerning the consideration of proposals for legislation. It is, first, appropriate to discuss the consideration of the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group amending the system of judicial fees established by Law 10/2012 of 20 November for the exemption of non-profit entities that have opted for the special tax regime of Law 49/2002 of 23 December of special tax regime. Mrs Reyes has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a lawyer-in-Office who I have been until very recently let me tell you - in a humble tone - that I know how the courts and justice work in our country. Ladies and gentlemen of my right, do you know the reality of the courts? [[Rumors]] I'm sorry to say no, they don't know her and they don't care the least. Neither Mr Ruíz-Gallardón knew her nor did Mr Catalá, who is by the way not here; it is an important thing, so I ask you to tell him. I say - because of the presumption of innocence - that you do not know it, but understand that some may think - misconceptioned them - that it is not that you have no knowledge but that you have used justice to favor your interests. Of course I'm not the one to say something like that, we could leave it in the hands of some court or the judges. The problem is that, as they are, it could take four or five years, with a little luck, to get a sentence. The most serious thing is not ignorance, not even the fact that you don't worry; the most serious thing is that you legislated turning your back on the whole House, turning your back on society as a whole. They ignored the voices of so many professionals, legal operators and citizens who are concerned about and suffer from justice. Today it is a pride for me to represent from this rostrum all those people who raised their voices and so many affected by PP's valuing. If anything good has had this law is that it has managed to agree - against it, of course - judges, prosecutors, judicial officials, lawyers, prosecutors and citizens with all kinds of professions. Many of them joined in associations. Today we have one of them, the Tuitera Brigade, which has so much to do with this bill. They joined together and, thanks to the pressure they exerted - and certainly also to the fact that there were elections on the horizon - they managed to eliminate judicial fees for natural persons at the end of the last legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not enough. The situation of justice is worrying. It is our duty to regain the prestige of the institutions of our democratic rule of law. Citizens come to justice because from here, from the government, we are not able to solve their problems. We don't go to justice thinking: Come on, let's jam the system even more! One usually comes to justice when there is no more remedy; let's all make it very clear at once. In addition to having a great deal of responsibility for this judicial collapse, we do not intend to solve the problems by further curtailing the rights of individuals by forcing them to pay a toll for exercising a fundamental right. We need to be deeply sensitive to the needs and requirements of society and translate it into law. That's our main mission. The Judicial Fees Act has done just the opposite, preventing access to justice for many citizens; it has prevented above all that middle class impoverished by the crisis, either directly or through small businesses or non-profit entities. Let us refresh our memory a little: in 2011, November 20, the PP wins the elections with an absolute majority, 186 deputies; a year later, 2012, the same date, November 20, you decide to celebrate that you are one year in government with the known Law on Judicial Fees that, thanks to that majority you obtained, could be processed urgently. It was so urgent, so urgent that they didn't even have the tax agency's forms in place to make the payment effective. They were in a hurry, ladies and gentlemen. This law was a real slap in the face for our democratic rule of law. The law was rejected by all parliamentary groups, by all sectors of the legal world and by the majority of citizens. Interestingly, this law also begins with a non-small excuse saying: 'The right to effective judicial protection should not be confused with the benefit of free justice.' Thank you very much for the clarification. Reveal this sentence with a ruling of the Constitutional Court issued a few months ago; the Constitutional Court does, just that court which enjoys such good reputation for its high level of independence from the Executive! We don't even talk about politicizing justice better, do we? Almost all political parties represented in this House in previous legislatures have contributed to this politicization. That judges should be forced to sign a document by committing themselves to the so-called Government of Change, as some propose, nor would I define it exactly as judicial independence. Let's go back to the law. In the opinion of legal experts and many judges who have wanted to translate it into their judgments, the Law on Judicial Fees violates this law, against our Constitution, the basis of our democracy; it violates article 24, which says it very clearly: 'Everyone has the right to obtain the effective guardianship of judges...'. [[Shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] When a person earns 1,000 euros, or even less, and therefore does not have access to the benefit of free justice, and on top of that he is charged an unorthodox fee for filing a claim, he will think very much or directly about it because he lives with the just money to arrive at the end of the month, but his rights cease to be legitimate. What happens is that the high fees restrict the possibility of defending these rights in the judicial process. The same will be true of small businesses that have been severely affected by the crisis and non-profit entities that defend collective interests and that can be left unprotected by the rate. There is no justification for such small entities to pay exactly the same as a large company, for example a bank or an insurer, which constantly resorts to justice, has lawyers hired on payroll and can even deduct tax on the cost of the fee. We cannot create toll freeways in the exercise of fundamental rights and put citizens and small businesses at a disadvantage against those big ones, even against public administrations, which do not pay any fees either. This law has affected and affects people with names and surnames, workers who suffer discriminatory practices in their businesses; it affects small micro-enterprises who, with the crisis, have to close, among other things, because they have not been able to recover their credits in the legal process; it affects victims of medical negligence who have not in themselves or through entities been able to pay the fees to resort to insurers who have been able to do so; it has affected citizens or SMEs who have been adversely affected by the development of an urban plan in relation to a public administration that is constantly resorting to it; it also affects consumers who individually or through associations have been subjected to the introduction of abusive clauses in contracts with banking entities We, from Citizens, Mr. Iglesias - who is not -, gentlemen of Podemos, do not sell prefernts, as you have said; on the contrary, some of those we are in Citizens have defended these people in the legal process and we intend to continue to do so from this House. [[Soil clauses, swaps, preference clauses, etc.]] [[Applauds]] When the PP launched this law it used different arguments to defend it. Time has shown that not one is valid. It was claimed, on the one hand, that judicial collapse was to be avoided, although this argument would in no way have upheld the limitation of a fundamental right; but the reality is that it has not been so either. The judicial deadlock today, according to the Ombudsman's own report, has not diminished. With the data we have it is clear that if someone abuses justice it is precisely the one who has no problem paying the fees. On the other hand, they also ensured that the money collected would be used to cover free justice. Today we hear well-founded complaints from the General Council of Law and practically from all the bar associations because what was said has not been fulfilled at all. The Minister of Justice himself - who is not - has stated that the money collected had passed to the common box of the State, without knowing exactly where. The summary of all this is that the law has not met any of the objectives it claimed to have. It is clear that it had and has a mere collectory character. Yes, court fees have been withdrawn for individuals, which we greatly appreciate, but that is not enough. As Montesquieu said, that great forgotten, one thing is not fair because it is law, it must be law because it is just. Let us make this law fairer and extend the exemption from the tax to SMEs and non-profit entities, behind them there are many people to whom we continue to cut rights. This will be a small step towards improving our justice and perhaps also, in a way, the economy, because this small step amounts to EUR 90 million, here we have it. [[Show the House some documents]] We have developed an economic memory that upholds the law. It would be 90 million that would be maintained in those small businesses that are the economic engine of this country. Let's start today for this and go on with much more. We want a justice that all citizens can access regardless of their level of income. We want to end that difference between justice for the rich and justice for the poor. We want fast, effective and quality justice. This is not achieved, ladies and gentlemen, by shortening periods of instruction and allowing many causes to go unpunished, given the scarcity of resources. Do you really want to end corruption? Let us ensure that justice acts independently, equip it with means and let it do its job without putting our sails into it. If we do not commit ourselves once and for all to the reforms that justice needs, we are at grave risk. Citizens' lack of confidence in the system can become irreversible. We cannot let that happen, it is our responsibility to work for the citizenry and we must be very attentive to everything we are asked to do. The situation of justice is worrying, it is our obligation to regain its prestige. That is why, as a first step, I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this bill that we have tabled in this House since Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes. No group has requested the use of the counter turn; therefore, we have moved on to the position-setting exercise, starting with Mr Bataller from the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, in the preamble to Law 10/2012, on fees in the field of the administration of justice, which we are going to reform today, we find falsehood and contempt. It is false that the fees have enabled an improvement in the financing of the judicial system and, in particular, of free legal assistance. It has not yet been possible to know what part of what the State has collected through this law has effectively stopped those who use the right to free justice. Just over a year ago, since Compromís, we were asking the government where the more than 500 million euros collected had been collected then through the judicial fees imposed by former Minister Gallardón, already in the remote memory. The Government's response was simply that it did not know the fate of that money. This ignorance does not prevent the autonomous communities from continuing to bear on their ribs the bulk of this burden that has not yet been alleviated. Thus, a few days ago the Valencian Generalitat has had to pay almost 7 million euros to meet the fees of lawyers and prosecutors of the office shift that had become in the last quarter of 2015, in order to get up to date on their payments, as the current Valencian Government has been doing regularly. As for the contempt I have indicated before that there is also in the preamble to this law, we see that there is guilt on the part of the citizenry for the supposed collapse of the administration of justice, whose modernization process has precisely been paralysed by the Government of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, are people bad and irresponsible for making use of a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution, especially when in a time of crisis recourse to jurisdiction is the only way they can try to recover their outstanding claims to enforce their rights? Free access to judicial guardianship is a historic achievement, it is a right protected at the highest level by our Constitution, and it was mistreated and denounced in 2012 by a government insensitive to the real needs of the people; a government that suffered a package of prejudices against the open exercise of rights and freedoms, with that arguable mentality that then led many speakers of the most provincial reactionary to proclaim that it had to end with that of the total free. Of course, the system before the fees had its elements of balance, because it is equally demagogic, as the preamble of the law says, that it can be obviated that litigants who abuse the system with unfounded claims are already punished by sentencing them to pay the costs caused. Do you think that it should be paid for the simple access to the exercise of a fundamental right? Because, if so, should we also pay a fee for exercising our right to vote? Should we also pay a fee for exercising our constitutional right of petition? The The Law of Taxes has proved to be merely collectory, dissuasive, and it is time to get rid of this scourge. In Compromís we have been rejecting the material and ideological content of the generalization of judicial fees, because justice must be paid through taxes, as well as health, without fees or respite. The outgoing Government has acted as a lender, because it confused us with the need to lower taxes and at the same time slashed our pockets to take out rates that are not really such, because they have not been intended to compensate for the cost of the service provided but to meet general budgetary needs. They are therefore taxes that have been set outside the constitutional parameters, violating the essential principles of any imposition, and especially not taking into account the contribution capacity of each person or the principle of progressiveness. The outgoing Government has spent four years writing its particular dictionary of the restrictions that we are now rewriting step by step in this start of the legislature, plenary session. We start with the P of the Toledo Pact, finally recovered; we continue in another Plenary with the S, of interprofessional minimum wage of shame, which we will increase; and today we are with the T of rates that bleed to those who are not due and benefit from not knowing who. In Compromís we will vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group; a partial solution, but we support it as a preliminary step towards a complete future repeal of this law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u8	Thank you, Mr. Bataller. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. In recent times, in particular on 5th of this month, the Commission of Justice adopted a proposal for a law submitted by the Parliamentary Group Democrácia i Llibertat calling on the Government to add to the list of subjective exemptions from the judicial fees of Law 10/2012 non-profit entities that are covered by the tax regime 49/2002 and businesses with a small economic dimension, according to the corporation tax. This proposal for a law on Democracy i Llibertat adopted by the Commission of Justice was aimed at recovering the content of Law 25/1986, which abolished, at the beginning of the democratic recovery, judicial fees, thus following the path undertaken by the 2015 reforms of Law 1/1996, on free legal assistance, which exempts certain natural and legal persons from the fees; and by Royal Decree-Law 1/2015 of 27 February, on a second chance mechanism, which in its article 11 exempts legal persons from the fees. Now the Citizens Parliamentary Group presents us with a proposal for a law that apparently has the same object and purpose. The purpose is to incorporate the abovementioned legal persons into the subjective exemptions: non-profit entities covered by the special tax regime 49/2002 and undertakings and entities with a small economic dimension. And it has the same purpose: to provide these legal persons with access to justice, either because in many cases they operate in areas of activity of general interest, such as the defence before the courts of collective interests that would be unprotected without their assistance, or because they are small entities or SMEs, i.e. those whose turnover in the previous tax period does not exceed EUR 10 million, as provided for by the company tax, and therefore, because of this limited economic capacity, given the current economic crisis, they would not be able to access justice. This, ladies and gentlemen, would be the content of the proposal for a law that citizens present to us today if we stick to the title of the rule and its explanatory statement, but the proposal in its operative part makes a broader and deeper reform of the Tax Act. That is why we said that this proposal for a law appears to have the same object and purpose as the non-legislative proposal adopted by the Commission of Justice at the initiative of Democrácia i Llibertat. This would in itself be nothing unique, except that they do not tell us and because that does We Can, which preaches just the opposite about transparency one day yes and another too. The reform of article 4.2 of Law 10/2012 is not limited to introducing small businesses or non-profit entities to a special tax regime of Law 49/2002 in this subjective area of Article 4.2 and leaving the rest as it was. It also abolishes the benefit of exemption from court fees to legal persons with recognition of the benefit of free legal assistance. When legal uncertainty is created, when a legal person is granted the benefit recognized in the Law on Free Legal Assistance, it includes exemption from payment of court fees. It also abolishes the benefit of the Public Prosecutor's Office and also abolishes the benefit of the General Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities and the local authorities and their public bodies dependent on them all. It also abolishes the current benefit of being exempt from payment of fees to the General Courts, to the legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Communities and, however, introduces a new subparagraph (b) with the following wording: Entities totally or partially exempt from corporate tax are exempt from fees. And who are they? We go to Article 9 of the company tax, exemptions, and paragraph 1 sets the total exemptions. It no longer refers to the Administration, such as the Fees Act, but in a generic sense refers to the Autonomous Communities and the State, as well as to the entities governed by public law and the autonomous bodies dependent on them. It also excludes, which is a novelty, the Banco de España and also the social security management entities that were not exempted by the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Also to the Spanish Institute and the real language academies and also to a number of public agencies and agencies mentioned both in the Lofage, already repealed, and in other provisions. In Article 9(2) of the company tax - partial exemptions - we meet with non-profit entities and institutions. They substantially broaden the scope of the title of the proposal and of the explanatory statement because not all non-profit entities and institutions were exempt, but only those admitted to a special tax regime and not all, especially those that were non-profit, and here this exception is removed. Also the unions, federations and confederations of cooperatives and we don't know why. And why not the cooperatives? Also to professional colleges and professional associations, a new subjective exemption, and to the employment promotion funds of Law 27/1984. Also something new for the exemption of the fees, to the mutual collaborators of the Social Security and to the entities under public law, which does not cease to be a paradox, Ports of the State and those of the autonomous communities that if they were autonomous agencies or public entities under private law were excluded from the fees, but if they are not, they are not. In short, a genuine gallimacy made of referrals and counter-remissions with reference even to rules that no longer exist. What's the point of all this? Do you consider, Mr de Citizens, that this way of proceeding, partially concealing the object of the reform by not saying anything about it either in the explanatory statement or in the title of the rule itself, regenerates the institutions? About debates to society? Does it deepen the transparency of parliamentary activity? Does it include in the legislative dossier the efforts and work underlying the proposal? Where's your manic legislative footprint? That which you preach to facilitate the understanding of the origin, as well as the justification and argumentation of any proposal and the principles of good regulation? Where is legal certainty? What about transparency? And simplicity? What about accessibility? And effectiveness? And the good legal technique? Finally, do you consider that all this contributes to the formation of a responsible opinion of the citizen? I'm done. We will vote in favour, not so much for its content, that we will amend it in due course, but to walk towards effective judicial protection and its access, which the existing rates hinder. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u10	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Ciuró has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today I rise to the rostrum to discuss admission to this bill. As Mr Legarda of the Vasco Group has announced, it is true that my parliamentary group in the last Committee on Justice wanted to put forward a non-legislative proposal on this matter to ensure that the new parties in the House would vote in the same direction as they promised to vote on the initiatives they would put forward, that is, a kind of safe conduct to ensure that if, as it seems, there is no Government, the same vote as the one voted on the day of the non-legislative proposal, that is, progress towards the abolition of judicial fees. That non-law proposal was approved and today we seem to be taking the first step in dealing with its actual demolition. We agree. We will vote in favour because we are convinced that too high rates do not help in any way to improve access to justice. The introduction of this bill follows an open path, a second rectification because the first came from the hands of the government party itself at the time, when it withdrew the fees to natural persons. Good initiative, correcting is wise, and we are now going to get the second; that is, that neither legal persons nor non-governmental organizations pay these rates of access to justice. Mr Legarda, of the Basque Group, has rightly pointed out in scrupulous detail the texts which they bring today to deal with and which, fortunately, are and will be subject to amendments in this parliamentary term or certainly in a future one. It is true that more concrete action should be taken, such as giving legal operators security in order to seek in the norm those solutions that are necessary for each case, not to fall into the noise or the confusion. Judicial fees and their implementation or repeal must clearly know what they are due to and who they affect. We do not want to favour liberalisation in order to have access to justice for those who have the most means to be able to sue as many times as they want and to make a tortuous use of justice for a tax benefit in order to be able to recover some taxes eventually. And we also want to make sure that the companies that have to pay those fees, their collection goes to the end that it should go, to cover the cost of justice or at least part of it. The fees are for this purpose, i.e., to cover the cost of the service. I would therefore like to say that this service is currently largely provided by the autonomous communities with competence in this field, which deal with administrative costs, staff costs and resource costs in order to be able to meet the complaints that are presented every day in the courts to thousands. That is why these fees should be used to return the cost to that Administration which has the compensation. The Tax Act which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, adopted has not served at the end of which it was designed, which, according to the words of the Vice-President of the Government, was now in office, to achieve equity in access to justice. Why? Because they said that these rates would fully revert to free justice, i.e., on duty duty. In other words, those who have the most economic difficulties have access to the fundamental right to effective judicial protection. No, because on the one hand they have neither collected what was planned - I think I remember that the EUR 300 million planned for the first year remained in a few 105 - nor have they served to help free justice because at the moment it is not known, as has been said before, where the capital raised by the implementation of these rates has gone. Therefore, they made us pack with mill wheels, as we say in Catalonia in a gross translation into Spanish. True, they have deceived us with the purpose of this law and now we want to rectify because, as I said before, correcting is wise. We will support the handling of this non-legislative proposal. We cannot continue to allow justice to try to alleviate its endemic financing problem by increasing the cost of its access. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that justice needs profound reforms. It is a slow justice, it is a raging justice and it is also a justice that does not serve the citizens in the way and way that they should do it, that is, more quickly. We do not cover places that should necessarily be covered, we do not review the objective criteria to be able to access a quality service, and we do not face its reform from the point of view of rigour, but rather put patches on the way access to it in the form of payments to the public - if you want to access it, it pays - because we have a financing problem that you are unable to solve, because you have never sat down to try to solve it; not only you, because this comes not only from your stage of government, but from previous governments. [[Rumors]] I would therefore dare to say that, in order to regain the prestige of justice and the faith of citizens in the judiciary, an effort is essential today, which is an objective that every State should have. We need an approach to this reform of justice and we are not going to get it on the basis of the Tax Act, but on the basis of making a public service accessible, equipped with adequate means, respectful of the competitive system and therefore closer and more agile when it comes to service. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u13	I conclude by reiterating that today with the consideration of this proposal for a law - if that is the case - we are resuming the path towards a more accessible justice. Democracy and Llibertat will therefore vote in favour of its consideration. In any case, the amendments we can make to enrich the text, let us hope that they will help to make it clear and easily accessible to the legal operators who have to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ciuro. Mrs Capella has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u15	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. There is no rule of law if the guarantee of legitimate rights and interests is prevented before the judge. This is proclaimed in article 1 of the Spanish Constitution when it states that Spain is a social and democratic State governed by law. Article 24 of the Constitution also states that the right to effective judicial protection, the fundamental right of citizens and the corollary of the rule of law, must be guaranteed. Therefore, the big question we should ask ourselves is whether the provision of effective judicial guardianship is a public service or not. For Esquerra Republicana it is a public service and we have always defended it. Act No. 10/2012 of 20 November 2012 regulating - and thus rebooting - certain fees in the field of the Administration of Justice meant and meant a real boulder for the consideration of the administration of justice as a public service. It was a blow to the right to effective judicial protection and, therefore, to the equality of all citizens before the law. The entry into force of the Fees Act meant a return to the past. Why does the People's Party feel so nostalgic about the past? The re-establishment of judicial fees in general, and in particular with the amounts set out in the aforementioned law, had and has from the point of view of the Republican Left a dual purpose. On the one hand, it had a clearly collective purpose and, on the other, a deterrent purpose. A collection goal, because it has not at all meant an improvement in the administration of justice or in free justice, that is, it has not reversed in the public service itself. Where have the revenues raised with the court fees gone? It was said that the State's common fund, but it is not yet answered if there has been a reinvestment and increase in the State's General Budgets with respect to the Administration of Justice. A dissuasive purpose of resorting to the courts, of access by citizens to effective judicial protection in defense of their rights and freedoms. It is true that the Government rectified, but it did so under pressure from the Ombudsman herself, in response to the innumerable complaints she had received. Critics of the law have been widespread. Rates were said to be not an exception but to be the general rule. The law did not take into account economic capacity when there were fees in respect of natural persons and not in respect of legal persons. It shall respect the principle of equality, proportionality and progressive taxation as set out in article 31 of the Constitution. The fees are very high. If they are not subscribed before the start of the process - i.e. if they are not paid - it means the preclusion of the process itself and the loss of action. There is no split payment, double payment in the case of cassation as the deposit and fee is required and the fee is not returned in the case of dues dues since it is not included in the cost assessment. In this legislature, and whenever it governs, the People's Party has always had very clear objectives that it achieves without blinking, without doubt: cuts in health, in social rights, in education and in justice. In short, it has been the government of the few, the installed and the powerful, in front of the many who always lose something or lose everything when they rule the right. The imposition of judicial fees meant at the time and still means the limit on access to the defence of rights and freedoms, the possibility of litigation only for those who have economic capacity; a justice tailored to the rich, a way of privatizing the public law of effective judicial guardianship. With the reintroduction of judicial fees, the PP sent a double message: on the one hand, it told us that justice is collapsing - by the way, it is true that justice is collapsing, but to whom should we blame the collapse of justice? Suddenly I would say that to the incompetence of many of the ministers who have passed through the Ministry of Justice -. On the other hand, it held the citizens responsible for this collapse. The PP was based on a perverse premise: it is the fault of citizens, who fight too much or are compulsive litigators; presumption of guilt always of the citizenry. The PP knows and knew in advance that the ills that they inflict on the Administration of Justice come from afar, from a historical economic under-staffing. She has always been the cinder or poor sister of the State's General Budgets. He knew of the need for a comprehensive reform of the Administration of Justice, the democratization of the Administration of Justice, the rethinking of the judicial plant, the judicial bodies, the establishment of mediation, for example, the Zero Paper. Reforms, always postponed, that have been limited to partial reforms, since the Spanish State has never wanted to address the modernization of justice; surely because of that attavistic fear of those who have ruled in case one day they can reach the action of this justice. Despite the poor government of justice, both in the ministry and in this last epoch of the General Council of the Judiciary, it operates by the inoculation of judges, magistrates and magistrates, secretaries, prosecutors, lawyers and prosecutors who have made the profession an authentic act of faith. They should know - I'm sure they know, but they don't know it because it suits them - that a country's level of democratic quality and its level of development is measured by the quality and functioning of its administration of justice, and Spain is certainly not a country that leads, rather the opposite. Just look at the ratio of judges per 10,000 inhabitants, which is one of the lowest in the European Union, 10 per 10,000. The PP is what it wants and has always wanted, a democracy of low quality, a impoverishment of the citizenry in every sense, and above all the main one in the loss of their rights, in the capacity to be able to defend us against those who correspond, against the State, against individuals and against legal persons. The law was adopted with unfavourable and negative reports from the General Council of the Judiciary, the General Council of the Bar, the General Council of the College of Prosecutors, with the whole legal world against it. It is a legal text lacking legitimacy, reasonableness and proportionality. The most indecent of all this is that the purpose pursued has not been fulfilled; the economic purpose of the fees - as I said earlier - was nothing other than to reverse such revenues in the improvement of the administration of justice and free justice, but it has not been so. In Catalonia, where an average of EUR 60 million per year has been raised, the State has not earmarked, nor has it reinvested a cent of euro in the improvement of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. For these reasons, Esquerra Republicana will vote in favour at the beginning of the procedure of this bill and, in any case, we will amend what we do not like, but we will vote in favour. Once again - as we have always said and at the time we opposed the Fees Act - we say again no to court fees. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Yllanes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Be my first words to express the privilege of representing from this rostrum more than 5 million people who voted for Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea in the December 20 elections. Let me also thank the Tuitera Brigade for the work they have done to ensure that this bill actually sees the light in this House. [[Applauds]] Law 10/2012 reimposes judicial fees in Spain on a general basis following its abolition by Law 25/1986, which in its explanatory statement justified such abolition in order to enable all citizens to obtain justice regardless of their economic or social situation. We are already anticipating that we agree with the spirit of the proposal made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, although - and we say from the beginning - it is short and we should go a little further. But, in short, we believe that it is a good expression of how when there is political will we can agree with Citizens on some issues of democratic regeneration and with the Socialist Party on some socio-economic issues. Since the entry into force of Law 10/2012, numerous issues of unconstitutionality and remedies for amparo have been raised. The Ombudsman has recommended its amendment. Both Justices for Democracy and the Legal Union of the Administration of Justice, for two examples, have recommended their repeal; and the Constitutional Court has warned that if it were shown that the amount of the fee is so high that it prevents in practice the exercise of the fundamental right or hinders it, in a specific case, in unreasonable terms, it could be considered incompatible with article 24.1 of the Constitution. We are not talking about matters of ordinary legality. We are talking about the right to effective judicial protection protected in the Magna Charter and that the right to access to jurisdiction is its first practical form. The Constitutional Court, following the European courts, only admits fees when, because of their amount, they do not prevent access to jurisdiction for economic reasons; this is precisely the effect of Law 10/2012, since the economic capacity of the taxable person is not taken into account in the establishment of the fees. In short, a justice for those who can afford it. From Podemos we believe that the defence of an independent justice is inseparable from a broader defence of public services in general, all the more so since this Government, whose Minister of Justice remains today in virtuality, has cut in justice just as it has done in health or education. Judicial fees are consistent with the introduction of the health co-op or with the rise in university tuition. In Podemos we believe that the costs of public services, such as health, education or justice, must be met by tax collection. All the above is not an obstacle for us to consider it appropriate to maintain the co-op formula in justice for large companies, which are identified as such under corporate tax legislation, precisely because of their great economic capacity. In fact, they are the main users of the Administration of Justice through their legal offices and therefore responsible for the delay in the courts and tribunals. They believe it is a sarcasm to attribute to the remedies of individuals against the fines the collapse of the contentious-administrative jurisdiction, knowing intentionally that the claim that gave rise to the question of unconstitutionality, resolved precisely by the ruling of the Constitutional Court 20/2012, was a conflict between insurers and by the scandalous amount of 325 euros. However, it must be avoided at all costs that this rate paid, as large companies are the main users of the Administration of Justice, is ultimately passed on to citizens and can even be counted as expenditure, taxed and then recovered from the opposite party by cost assessment. It is therefore also necessary to reform the Civil Prosecution Act, expressly excluding the judicial rate from the ratio of concepts included in the cost assessment. Therefore, in due course we will propose a double amendment of the Civil Procedure Act, repealing section 241.1, ordinal 7, and adding a paragraph 3 to section 241, with the following text: In no case shall the fee for the exercise of jurisdiction be included in the costs of the proceedings. If we consider the court fee to be a tax, its taxable person is the only person who is required by law to bear its costs, so it is not possible to claim that the payment to the party convicted on costs will be passed on. In other words, the obligation to pay the fee derives from a legal relationship of a public nature and of a tax nature that links the legal person's payment to the State, but which does not at all affect the legal-private relationship that gave rise to the procedure. The preamble to Act No. 10/2012 specified that citizens' assumption of judicial fees was aimed at rationalizing the exercise of jurisdictional authority, in other words: and without the usual circumstances that so much the new legislator likes to reduce litigation, in addition to providing greater resources for improving the financing of the judicial system, and in particular free legal assistance. This latter objective is unknown if it has been achieved in practice, since we lack data on the amount of fees that have been used in the financing of the judicial system during all these years. Similarly, we also do not know what amount has been collected to finance the free legal aid service and what percentage of the cost of that service has been borne by those autonomous communities that have transferred jurisdiction over justice. The first objective, to reduce litigation, was solemnly proclaimed by the then Minister of Justice, fortunately resigned today, Mr Ruíz-Gallardón, as an achievement derived from the Tax Act, concealing that what had been caused was that individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises should give up litigation, taking into account the economic effort that was supposed to seek the guardianship of judges and courts for their legitimate claims, while large companies, for which the fees to be paid were an insignificant part in their accounts, regularly went to the Administration of Justice in defence of their legitimate interests. To sum up, Law 10/2012 further deepened the perception that justice, far from being equal for all, was reserved in civil and contentious-administrative orders for those who could pay it. The two great tools for resolving the continuing neglect of the public service of justice that your Government, Minister, has had to distinguish between rich and poor, between weak and powerful, through the recovery of judicial fees in civil and contentious-administrative orders. While in the criminal jurisdictional order what they were most concerned about was how to ensure impunity for cases of alleged corruption in which public offices of the People's Party were being investigated one day after another, finding as a redemptive formula the one we have come to call Berlusconi law, for what is done as the person who created it, drastically limiting the deadlines for the investigation of cases, by amending article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which they adopted instead of resolving once and for all the problem of corruption - structural - that has dragged their party for many years, and achieving, with this reform of article 324, the unanimous criticism of all the legal operators of this country, regardless of their participation in the Administration of Justice, or whatever their ideological attachment. [[Applauds]] We have stated on numerous occasions that the mandate of this Government has meant a tragic four-year period for the public service that the Administration of Justice must dispense. Too bad the minister isn't here to hear it, although I've already had a chance to tell him personally. It has been legislated at the stroke of a misunderstanding principle of opportunity, when in reality what was being done was social opportunism and punitive populism, while living in our 19th century procedural system tools to solve the challenges and problems of the 21st century. In addition, the budget allocation for the Ministry of Justice has been drastically reduced, slowing down the creation of new courts and tribunals and optimizing the work of existing ones. The offer of new places for judges and prosecutors has also drastically decreased, deepening our status as one of the countries of the European Union's tail van in the ratio of judges to inhabitants. It has also led to a precarious public service that only the efforts of all people who are involved in every day in all areas and aspects of the administration of justice can remedy to prevent the collapse. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u18	Thank you, Mr. Yllanes. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u19	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the House, as the rest of the Members who have come up to this rostrum, to the Tuitera Brigade. He must be acknowledged for the effort they have made to ensure that a debate on the Tax Act is put on the table. The Socialist Group will be in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group calling for the reform of Law 10/2012, which regulates certain rates, in particular in the administration of justice, which has meant a real democratic regression. We have already spoken in the Committee on Justice - reference has been made here - about the non-legislative proposal made in that case by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Liberal Democrats, and we anticipate that we will be submitting amendments to the text in order to contribute to the purpose of this initiative, in any case, to quality justice and to the service of the citizens. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the PP in these four years has applied the so-called State Deconstruction Manual. He has dared to dismantle the institutional, territorial and substantive architecture, as we have known it so far, without consensus, nightly and through the back door, based on decree-laws. It began with the municipalities and their local reform; then it touched on autonomy with restrictive criteria of budgetary stability, and simultaneously deconstructing and extinguishing substantive rights such as the reform of the Criminal Code. In justice the attacks suffered have been insistent, incisive and incessant. We all know that justice needs a profound approach, I would add that it is revolutionary, as my group's spokesman in the Committee on Justice would say; a fundamental transformation and from consensus, a state pact for a common project. Given the way the People's Party has left us, with justice we will have to take a deep look. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Law 10/2012, on fees, was a stellar action by the minister of the field - we could not say exactly which, if Mr Gallardón, if Mr Catalá, and the government in office. It is a new piece in the deconstruction of the rule of law as we have known so far. This law has closed the door to the recognition of the rights and freedoms of citizens, basically of the weak. It was born with the frontal opposition of all sectors - said the proposer who has risen to the rostrum - from the initial rejection of all the political forces, passing through the legal operators, the unions, the citizenship in general and reaching the organs of the State, such as the General Council of the Judiciary, jurisdictional bodies and even the People's Party itself, which does not listen to me, but we have been doing so for four years. It has even been Kafkian; it turns out that a law that is four years old has been amended twice, by decree-laws. Words remain, but it is between legislative indignity and demeanor. From the People's Party's passage by the Government in the area of justice two maxims have emerged: one, the weak remain outside their rights and have been de facto expelled, and two, justice is for those who can afford it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fees imposed by the People's Party are a trap, a fraud. What surprises me is that they have fallen into this fraud from Citizens, Democracy and Llibertat even Podemos, has surprised me frankly. The People's Party, as the Member of Compromís has said, takes out from the gossip a law of fees that, according to the statement, will make justice sustainable, so, of course, as the benefit of free justice. That's a fraud, it's a trap, it's a bust on the citizenry. The People's Party has applied to rajatabla what was said in its State Deconstruction Manual. He explained to me, ladies and gentlemen, linking a fee to a right, the right to free legal aid, which is provided for in article 119 of the Constitution, is the deconstruction of a right. Because at first they will link that funding to that right and will gradually reduce the budget allocation to make it insignificant. I refer you to the 'Diary of Sessions' of October 22, 2012, when Minister Gallardón has already missed a little the intention of this law. This law did not seek to reduce litigation, that is false; this law sought to reduce rights, this law intended that the right to the benefit of free justice should be pure charity. Gentlemen of Podemos-In Comú Podemos-In Marea, I am surprised that they follow the game to the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The People's Party has transformed justice into not two, but at least three speeds, and on an ideological issue. To you, gentlemen of the People's Party, of course everything that is of general interest, well common, everything that sounds to the public causes you to blush, and I say it from all respect. Justice is a value in itself, it is a higher value in our legal system that permeates our democratic system and the judiciary is a public service designed to enable citizens to resolve their disputes and secure their rights. There are problems in justice, of course, but they are not solved by a fee law. Justice requires a profound transformation and the spokesman for Justice said so the other day. There is a need for a transformation into normative, organizational and technological depth. The rest are patches. Of course, this transformation has to be from consensus, always from consensus. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the modernization of our justice that the Socialist Party presented and approved from the consensus and that the People's Party left in a drawer is urgently needed. I think that has already been said by the Member of Compromís, the financing of essential services, such as education, health, social services and justice, has to be through taxes, through collection. To impose a rate weakens justice, the rate distorts the very essence of justice. I said at the outset that we will support the Citizens initiative, although I think we need to do a joint and global reflection on justice. I say this to the Citizen proposer: we will give them support but not with our eyes closed. Gentlemen of Citizens, I have to reproach you, it tastes bad, but I have to. I ask you to reflect because what I'm going to tell you has a bench bias on the right, on my right, not on yours. If it is true that they want a progressive and reformist government and they will always want it, take out the paragraph of the explanatory statement of the proposed law that blames citizens and legal operators for the collapse in the administration of justice. That's fake. I want to think it's a mistake, I don't want to think it's a slip. The Socialist Group is certainly not going to accept this. I have already indicated before, we all know that the state of the administration of justice is delicate but please do not go to the thesis of the People's Party that in the end, with the reforms it has come to carry out, it ends up criminalizing pensioners, workers, strikers - with article 307 ter of the Penal Code, for example - protesters and so on. The Socialist Group, to which I have the honour to represent at this time, will support your initiative, and we will take one more step, we will propose amendments and we will propose a pact, as I said at the beginning, for a common project that will produce results and cover the needs of citizens. In the area of the amendments, we will make three additions to the subject-matter of the exemption, such as non-governmental organisations, which we believe must have special protection because they defend collective interests as well as diffuse interests; the communities of owners and, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises, to which we will give a much more objective definition. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a state pact that guarantees our model of coexistence, which is already supported by the vast majority of political formations that we are represented here. All representatives have come to this rostrum and I hope that the People's Party will join this good understanding and consensus. To date, 91% of the initiatives discussed in committees and in plenary have been approved, which is a 180-degree change. Ladies and gentlemen, we have renewed this Congress by more than 60% and, let me tell you that 40% of us are Members. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u21	The average age is 48 years. I want to finish quickly, but let me tell you something. 95% of Members of Parliament have university studies because at one point someone tried to face us.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u22	Mrs. Perea, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u23	I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, this in itself is a change in the way we do, understand, live. We are different generations, but we all have in common a goal, a reality: a part or all of our personal and collective history we have shared in our democratic history. When we get out there, we'll have to be accountable to the people who are waiting for us. That will be inevitable. Someone may have the temptation to settle in pride, to settle in tactics and rhetoric to gain wills that, as he called Montaigne, could be deceptive and misleading. But they are very wrong - calm, Mr. Churches, that does not go for you -.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u24	Mrs. Perea, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u25	I'm done. But it would not be too much, Mr. Iglesias, to read the chapter on the vanity of the Montaigne Trials. I imagine you've read them; take a look at it. Ladies and gentlemen, history puts things in place. It will take longer, it will take less, but the state pact is necessary. We formulate and, of course, position ourselves in favour of the Citizens' proposal, but with the prevention that justice needs more, a fundamental proposal is needed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zoido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u27	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank all the voters of the People's Party for giving us victory in the last general elections. I am very proud that it has been so and to represent my group today. Thank you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me at the outset to make a brief reference to Mrs Reyes Rivera. You have come with the new forms of your new party, but I believe that this should not be at odds with the lack of respect for others. He has come to make sure that we in the People's Group do not know, do not know, have no idea what is happening in justice. All I ask is a little respect. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all of us in this House are fully aware of the intention of the Citizens' Group in bringing this debate here today. It is a debate that comes at a time when it is possible that the Chambers will be dissolved within 15 days. It has come to be said by some that there has been no loyalty with the handling in the Commission of Justice of a non-law proposal of similar content. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the least for you, who were bringing this proposal here today, is the content of the proposal for a law, that is the least, because you seek to portray that those who occupy this bench, that we have won the elections, we are alone; that we are insensitive, because you have said it on several occasions, and that all the reforms that we have made during these four - for me beneficial - years are for nothing and that we must do little less than an amendment to the whole. Despite the short time I have, I'm going to try to beat him. Well, I'm going to tell you, Mrs. Reyes Rivera, that neither that is true nor will they achieve its purpose. We are not going to oppose the timely handling of this bill with the aim, Mrs Reyes Rivera, of improving the efficiency of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, some of us who have memories and do not believe that the world began yesterday - and as Aristotle said, thanks to that memory we give in men what is called experience - experience tells us that we had never been guaranteed the right to effective judicial protection as it is now, thanks to the Government of Mariano Rajoy. And experience also tells us that the right to free justice had never been recognized and guaranteed before, regardless of the economic resources available, as it is now - and I will show it later - thanks to the reforms carried out by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. It is true that the legislation has undergone changes in recent years. It's true. But it is also true that all these changes have been taking place with the intention of adapting the standard to improve it where it was needed and where imperfections had been detected, the final result being much more satisfactory. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to continue in this debate, we want to deepen it with rigour and seriousness, as we have been doing so far, from now until the end of the process, if it takes effect, of this proposal of law, with a constructive desire and not to get easy headlines or to destroy achieved achievements. And all this despite the fact that we are convinced that in the previous legislature the government of Mariano Rajoy has promoted historical advances that would justify the existence of this law on their own. Ladies and gentlemen, I used to talk about having to remember and quoting Aristotle, and it was also Aristotle who said that it can't be and not be something at the same time and in the same way. And I say this because it seems that there are those who forget very soon, and it was the Law of 3 November 2009, which, by the way, reformed procedural legislation, which for the first time introduced a judicial deposit for appeals against judicial decisions. And your ladies and gentlemen know perfectly well who was ruling in 2009, who was no other than Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, and he has already brought that judicial deposit in order to be able to file an appeal. It is very curious - here we have heard it in the last intervention - that some now say that the payment of fees is an obstacle to access to justice when in the statement of reasons of that law it is justified to pay the deposit prior to the filing of an appeal - note, says textually - to deter those who resort without any legal basis, so that the proceedings do not continue. How is it possible that in 2009 it was logical and advisable to do so, and not now? Ladies and gentlemen, one cannot defend one thing and the other just because it is in the government or not. There is a need for coherence in politics, a great deal of coherence. Interestingly, the March 2011 Law on the Reform of the Civil Prosecution Act increased the first instance rate to virtually all civil trials. And I don't need to remind you who was still ruling in 2011. Paradoxes of fate. To many who now ask for sensitivity so that justice does not cost those who come to it, it seemed normal that the expenses that were generated would be shared by those who received service under the former government, the socialist. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore clear that judicial fees are not an invention of Law 10/2012, no. This reform updated it on two grounds: one, of an eminently social nature, which was nothing other than guaranteeing the maintenance of free justice in Spain for all citizens who lacked the resources to fight, and the other, the need to rationalise the exercise of jurisdictional power. The 2013 reform also affects the fee system and, above all, the free assistance system to which I referred earlier, in order to give a real response to the weakness of the then-existing free legal aid system. It is an undeniable reality that the Law on Free Legal Assistance, as amended in the previous legislature, has made great progress in the universality of justice. It is a law that has made it possible to take important steps to extend the rights of all Spaniards, especially those who need it most, and proof of this is the great welcome it has had in many different sectors of the legal society. No one had thought so far of particularly vulnerable groups, such as victims of gender-based violence, victims of terrorism, victims of trafficking in human beings, minors and persons with disabilities who had been abused or who suffered permanent consequences as a result of an accident. Now, thanks to the government of Mariano Rajoy, they all enjoy free justice. Curiously, it seems that many do not seem to, but can they explain to us why those who have had government responsibility did not do so before, after so many years of socialist government in Spain? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a further demonstration of the sensitivity of the Rajoy Government to those who needed it most; sensitivity and consideration that they will continue to have of the whole People's Group. They will allow me, because there have been many statements that have been made here of a lack of sensitivity on the part of the Government of the People's Party and of Mariano Rajoy, to quote him. If sensitivity is spoken of, how will the anti-disease rules that have been published in the government of Mariano Rajoy be termed unsensitivity? Ladies and gentlemen, there are those who ruled in their day and presumed to speed up evictions and yet, under the government of Mariano Rajoy, there has been a set of rules that have benefited more than 35,000 families, allowed 18,000 debt restructurings, suspended more than 17,000 evictions, made more than 5,000 payments and 4,000 families have agreed to a social lease through the Social Housing Fund. Similarly, it should be remembered that, during the past parliamentary term, the Government of Mariano Rajoy has focused on deepening the instruments of mediation and arbitration, something very important also for the speeding up of the administration of justice, in order to achieve extrajudicial solutions. We recognize that Spain has a lot to go on that plot, but we contribute the Mediation Law. We do not aspire, ladies and gentlemen, to equate ourselves with the Anglo-Saxon system, in which 70% of cases are settled through arbitration, but we do have to continue to move forward. Currently, in Spain there are already 2,000 mediators, 1,100 competitive mediators and 61 mediation institutions that are already registered, because we believe in this culture of agreement in the face of the conflict that is so much favored in these early days of this legislature. And we will continue to explore the path of agreement and not the path of conflict. I'm done. I want to make something very clear: the current rates are absolutely weighted. The fee legislation promoted in the previous legislature is in line with the Constitution - as it has been stated - and the interpretation of it by the Constitutional Court and, moreover, they are in line with the criteria set by the Council of Europe, no matter how much you deny it.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u28	Mr. Zoido, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u29	I'm done, Mr. President. In Spain, any natural or legal person may apply to the courts in defence of his or her legitimate rights, interests or claims, because the current system of fees does not constitute an obstacle to the exercise of those rights. The current rates, however much they are insisted on, do not hinder access to justice, because the current rates, however much they are insisted on, do not violate the right to effective judicial protection and this process, which we have had in the previous legislature, has been a demonstration that everything can be improved, but this through dialogue, contributions and consensus. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is not opposed to taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Zoido. - the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Cyprus, amending the Organization Act No. 5/1985 of 19 June 1985 of the General Electoral System for the THE RIGHT OF ACTIVE Suffrage TO THE MOST DECESSARY YEARS [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 122/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u31	We move on to the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, in order to extend the right of active suffrage to those over 16 years of age. To present the initiative, Mr Rufián has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u32	President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a reminder of the more than four hundred people who have died today off the shores of the unworthy European Union seeking a better hypothetical future. We will never know their names but their memory will fall on our consciences. A memory for them. [[The Vice-President, Villalobos Talero, took the Chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the most reactionary and indecent labour reforms known to date have been devised, negotiated and approved in this House, especially by the People's Party, which in Catalonia is anything but popular. I do not say that, for example, the ILO, the International Labour Organization and the United Nations say that they are unlikely to be separatists. Measures that have made the Spanish state a true laboratory and paradise of neoliberalism and labor exploitation. Measures that would pride and leave as true beginners the two totems and ideologists of the most reactionary right: Reagan and Thatcher. Many of us are ashamed that it is, but I understand that some of you, as neoliberals of the BOE, do not, and that you even boast of it, of a neoliberalism that, on the other hand, is cured by putting coffees on a promenade or unloading trucks in a free zone ten hours a day at 4 or 5 euros an hour. In any case, if here it is precarious, if in this House it is excluded without blinking hundreds of thousands and millions of people, including those who are already sixteen and seventeen years old, and therefore can already work, if here so many boys and girls can be denied and mortgaged with impunity the future, if here it is possible to make hundreds of thousands of genuine young labor cannon meat with an estimated 66% unemployment, understand that some of us advocate that these hundreds of thousands of boys and girls stand up in front of you. And in democracy one defends himself in two ways: in the streets, the centers and the squares - and I can assure you that many of them already do - and in front of an urn. We have come here to defend ourselves against an urn; in short, to expand the democracy of this country. It is part of the idea and desires of the most reactionary right to infantilize society, it is nothing new; to believe and make believe that there are those who do not deserve nor know nor can nor should they participate in politics. That's what the beast said, the fascist who died in bed: Do like me and don't get involved in politics. They're usually people who are offended by a few more rastas than an envelope of black money in their pocket. They are usually people who talk about fractures in Catalonia simply because in Catalonia they barely win the most worthy Pacma. They are usually people who consider calling a gangster a gangster in the Parliament of Catalonia a disrespect and telling 6 million people to fuck off, a slip. They're usually people who have been earning too much time and it's better if they lose. Luckily, there's always someone who plants face, there's always been. In this country, as in so many others, everything that has been achieved and everything that has been earned has been won on the street. No one came down from heaven to give anything for so long as it was called Felipe González. What was won, what we have, was done by our grandparents and our parents and among those who have fought, those who today are fighting, among those who have filled the streets of this country as the most, among hundreds of thousands are boys and girls of sixteen and seventeen years old, boys who have filtered the pain of the last eight years, a huge pain that they have seen in their homes, in their schools and in their families and have turned it into political awareness and a huge mechanism of social transformation. There is no greater or better tool for political transformation than pain. They have filtered all this, filtered their critical sense and put it at the service of demonstrations, protests, tides, self-regulated centers and, above all, in determination to win, in willingness to win. We want to put an urn in front of them and let them express themselves. We want to question them. We want, in short, to repeat, to expand democracy wherever and with whomever it is. We are faced with one of the most challenging generations in our history. Although some of you would like those boys to know Bethlehem Stephen before that Buenaventura Durruti, it has not been so. Many of them are on the streets and have deprived them of so much that they already want it and can do anything. Those boys and girls who are leaving behind, those boys and girls who are doing politics at the best place to do politics, which is on the street, want to participate; and I don't say that, says the Secretary of State for Social Services and Equality, who estimates that 63% want to do so. Who's gonna deny it here today? Who's going to refuse to express themselves in front of an urn? We'll see about that today. If at the age of sixteen this State can demand criminal, labour and tax liability and if at the age of sixteen this State allows you to marry, this State must allow you to participate, it must allow you to vote. Not doing so is from an enormous hypocrisy derived from the fear of the disputing capacity of an entire generation, from the fear of the one you have never considered, to the one you think can take away your chair when in reality the chair belongs to them. If this proposal is not approved here today, it is out of simple and miserable fear of some of you. Last November 9, 2014 Catalonia demonstrated that it could be done, that there was an entire generation willing to be questioned. Catalonia aligned with countries such as Scotland and Austria and institutions such as the Council of Europe and the European Youth Forum. We in the future Catalan Republic will guarantee the vote to those who are sixteen years old. We want a country of all for everything and for all. I'm sure most of you also want it for your country. You have a huge opportunity here today to prove it, and I'm sure you won't miss it. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applause.- The Members of the Republican Left Group are displaying posters reading: For the vote at the age of 16!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u33	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. Please lower the banners, Mr. Tardà. [[Ladies and gentlemen,]] For the second time, I'll let you know. Lower the banners, Mr. Tardà. [[That's how they do it.]] Thank you very much. Let us move on to the fixing of positions, since no one has asked for the turn against. Firstly, Mrs Oramas has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u34	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rufián, we are going to support this proposal, but I would like to welcome a subject as beautiful, as beautiful and as powerful as this one that young people are voting in this country and talking about history. I was sixteen years old at COU and 17 - it was 1977 - entered the university. That generation of mine lived intensely the arrival of democracy: those screams of 'freedom, amnesty and autonomy', with sixteen years, and if there was a strike of the garbage company there we would all go to COU and in 1977 at the university. Actually, you're right. We complain in this society many times and in this Congress that young people have apathy for what happens, that they don't read newspapers, that they don't participate and the biggest thing in a democracy is political participation. Like you said, you can get married, you can work, you're a criminal. Europe has recommended that countries should vote at the age of sixteen, but the Youth Council of Europe, the Youth Council of the Canary Islands, also wants to. When there are so many Spaniards over eighteen years old who do not want to vote, with that abstention we cannot say no to any European citizen when he wants to participate in the election of the government and the policies he wants for himself and for his generation. That is why I say that I want to give you that positive character, not a holiday, but a day of joy at the fact that in the Congress of Deputies, although with little travel, it is a political commitment for all forces, for the next government to come out, there are elections or not. And it is about sending a message above all to the youth of this country, to this youth who have suffered from the economic crisis, the social crisis, who have been taken away from them dreams and hopes that people of another generation have had about their future, their illusions of independence, of having a job, of being able to have a university career or a job opportunity in their city, in their autonomous community or in their country. That is what we are voting for today, that young people, of whom the future is, can participate in decision-making on that future in the bodies where they are taken. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mrs Sánchez has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u36	From the United Left-Popular Unity, the only thing we can do, in addition to supporting this Republican Left proposal, is to celebrate it sincerely, since we included it in our electoral program. We are going to support it and for the short time we have to say why I am going to focus on two issues: one, for justice, and two, for democracy; and one conclusion. For what? To build the society we want, to promote what we want, which are not only changes of government, but also changes of way of doing and a profound social change. We understand that it is necessary to correct the error that in the Spanish state you can get married or go to jail; if you belong to the popular and working classes of this country, you can start chaining precarious jobs of 300 and 400 euros or scholarships that reach thirty-five years and more; and yet at that age you cannot participate actively to defend yourself at least on the electoral level against those who condemn you to precariousness and this kind of problems. You can lose the scholarship for a decision you make at the age of sixteen because of the horror of the Education Act we have in this country, but you can do nothing to change the governments that decide who the Minister of Education is and what policy the Ministry of Education follows. This is for justice. We understand that if justice at the very basic level is the constant and firm will to give each and every one what is his or her right, someone who is going to suffer must at least have the right to an action that changes reality. It's also for democracy. Those of us who defend democratic values and classical republican values believe that democracy is not only about voting, but also about deliberating and participating, but obviously an important part of the practice by which citizens learn to make democracy and to be democrats is done through the ballot box. Only with these two things will we not get a better society, but at least we will be a little closer and we will be building it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am very excited that, being the largest of Compromis, I have been entrusted with defending this initiative which demands the right to vote for the sixteen-year-olds. I still keep - I saw it the other day - a red banner with letters of adhesive paper that we cut by hand and that put: voting right at 16 years old. It was precisely when this Constitution was discussing the right to vote and I remember that we took it out many times. Who was going to tell me that, after years, I would be defending this amendment here in Parliament? It's been years, but I still have the same illusion as that kid I couldn't vote for. In addition, I still have the same arguments that the boy had with a lot of hair that was manifested in the streets. There is a reason that falls by its own weight and it is precisely coherence. They have civil rights and responsibilities. Thus, a 16-year-old has recognized many responsibilities and rights associated with them, responsibilities and adult rights. You can work, pay taxes, emancipate, marry and be criminally responsible. However, it lacks the possibility of deciding on the policies that affect it. Another important argument is that of democratic participation. It is precisely at that age that they finish their compulsory training and decide which direction they will take their life, whether they continue to study or if they try - and I say they try - to find work. It would be a time when they should also have the opportunity to choose the course their own country will take. It would be like the culmination of their own formation and a way for them to feel closer to politics and institutions. It would be like wanting to give them the possibility of illusion and responsibility. Recent years of schooling could be used to provide them with civic training that would have the advantage that they could apply it immediately. As has already been said, this is a measure that applies in a civilized country such as Austria, has been used in the referendum in Scotland and Catalonia and is taking place in many other countries. When I hear the manic arguments that young people are more manageable, young people are more vulnerable, I always have the image of some of the actors of a party that is called serious, responsible, orderly; these actors who walk in electoral times through the asylums, through the residences of older people manipulating votes. Therefore, since Compromís we have voted in favour and enthusiastically for the proposal. Let's hope this law goes through. I'm done with the 20 seconds left. We are still in time for this not to remain in the drawer of oblivion again; I repeat, we are still in time. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u39	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Legarda has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. The consideration of the proposal for a law that we are dealing with today to extend the right of active suffrage to those over the age of sixteen is, in the view of our parliamentary group, a matter of great importance. Without a doubt, the incorporation of young people from the age of sixteen leads us to a series of questions: How will it influence the political agenda? Will it contribute to the growth of democracy in general and to a greater balance in the generational distribution of political power? What dynamic will trigger if such reform were to be adopted? Will it affect the level of youth participation? Will it change the agendas? Because, certainly, childhood-adolescence is a permanent category in every society and forms a population group that, as such, is a minority. From a more general and retrospective point of view, it must be pointed out that since the last century, and mainly in recent years, there has been a tendency in European countries to lower the limits of age by establishing an eighteen-year standard without prejudice to making it more flexible in relation to the exercise of certain rights and freedoms. It is in this regard, in this order of things, that the ruling of the Constitutional Court 141/2000 is incardinated, when it states that minors are full holders of their fundamental rights, without being abandoned in the exercise of their fundamental rights and their disposition to what they can decide in this regard those who have their custody and custody assigned, whose impact on the enjoyment of the minor's rights will vary according to their maturity and the different stages at which the legislation gradates the capacity to act. It is these reflections that introduce us into the authentic pointum ardens of the question discussed, that is, the desirability and opportunity of the proposed reform, both from a constitutional perspective of comparative law and of coherence of the legal system and of the specific circumstances of each society. We will begin with constitutional issues. In this line of reflection or perspective, we are doubted whether a reform such as the one proposed requires constitutional reform, and we say this because the majority was introduced in the 1978 Constitution for the first time in Spanish constitutionalism and with little history in European constitutional law. Thus, article 68.5 provides that all Spaniards who are in full use of their political rights are electors and eligible, that they are acquired, precisely, with citizenship, according to article 23, and that this is acquired with the age of majority that article 12 establishes at the age of eighteen. It is true that the eighteen years, as we said, is not the only reference age for the exercise of certain rights and obligations; it has been made more flexible in the civil field and in some aspects of regulations of public law. But it is no less true that the exercise of the political rights associated with citizenship finds a seemingly forceful constitutional regulation, and that it would require a calm and doctrinally sustained study to make flexible the age at which political citizenship is acquired at an age before the age of sixteen. On the other hand, and from the perspective of the coherence of the legal system itself, the reduction of the right of active suffrage to the age of sixteen is directly dependent on the education system, which must be able to transmit to them basic principles of the political system and give them political education before the age of sixteen, which means a reform of the current educational curricula so that they can assume this new area of responsibility. Also, the reduction of the right to vote to sixteen years of age would affect much of the legal system, where the ability to act is generally acquired at sixteen years of age, i.e. the suitability of a person to implement rights and obligations to which they are entitled. A political majority lowered from the current one, possibly and in congruence, would drag the majority to the sixteen years of much of the sectoral legal regulations or, at least, open an intense debate. In addition, to make this right of political participation more effective and real for young people, it should be provided with spaces for learning and citizen participation; from access to meaningful information in their own languages, we would affect the Transparency Act, specific spaces for expression, and active listening by groups that make decisions and opportunities to engage in collective activities for common benefit. If we look at international law, we find the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1959, which encourages the deepening of the rights of children and young people in protection, provision and participation; without making explicit mention of the right to vote, although certainly speaking of freedom of thought, religion and expression, association and peaceful assembly, the right to be heard in all matters affecting them, the 1992 European Charter of the Child, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union, adopted in Nice in 2000, in its article 24, or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Resolution 1826/11 recommends creating conditions for the participation of young people in civic life, investigating the possibility of lowering the voting age, and considering the possibility of passive suffrage in all types of elections where appropriate. And by entering into the reasons for such recommendations, we will also take the opportunity to raise the objections that are generally facing you. Thus, the measure is based on the strengthening of democracy and its legitimization; suture of the generational division of political power; better compliance with the right to participation of young people in terms set forth in the United Nations Convention; and against them it is objected that young people vote differently, are immature; they are not allowed to vote in other countries; they can be manipulated; they do not feel sufficiently mature, they tend to give their vote to radicals, the same young people are not willing to vote; they already have the opportunity to participate in youth councils and parliaments or similar institutions; in addition, only a minority of adults and young people aged 18 and over are in favour of voting from the age of sixteen. However, if we were honest, perhaps these objections contradict the rules on youth participation of the United Nations Convention. The contemporary sociological understanding of childhood and youth, the conclusions of evolutionary psychology concerning the capacity of young people; the practical experiences of young people participating in the elections and some other objections cannot be paternalistic, authoritarian, anti-democratic? Would not any objections constitute, perhaps, adulterist and paternalistic prejudices, such as the one hundred years ago the exclusion of women based on patriarchal prejudices? Is it not an important problem that democracy has, that it discriminates against a group of young people because of their age? In short, where do all these questions lead us? We are faced with a very important issue for the health of democratic life, which affects a minority, youth, and a category, young people, which has a remarkable impact on the legal order, both constitutional and political electoral, as well as civil, and many regulated sectors, which must affect the public and the private, which requires a reflection for decision-making in all orders, in the legal ones, from psychology, sociology, to the order, and which is also a reflection on the gradual implementation of the measure. It will be necessary to study whether the reduction in age is at the age of sixteen or at the age of seventeen, or first at the age of seventeen and then, seeing the effects, at the age of sixteen. Consideration should be given to the desirability of, should the decision be taken, in which electoral process is first implemented. First on the premises and then on the rest gradually, as was done in Austria, which is cited as a model? Will we allow the autonomous communities to decide in their electoral processes this gradual deployment until it reaches the generals and the Europeans? In short - and I conclude, Madam President - we are faced with a debate on the extension of democracy, which, if we do not want him to be accused of being an opportunist, cannot be approached from the roof. It must be the subject of a great political and social pact. It must be the result of a process of debate that generates a change in the culture of generational relations that excludes the young generation from the debate of political power. This was done in Austria and that must be our procedural model. That being said, in favour of a deep, serious and honest debate on the extension of democracy, we do not consider it appropriate for us to start with a proposal for a law, since we do not think that the process of amendments is competent to deal with the issues raised in our speech. Although we will support the establishment of a committee to address the issue of lowering the age to sixteen for the exercise of active suffrage and in which we will participate actively. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u41	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. For the Group of Democracy and Llibertat, Mrs Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. A debate on whether or not to extend the right to vote to 16-year-olds is really necessary. We therefore welcome the presentation of this proposal for a law brought to us today by the Republican Left Group of Catalonia to transfer this debate to the Congress of Deputies, since in Catalonia we cannot deal with it since the competences, at the moment, we do not have them. [[The Lord]] It needs to be addressed, I say, and not just because we believe it to be the case with the Group on Democracy and Llibertat, but because it is also recommended by the European Union, which has recommended that Member States address the desirability or not of transferring to their respective legal systems the corresponding amendments to the organic law in order to be able to vote, if it includes in that right young people over sixteen years of age. In fact, the United Kingdom, Finland and Denmark are currently having these discussions. We therefore consider this proposal to be most appropriate in the context of a proposal for a law. In addition, we would propose that, differently from the way in which the laws have been passed in the last four years of the absolutist majority of the People's Party, which have been on the roll, we might have the pleasure of listening to participants in the presentations of the debate on the law in order to legislate in the best possible way in terms of clarity, coherence and the need to give the floor to young people and to do so in the best informed way possible. I repeat, let's not do it like in the last four years, when instead of legging it seemed like we were kicking on the table; we were moving on. It is a pity that we lost four years of debate in this House. We say that it is appropriate to bring coherence, and it is true that Spanish legislation allows for the adjustment of transitional figures that regulate a difference between those under 16 years of age and those between 16 and 18 years of age; that is, it enables these children between 16 and 18 years of age to marry, so that they can make a will, so that they can fear labour relations, so that they can drive a moped if they have the corresponding permission. They are therefore persons who can hold civil rights and who can exercise them in full. We may find that a 16-year-old person may be married, may have children, may find himself working in a better or worse contracted company, but at the time of truth he cannot decide whether or not the policies adopted by this house are his or her liking, when he or she can contribute with his or her labor efforts to the maintenance of the tax burdens, which he or she is obliged to do if he or she works and meets the minimum necessary to do so. It is therefore an incongruity of the system that the voting of persons over the age of 16 is closed in a band and that there is no attempt to give coherence to this normative text that so many civil obligations impose on minors. I would go a little further in this debate and not just discuss the possibility of dealing with active suffrage, but also the liability, why not. We need people who are actively and passively involved in politics, and if the debate in the Commission gives rise to a good bill so that young people are also elected officials, why not. We believe that this bill would be somewhat short, since it refers only to the right of active suffrage of persons over 16 years of age. It would also be a good thing for us to focus this debate on the need for political parties to respond to the needs of young people. Perhaps, only perhaps, if there were an electorate pending our proposals would there be more ability to be attractive in the eyes of these new voters who look to us at political parties, who believe that from politics things can be transformed - from the street as well, but above all by doing legislative action in this House and seeking consensus - and they ask us to solve those problems that are still in place today and that we are not able to move forward. Therefore, having a young auditorium to commit to in order to try to capture their vote, perhaps it would make better the respective electoral programs, as well as we would receive as a society a greater involvement of these young people in their community. We want young people to become more involved in the community, in their commitment to the community. That is why a good measure would certainly be that this right to vote was a reality with the corresponding adaptations that we have today in the state legislation itself, which is this transition to the majority, a formula that certainly works and that allows us to make real tailor-made suits, according to the reality of the person who has the need or the will to vote. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Youth policies must be addressed from the perspective that they are the future policies of a society. It is therefore necessary to get the parties involved with young people and it is necessary to make politics attractive to young people. It is attractive the claim on the street, it is attractive the claim outside this House, but it is also necessary to re-prestigate the agreements that are being made in this House for the benefit of all. If only we could rely on public progress on what's said on the street, we'd do it. We must listen very carefully to the street, but we must also highlight the work of the politicians and the policies that we are fighting every day to try to carry out the proposals that can favor our fellow citizens. And I do not want to leave the rostrum without saying that today is a very important day for our parliamentary group, and I believe that also for this House. Today we have achieved unanimity in the Committee on Health when it comes to defending the rights of people who are victims of thalidomide in Spain. It has been the result of consensus, the result of dialogue. We have therefore shown that we are able to bring the best of ourselves and ourselves to give genuine solutions to people who have been waiting for them for more than forty years. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the option of agreeing before the end of the discount period; I challenge you to agree. We cannot let all these initiatives go to waste; we should continue to work on the agreements because, in the end, we will give a real lesson in democracy to these young people who will most eagerly come to vote when we are able to give them a coherent legal framework so that they can do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Ciuro. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was going to start a different way, but I will start by talking about what was translated after Mr Rufián's tone, which, not least known, was, at least for me, surprising. What was translated from your words is that for you the vote is a weapon loaded with hatred, resentment, almost a self-defense exercise. For us, remembering a poet whose death we celebrated a few days ago, voting is a weapon loaded with the future and this concept probably defines the difference between you and us in addressing this issue. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you that because today is a good day for us, Mr. Rufián. It is a good day because the gentlemen of the Republican Left have finally come to this House, the House where national sovereignty resides, to propose a policy for all Spaniards, even if by force, and that is worthy of celebration. It is also worthy of celebrating that a party whose political agenda is the secession is here today to talk about Spain. It is worth celebrating that a party that promised the institutional disconnection of Catalonia in eighteen months comes with a proposal for all Spaniards. After so long going up to this rostrum exclusively to say goodbye, to us, in our naivety - call it that if you want -, it seems to us a real novelty. We assume that you, with this proposal, have not a single point of political interest; we imagine that this proposal which you make of enlargement of democracy is a proposal which is exclusively charged with principles, not with party interests. We assume that there is no electoral calculation, that they have not been imagined even in this way to obtain that majority, that majority support for independence in Catalonia that they have not obtained at the polls. We imagine those aren't their intentions. We therefore understand that there is a sincere and noble concern for them to improve the mechanisms of participation of our Spanish democracy, of our common democracy. And that's why it's a good day. It is also a good day because we are going to have the opportunity to talk, to discuss a matter that is of absolute relevance to us: electoral reform. Because I think that's what this is about, talking about electoral reform. A mixture of civil issues and youth policies has been made; we believe that when we talk about reforming the Loreg, the basic law of our general electoral regime, we are talking about electoral reform. Therefore, my party and I are talking about a matter that seems important, transcendental to us; a matter in which, by the way, we have been living a genuine blockade by the majority parties for many years, too many years; I do not want to understand that it is because they defend their own interests. We have an electoral system that originates from a pre-constitutional rule, the Political Reform Act of 4 January 1977. It has therefore been almost forty years since that first regulation. The electoral system that was designed in the transition - I would also like to make this assessment - fulfilled its role at that time. We had to strengthen the structures of parties that did not exist, we had to strengthen institutional structures and promote stable governments because we played a lot, we played democracy, we played freedom. But today Spain is a different country, it is a different country, it is a much more plural and also a much more solid country, and the demands of society today are different from those that the young democracy of the late 1970s had to face. We therefore believe that it is indeed time to improve our democracy, Mr Rufián, certainly with mechanisms other than those you put forward; but yes, that time has come. And when you say that the important thing to improve our democracy - that democracy that you want to split up, by the way - is to lower the minimum age for voting to sixteen, let us give examples of where this democratic improvement that you are talking about applies. At the level of the European Union, exclusively in one, in Austria; exclusively in Austria. And there is no evidence - you can consult with all European political scientists - that this reduction of the electoral age has led to greater electoral participation in that age group. Of course, we believe that it has not had an impact on Austria's democratic quality, which we believe can be defended before that reform and now too. But let us be fair, there are also other countries that have embraced this reform; yes, there are, not in the European Union, but there are. Sixteen-year-olds can vote, for example, in Cuba. I don't know what it means to vote in Cuba, but there the sixteen-year-olds can vote. [[Applauds]] They can also do so in other countries, for example, in Indonesia. And in Ecuador; in Latin America where voting is mandatory; by the way, something you haven't talked about. But if we talk about voting at sixteen, why don't we also talk about voting at fifteen? Is there a substantial difference in maturity or can we understand that there is also maturity at the age of fifteen to grant that right to vote? In that case, there are also countries that have embarked on this path of democratic improvement and have reduced the age of majority to fifteen years. In Iran you can vote at 15 years old. Nor do I know what it means to vote in Iran, but the truth is that you can vote when you are fifteen. I'm going to quote you now countries where you can't: Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, Holland, Sweden, Norway, United States, Canada. We could go on, but I suppose all these countries are examples of weak democracies that do not attend to the problems of their youth; however, we think it is more appropriate to look like these countries that I have just quoted than those on the previous list. If we want to talk about electoral reform - and he said it's a good day for us because we want to talk about electoral reform - let's start at the beginning. If we approach that reform, for us the principle has to be one, a very classic principle: a citizen, a vote. [[Applauds]] Basically this: a citizen, a vote. That is to say, the vote of every citizen weighs and counts exactly the same, which, according to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, even of the European Court, is what today means that classic principle of a citizen, a vote. We therefore want an electoral law that guarantees equality in the value of voting for all Spaniards, so that no Spaniard is discriminated against for voting in a large or small constituency. In this, size matters, and a lot. We want to ensure that people and not territories vote - it seems to us that it is basically a right of citizenship - that a vote counts the same in Soria as in Madrid or Barcelona as in Girona. That doesn't happen right now. I'm going to give you some data, although I suppose the data I'm going to give right now is known to the whole House. To the People's Party each of its seats has cost exactly 58,662 ballots. My party, Citizens, has cost exactly 87,511 ballots. And we are not the most discriminated against in this House, it must be recognized in justice. The United Left each of its two seats has cost you exactly 461,522 votes. But the People's Party is not the most beneficial either, because the PNV, too, has to be said, is of justice, each of its seats has taken 50,264 votes. Look, there are seats here that are worth 460,000 votes and there are others that are worth 50,000. That seems to us to be a real injustice, and if we talk about expanding democracy, about improving democracy, about widening it, the first thing we have to do is to guarantee that principle in that reform, something that you are not talking about at all. We also want a law that will improve the participation of the Spaniards, of course, in the electoral process, and that is why we want to talk about unblocked lists, because we want the decision on which people have to hold public positions of representation to be made by the citizens; we need to give them the opportunity to exercise that personal right of choice and not to be exclusively the summit of the parties. You don't talk about that principle either. We want an electoral law that improves transparency and the channels of participation within the parties, which are instruments by which democracy is built and which channel citizen participation, and that is why we want to talk about primaries for the election of list leaders. If I were here, Mr. Mariano Rajoy would look at him, but since he's not here, I can't. [[Applauds]] We also want - and this we certainly share - hundreds of thousands of Spaniards living abroad who have not been able to exercise their fundamental right to vote for the reform of the requested vote, to exercise it in full, and in that we certainly agree. We want to make voting easier for people with physical disabilities by raising early voting or improving e-vote and mail voting. In short, we want political representatives to be more accountable to the citizens because we do believe that this is an absolute source of disaffection towards our democracy, one of the biggest problems we have to face. And we want, for example, that there should be compulsory debates among the candidates who are running for election, that we should not be in this permanent electoral battle. It seems to us that the right to receive information is a right of citizens, it is not a prebenda granted by political parties if it is in their interest to vote. We want to talk about all this in electoral reform. And we want to do it in a very different way than you do, and in this we are going to agree with the Basque Parliamentary Group. We believe that because it is a structural reform, a reform on which democracy is based, cannot be done with any majority, it needs a solid majority that must be achieved after a process of debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u45	Mr. Prendes, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u46	Yeah, I'm finishing up. That is why we have proposed a special non-permanent committee. We have already proposed it here in this House. We can decide on this tomorrow and begin to debate, to discuss how we improve this democracy, something we all certainly share that needs to be done. We can do it now if we don't consider this legislature dead, phenecid. Of course we do not consider it that way, we think it is alive, very alive and standing, so we have raised this special non-permanent committee, which would be the vehicle in which we could discuss all these things. By the way, I don't know how you guys haven't been able to do electoral reform in 30 years in Catalonia. It is the only autonomous community that does not have its own electoral law and you have ruled or ruled, you have had majorities, how come you have not achieved all these issues in Catalonia? I don't understand. We would in any case propose a reform from the beginning, which I will tell you what it is.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u47	And with that end, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u48	I will repeat them because they seem very important to me: equality in the value of voting, unlocking the electoral lists, primary, accountability and compulsory debates. From there we agree. As what you propose is something completely different, we will not agree, we will not support your initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u49	Thank you, Mr. Prendes. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start my speech with joy. Let's talk about youth, let's defend the rights of youth, who deserve it so much. In fact, remembering our years more and more distant from youth, when we were sixteen or eighteen years old, evokes a time of discoveries, of joys, of sadness, of learning, of trepidating experiences, some of them unrecognizable; therefore, I will leave those joys here. I can't help but answer the last speech before me. Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I am a Member of a rural area, I have probably been voted for far fewer people, far less citizens than you have been voted for. I come from Lleida, along with three other Members of Parliament, and in fact we are a territory that we represent demographically to a very small part of the population, but do not forget, those who come from a rural territory we manage 80% of the territory of the State, we manage a territory from which their food comes, we manage a territory where you spend your leisure, we manage a territory in which we are responsible for the environment, we also manage, unfortunately, their waste and sometimes we are even the quarries of the stones with which you build your cities. [[Applauds]] Let's talk about an election law. It is true that in Catalonia they are duties that we have pending; we have pending the electoral law of Catalonia, it is true, and we are going to do so, it is a challenge that we bravely face, we are not going to turn our backs on it, but let us take into consideration the territory, that territory that, I am convinced, all of us in this House want and want to preserve; let us watch over it and have respect for the Members of Parliament from rural areas. But let's get to the point. Our vote, of course, is going to be a favourable vote for many and various reasons. The first of these is democratic participation. Today's youth have the greatest and best knowledge of society and are much better informed than previous generations. The proportion of university graduates in Spain rose from 4% in 1977 to 32% in 2014. The Spanish average of young people with 25 to 34 years of university education is 37%, while the European average is only 26%. We can be proud of all this. Participation in the democratic process is certainly very important and voting is its main element, especially when we talk about knowing and recognizing the views of young people. Let us end once and for all with that topic which ensures that young people are more likely to be influenced by political propaganda or by the opinions of their parents, and let us discard once and for all from our language the word "child" as a pejorative term, as a synonym of irresponsible or incapable. Let us once and for all assume our responsibility to the reality that the 16 to 18 year olds are still the age group, today, most reluctant to participate in political debates and to join the parties. The motivation for active participation in decision-making processes is much lower when there is no possibility of influence and there is no doubt that lowering the voting age to sixteen would lead to greater participation of young people in our political life. Promotion of youth policies. It has already been said from this rostrum: allowing those over the age of sixteen to exercise the right to vote would force political parties - it would force us, their representatives - to make substantial improvements in youth policies. This has been strongly expressed by young people in the context of the different mobilizations that have taken place in Spain in recent years. Its decisive role in the squares, in the streets, during the 15-M, the mobilizations of students against Lomce, the environmental movements, in Catalonia its massive participation and protagonist in all the manifestations of the Diada de l'Onze of September demanding the independence of Catalonia, demanding the right to decide from Catalans and Catalans are some clear examples of the desire to influence the politics that our young people have today. And let us not forget the extensive and rigorous debates within entities such as the Youth Forum, the Youth Council of Spain and the National Youth Council of Catalonia. Demographic changes. We cannot turn our backs on them; the composition of the electorate has changed and life expectancy has grown. The proportion of young people in society has risen from one third, 33 %, in 1900 to more than 15 % today. Reducing the voting age to sixteen will bring about a greater electoral balance between the youngest and the oldest. Consistency between civil rights and responsibilities. It has also been said from this stage and we can only abound on the subject. A 16-year-old has, among other responsibilities and rights, the crucial moment in his life in which he must decide on his professional orientation, on the training that will bind him for the rest of his life, which will open the opportunities for him; he can work, he can emancipate himself, he can marry, he can decide on his health, he can decide on his sexuality, he is criminally responsible, he can lead, and yet he cannot vote, he cannot decide on all the policies that affect him since his full exercise of citizenship is not recognized. It is difficult to talk seriously about rights without ensuring participation in decision-making and power structures. Finally, democratic regeneration. If we believe in a process of democratic regeneration, we must also go through the process of rejuvenation. The recognition of the vote at the age of sixteen will mean incorporating a large part of the citizenry into its construction and, at the same time, recognizing the way in which youth have fostered some of the political changes that have taken place in recent years. Take it for sure, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not put ourselves to it, it is very likely that the youth of the Spanish State will get tired of waiting. And as the sociologist and child rights activist Marta Martínez Muñoz said not long ago: some will be caught with his unsurpassed hegemonic adulteress. Let us not lose sight of it; they may be minors to exercise the vote, but they are already participating in democratic life and building their culture of indignation. Therefore, a favourable position will and will be of justice. Another position, one against, would only be understood as an electoral key; as a key to fear the incorporation of this active, regenerating and transformative critical mass that is the collective of young people in the Spanish State. If squatted in bureaucratic reticences or in leguous paths of distraction - and I address especially to the gentlemen of the PP - they present themselves contrary to this measure, they will not give us cat for hare. They know as well as we do, that there will be no other reason than to parapet in the bunker of bipartisanism and thus tacitly recognize - but which cries to heaven - that they are aware that their formations move away from the most dynamic sectors of society, such as young people, but not only young people, also the inhabitants of cities and also the group of citizens most hit by the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you will now take advantage of a magnificent opportunity to show that you are not afraid of that youth, the best prepared youth in history and the most well-trained political criterion, but also the most punished by the crisis and to which you must, as co-responsible for the situation, be held accountable. Take back here today those advanced papers that have already been put forward on your 2012 federal committee and that have fallen into oblivion and vote in favour of this initiative. Reticences, more logical on the other hand, will undoubtedly raise from the People's Party aware that its party has its main vote cast among those over 65 while it has collapsed in the other age groups, especially among the younger ones. As has recently been published, the intention to vote for the People's Party among voters over sixty-five years of age is more than double that the intention to vote among the rest of the age groups. Seen this way, it is logical that you fear empowering young people, but an immobile position will pass you a bill. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you know better than I that the surveys confirm that their formation does not manage to capture votes between the ranks of retired voters or among those under the age of twenty-five, but you are also aware that if you really want to appear as a force of change, the recognition of the political rights of young people is necessary to transform our model of state. Sabida is also his resistance, shared with the People's Party, to recognize the legitimate right of women between the ages of sixteen and eighteen to legal and safe abortion, imposing the requirement of consent of parents or guardians, which in practice has been an unstoppable barrier for one in eight young people during 2014, which has merited the express denunciation of the European Committee against Discrimination against Women and Amnesty International. [[Applauds]] And finally, as far as the proponents, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left Group of Catalonia, we welcome the fact that they have been intrepid and committed in this bid to expand the democracy before which, as it could not otherwise be, we stand by their side. I say intrepid not in vain, with knowledge of cause; in the same way that a few weeks ago from their ranks gave us encouragement in our struggle to obtain the referendum that would materialize the right of Catalans and Catalans to decide their relationship with the Spanish State and gave us the hand to collaborate in this endeavour, from En Comú Puemeros, integrated with Podemos and En Marea in the plurinational group, we do the same reciprocally. In the same way that your spokesman claimed to see a very complicated absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies to open the way to article 92 of the Constitution, we too see very complicated the absolute majority to get the reform of the organic law that you have come here to propose and defend.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u51	Mr. Moya, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u52	Right away, Mr. President. In just reciprocity, therefore, those of us who are a party of republican left and of Catalonia, that is, from En Comú Pomera, winners of the past elections in Catalonia and meeting point of the new left, we extend our hand to this radically democratic commitment, and not only will we wish them encouragement as a few days ago the very admired friend Joan Tardà wished us, but we also move here today and in the form of a vote we give them our support. And to end simply insist. [[The honourable Member concludes his speech in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u53	Thank you, Mr. Moya. Mrs González Veracruz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Moya, I thank you for the reference to the Law on Voluntary Pregnancy Interruption on two issues: first, because for Podemos-En Comú Pompo now you can talk about abortion, I don't know whether because surveys allow it or because we look at the reality of the people and, second, because you acknowledge that, thanks to the socialist governments, there has also been progress in the rights on the voluntary termination of pregnancy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess to you that I identify myself more with Mrs Oramas' tone and smile than with Mr Rufián's speech. I think this is a precious debate, a debate that needs to be addressed with a smile and a serious debate that needs to be given a lot of depth. We all remember the sixteen and even the fourteen. Many of us here, or at least those I know, were already in demonstrations, some like me creating the student association of my public institute or even platforms in defense of public education in my region. This needs a lot of depth today because we are talking about reforming our country's electoral law, extending active suffrage to those over the age of sixteen, something that we Socialists are going to support today. We will support the admission process for this change because we are a progressive party, because we are a party that thanks to our governments we have led the vanguard of the rights and freedoms of our country, putting ourselves at the head of Europe and even of the world on many occasions, for example, with the same sex marriage law and also because we are strong advocates of the fact that young people have to be active agents of society and of our democracy, and also because in our electoral programme we already committed our word and we keep the word that we give to citizens with the proposals, but also with our votes in the investiture sessions. This debate is essential within the framework of the European Union. We were mandated by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2011, but also by the European Parliament in the debate on the European Elections Act in November 2015 on the basis of a principle of equality in European voters, i.e. I am convinced that this right of young people will come to all Member States, to the countries of the European Union sooner or later. However, the most important thing today, ladies and gentlemen, is not the content of this bill. The most important thing is that it depends on us, on each Member of this House, on each Member of this House, that this can be achieved. That we can amend the Electoral Law, that we can end those unfair rates of the People's Party, that we can make the law we were debating last week a reality, all that is in our hands and I hope that we have enough responsibility to achieve it. Let us make some history in this House, which has recently suffered from an excess of adanism. Many Members have passed through this House who, in addition to representing ordinary people and going to many demonstrations and indignant on numerous occasions, have been able to change the reality of the people of this country; they have been able to grant rights that are in question today by a government that we could dislodge from La Moncloa if we agreed all those who think of policies in which there can be a consensus, an agreement. I am talking about rights such as those contained in the Law on Dependency and Personal Autonomy, which is now being questioned. I am talking about rights such as the one that brought a Member who sat here, José María Maravall, on equal opportunities in education, which is being questioned today. And I'm talking about rights that exactly 30 years ago a socialist like Ernest Lluch launched through the General Health Law. Tomorrow exactly four years ago this Government broke the universal health of this country. [[Applauds]] That's the difference. There are parties that represent progress, progress in rights and freedoms like ours and, in our DNA, there is precisely solidarity and social justice, and in this House we are responsible for making it happen. That's our story. Speaking of history, the debate on age in the right to vote is not new, but dates back two hundred years. As early as 1978, the age of majority was set at eighteen years. It has been a long time since then and I believe that we are in a democracy mature enough to address, among other issues, this amendment to the Electoral Law. Meanwhile, in Austria, a neighbouring country, young people and young women have been able to vote in the legislative elections, but also in Argentina, Brazil and other countries. The Socialists are aware that this is a controversial debate, which must not be feared, but above all it must be done in depth. To this end, we believe that a subcommittee should be set up to enable active listening by experts, but above all to achieve a broad social and political consensus, as is usually done in electoral reforms, because we are talking about the rules of the game, but above all let me try to contribute data to a debate that is very substantive and very serious. Most duties and rights are acquired at the age of sixteen. In the 2011 work of the professor of Constitutional Law, Miguel Ángel Presno, entitled The right to vote is a fundamental political right, the author argues that this right linked to participation is the imprint of the rights of demonstration, assembly and association or freedom of expression that are of course already exercised at the age of sixteen. Throughout history - the author demonstrates - the reduction of the age of the vote has been a constant and on every occasion when it has been achieved it has served to promote the development of political participation, that is, until it is not advanced, until the age is not reached a maturity that is positive for democracy and for society. It defends Félix Moral, in a CIS report, which sees how the moment when civil and political rights are acquired coincides with a significant increase in citizen consciousness. It seems to be a key moment in the process of political socialization of the individual. In short, as I explain to you, lowering age stimulates the participation of young people in politics, their interest, and generates a sense of responsibility for the public thing. In preparing this speech I have chosen these two conclusions from the work that I have read precisely because they are key at a time of political disaffection that worries us many parties or at least most of the parties in the House. It is the reports of the CJE that give two more reasons that seem important to me. One is that including young people over the age of sixteen in the electoral corps would force political parties to make substantial political improvements in youth offerings. Moreover, with demographic changes and the increase in the life expectancy of the Spaniards, the electoral body is getting older. Therefore, the reduction in the voting age would achieve a greater electoral balance between the younger and older ones. Let us also talk about the obstacles. What are the obstacles that are being argued against this decision and that we would love the Socialists to hear in that subcommittee with the experts, but also with society and the collectives? Precisely the immaturity, the influence of the family environment, the childishness that has already been mentioned here and dependence. Do you know what these arguments are, ladies and gentlemen? Exactly the same ones with which women were denied the vote; exactly the same ones that Clara Campoamor had to listen to here in 1931. That is why it seems to me that there are many more reasons for this than there are against it, because time has shown that we women had to vote and also forever. [[Applauds]] It has already been said that we would have to analyse that in order to achieve political self-determination at the age of sixteen we must admit that in Spain we would have to have a coherence between civil rights and responsibilities. You can marry fourteen years old, grant a will, have criminal responsibility, as well as work, pay taxes or make health-related decisions; not only the voluntary termination of pregnancy before that, but even the rejection of treatments that can save a person. In short, setting the electoral age in sixteen years seems consistent with the presuppositions of maturity that already exist in many sectors of the system and would imply nothing more or less than incorporating almost 800,000 citizens who would move from being a ruling people to being a ruling people. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that electoral reform needs to be addressed. If there was a government of change formed by the political forces that we have committed it in our programs, and which is specifically reflected in the agreement between PSOE and Citizens, we would be offering today to the citizens many of the desires that they express: from the electronic vote, that would enable the external vote, to solve all the problems that have to do with the requested vote and, of course, a much more proportional legislation, such as that that we have already achieved in another Parliament jointly PSOE, Citizens and Podemos in the Regional Assembly of Murcia amending the Electoral Law in these terms. There is a need for broad political and social consensus and, therefore, we believe that the decision must not be taken lightly, but through a subcommittee. But the most important thing is that neither this subcommittee nor this bill nor the establishment of the commission of inquiry that we will discuss tomorrow will be possible if there is no change government next week. I assure you that I do not care about initiatives, I care about people, I care about the hope that is out there and the rights that could be recovered and conquered. I am saddened by the changes that are not made and that could be made with a Government tomorrow if we succeed. I'll tell you what. I, as a Member of Parliament, have represented my voters. I have come here and voted on the policies I committed in the election campaign, but I also voted for a president of change, for a socialist president, and with my vote we would have managed to get that gentleman and that government out tomorrow. [[Pointing to government seats.- Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u55	Mrs. Gonzalez, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, not everyone can say the same. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u57	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to support the bill that we are debating in this House today. Some of the speakers who have been in this rostrum and have preceded me in speaking have already given some of the reasons why the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to support this proposal. They know them - they know a lot, perhaps it is youth - but let me explain to them the reasons for both opportunity and form and substance that we have not to support the proposal. In addition, Mr Rufián, I will give you a full and loving response to the proposal you have put forward, which is published in the bulletin. The speech of defense of the initiative you made this afternoon I prefer to leave it for the annals of the history of this House, and you will read it, that speech will already be read. In the explanatory statement for its proposal, reference is made to a resolution of 2011. We are in 2016, that is, it has been five years since then, and you decide to present this proposal for reform of the Electoral Law now, right now, when we are facing a possible call for elections and the possible holding of an electoral process within two months. I would think of many qualifications for that proposal, for that behaviour, but it will suffice to say that in the People's Parliamentary Group we understand that it is incoherent and irresponsible. I explain: it is incoherent because in the past legislature the People's Party received a flood of criticism, including from the Esquerra Group, only for insinuating a reform of the Electoral Law. That reform was insinuated when it was almost a year before an election was held and we were accused of opportunists, electoralists and partisans, and now you come here to present a reform of the Electoral Law with just a few weeks, and this is the time. The rules of the game changed: with almost a year it was not the time, and now with almost six weeks it is the time to present this law. With this, ladies and gentlemen, this is political incoherence, and that is how we can describe it in at least one generous way. Moreover, we find it irresponsible - it has been said from this rostrum - because if there is a dissolution of the Chambers, this law cannot be passed; even if it is taken into consideration this afternoon, it will not be able to complete or complete all its parliamentary procedure, with which it cannot be adopted. These were reasons for opportunity, but we also have fundamental reasons. We understand that we have to start on the basis that it is not so easy to separate the debate from the majority in general from the debate of the majority in order to vote, in particular. It is article 12 of the Constitution that establishes the age of majority at the age of eighteen, and this means that that age is the limit that must be crossed in order to be an adult, from the legal point of view. It is not a capricious or random limit of our Constitution, since the Declaration itself of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states in its article 1 that every human being under the age of eighteen years is understood as a child and, in comparative law, the general rule is also eighteen years. It is the general rule, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the age at which the person is considered to attain the willful fullness that allows him to exercise without restrictions or guardianship all the rights relating to the private sphere of his life, that is, the age at which the full capacity to work is reached. At an earlier age, ladies and gentlemen, it is easier for voluntarity and subjectivity to be imposed on rationality. Does that mean that minors are not fundamental rights holders? Not at all. All honourable Members are aware that in Spain all older Spaniards and minors are holders of fundamental rights; what happens is that minors are limited in their exercise because they have legal capacity but do not have the full capacity to act. The proposal you are submitting does not propose to change the age of majority, because that would mean amending the Constitution, but rather to lower the age to be able to vote until the age of sixteen by amending the Electoral Law. I repeat, they leave untouched the majority that the Constitution establishes. In addition, they propose to change the age for the exercise of active suffrage, i.e. to vote, but not to change the right to passive suffrage or the age required to join a particular political formation, so that a 16-year-old could vote for a certain political formation, but could not join that political formation and could not appear on its lists to represent citizens. As I said to you a moment ago, the People's Parliamentary Group understands that it is not easy or prudent to address the debate of the majority voting age or the voting age by separating it from the general majority under article 12 of the Constitution. The constituent debate on the age of majority revolved around whether its constitutionalization could present an excessive solidification of it and, above all, on whether the extension of the constitutional age to the exercise of political rights should also extend to the other branches of the legal system. The age of eighteen years was generally accepted as a majority, which never gave rise to a discrepancy. The discrepancy arose as to whether the civil age should be maintained in twenty-one years or lowered to eighteen, but what happened between the age range between sixteen and eighteen was never raised, because they were always considered to be minor for both civil and political purposes. It was quite clear from the constituent debate that the parents of the Constitution had in mind that the eighteen-year limit applied to political rights. Indeed, the report of the Constitutional Commission's presentation spoke of a minimum age of eighteen years for the full exercise of political rights, and although the general formula of article 12 was finally adopted, it is clear that the will to set the minimum age for voting at eighteen years was part of what was being regulated in article 12 of the Constitution. That rationing would lead us to believe that this article includes a minimum age for exercising political rights, so it would not be possible to reform the Electoral Law and lower that age without amending the Constitution. This precept would be protected by the theory of institutional guarantee, which is the one that would ensure its possible violation so as not to distort or denaturalize that content that would make the institution of majority unrecognizable. In the People's Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe - as I said before - that it is so easy to lower the voting age by simply amending the Electoral Law and without touching the Constitution. We understand that this requires a calm, calm debate, and is incompatible with a reform proposed at a short date of a possible call for elections. From this rostrum, some parliamentary groups have expressed their willingness to discuss this matter more calmly, in some subcommittee or in some paper. Some parliamentary groups have also expressed their willingness to raise or open the melon of electoral reform. In that case, Mr Rivera -- there is Mr Rivera, so I'm sorry -- I'm sorry, Mr Citizens' Spokesman, we will also be happy to address the debate on a hypothetical, possible or future reform of the Electoral Law. We have no inconvenience in speaking or discussing what you want. As for form, ladies and gentlemen - in particular Mr de Esquerra, although there are some new Members in your group, such as Mr Rufián, for example - there are new Members in this House, but there are others who already have a long history as Members, and it seems a lie that from the experience you have here you have not been able to consider the fact that, all the time in this House, any reform affecting the Electoral Law was attempted from dialogue, seeking consensus, seeking agreements. Why? Because the Electoral Law collects the rules of the game; and the rules of the game are the same for all political formations that run for elections. With this, it makes sense to seek the greatest support for these rules and for their hypothetical modification. What would it do for a political formation with a broad or sufficient majority to approve a reform if it did not include the other political formations? There would be a risk that that majority would change to the next legislature and re-amend the Electoral Law. What would we get out of that? Greater insecurity; we could have to change the Electoral Law each legislature according to the parliamentary majority of this House; we would pass on to the citizens a situation of absolute insecurity, because they would not know what rules would govern the next electoral process. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we would give a sense of security. That would not be serious and, of course, with the People's Parliamentary Group they will not count on this absolute irresponsibility. Moreover, they cannot accuse us that our position is demagogic, and they know it, because when we have had enough majority to make an electoral reform or propose a modification that we could have carried out, we have not; and we have not done so out of responsibility, because we know that the rules of the game cannot be changed unilaterally without seeking dialogue, agreement and consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an exercise of political responsibility, which is the least we can ask of citizens' representatives. In conclusion, I would like to say that you refer in your explanatory statement to a resolution that is not binding, a resolution that contains a recommendation. From the People's Group we congratulate you on the diligence in taking on a recommendation from a European institution, but we would also like your party to show the same diligence in complying with the Constitution, the laws of the Spanish legal system and the judgments and decisions of the ordinary courts and the Constitutional Court, which are indeed binding, ladies and gentlemen, that is binding. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rufián,...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u59	Mrs. Cortés, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u60	I'm finishing up. Mr Rufián, I ask you for the same diligence and the same meaning when you say that the goal of lowering the age to sixteen is to improve democratic quality. There is nothing that improves democratic quality more than compliance with rules and judgments, nothing like respect for the rule of law. I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, electoral laws are never innocent. They all have a specific objective. They seek a system of proportional representation, majority, guarantee governability, but all have a goal. I wonder what is the purpose of your proposal, what do you intend, what is the objective of lowering the voting age, what is the guilt of your proposal, Mr Rufián? You, ladies and gentlemen, know that. And so do we. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u62	We turn to item II of the agenda on non-legislative proposals. We begin with that of the People's Parliamentary Group on the achievement of a national pact on education. Mr Casado has the floor for the presentation of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group presents this non-legislative proposal that it seeks to promote a national pact in the field of education and is aware that it does so at a moment of transcendence. We have been talking about pacts for several months now, and if we look at what the street is telling us and what the various political parties have included not only in our electoral programmes, but in our public talks and interventions, there is a point that we all share, which is the need to agree on an educational framework for the next generations, where we can all have stability in the laws that will guarantee quality education for our children. That is why we do not come here to make a war of figures or a memorial of grievances or even a history of our successes. We have come here trying to put aside our ideological prejudices and trying to appeal to the responsibility of all groups to agree on something that is already urgent and absolutely essential. To that end, we want to start with the background that goes directly back to the constituent Covenant when we talk about pacts. Yes, there was an educational constituent pact. In addition, there were two basic rights enshrined in article 27 of the Constitution: the right to education and the right to freedom of education; indeed, it is with a very personal impulse of people such as April or War who, once again, left this historic dichotomy between freedom and equality, supposedly freedom historically enarbolated by the right-wing central parties, and equality historically enarbolized by the left-wing central parties. It was found that not only are they dichotomous, but they are absolutely essential and always have to go hand in hand. After this history of pact, we have lived three decades in which in Spain there have only been laws enacted, passed and in force by left-wing governments. There was a law passed in 2004, which did not come into force, and now there is another reform of a law that has been in force for a year. With this, in this case, the diagnosis has no shared responsibilities. And the diagnosis, in my opinion, has two fundamental elements: the first is that the educational quality in Spain is improveable. We do not say that, as the international indices say, as the Pisa report says, all those indicators say that I have promised not to make war on figures, but that we all know perfectly well. If we had to summarize it in four fundamental parameters, we see that the dropout and failure rate is too high, that academic performance is too low, that there are few graduates of vocational training, very few compared to the countries of our environment, and also that there is a low employability among graduates, that is, graduates or doctoral students. The second diagnosis we have to make - that is not up to us - is that the technological and digital revolution has made everything change; nothing is going to be the same as before - and especially in the educational sphere - for teachers and students. It is pointless to continue simply to teach the transmission of knowledge in the full age of the revolution of knowledge at a click, but we have to start talking about skills and skills that are adaptable to what experts have already said: that half of our children are going to work in jobs that do not yet exist; or, as the European Union's latest reports say, that there are more than a million jobs in the European Union that are not covered by lack of professional and academic training to do so; or, more importantly, that there are millions of young people in the European Union and also in Spain who are underemployed or who are not satisfied with the correlation between their academic-professional training and their job. Given the clinical-diagnosis background, what is the diagnosis that we had prescribed and that, I repeat, we did not come here to try to justify because there has already been sufficient debate on this matter? We have seen some fundamental and urgent points in which we are trying to launch an educational reform. The main thing was to recover a culture of effort, merit, capacity. We also think that it is not an elitist thing, but precisely what makes it possible to equal the person - in the face of equal opportunities - so that with his effort he can prosper. The second was to increase the freedom of choice of both institutions and parents, as well as the autonomy of teachers. We also wanted to simplify the educational curriculum and, in particular, to offer truncated subjects for territorial vertebrate and cohesion of our country. We also wanted to bet on languages; not only on official languages in the different autonomous communities, but also on bilingualism, and especially on learning English. Finally we wanted - we want because it is in force - to implement the external objective assessment, because we think that transparency and having information from families is absolutely essential. What is the pact that we propose to discharge these problems, the pact that I think we can all start plotting? We can sum it up in three fundamental pillars: a facet of people, of society itself and even of the economy or future employment of our young people. The people are several; first, the teachers. We talked about how it has to be a statute of the profession, that white book that a great expert like Marina has proposed to have precisely a framework of function very prestigious and above all very suitable to the teachers, which are the key vault of the educational system. We talked about the selection system. We proposed a long time ago to study this educational MIR, those selection systems at the national level that prestige, as in other countries, the profession. We also talked about continuous training; we talked about languages and new technologies that have to encourage teachers to never stop learning in order to be able to always teach in an up-to-date way. Finally, we have enshrined its public authority, that of teachers, precisely so that there is no problem in the classrooms. Secondly, we need to talk about the centres. We strengthen the autonomy of the centres and the evaluation of their objective tests. We think that's the highest possible match for families. As public centres can compete, new subjects are included; if the centres have good success rates for parents to set themselves, they will choose them on the basis of that objective information. As far as families are concerned, we want not only freedom of choice between public or concerted or private education, but also equal opportunities, strengthening scholarships, as has been done in these years, and even further enhancing that reinforcement. As far as students are concerned, we have already talked about languages, new technologies, but we also want a school cohabitation plan, against bullying, which I believe is absolutely urgent and which we have to deal with among all of us. From a social point of view, we think that this cohesion in the subjects to which we have already referred - that equity so that each student can have an education in accordance with his or her potential and circumstances, that inclusiveness so that there is early attention and even learning and education very directed to those students who have the most problems and of course the quality in the search for excellence - also has an economic or job search aspect. Firstly, we believe in quality vocational training that is very much geared to those jobs and the demand for the labour market that is needed. We are inclined towards dual vocational training, with more incorporation of enterprises, which are the ones who know exactly what young people have to train themselves. We would like a competitive university, open to the world so that we can also export our language, Spanish, as one of our potentialities but with autonomy and the ability that graduates and graduates can find a job and, of course, institutional, fiscal and educational reinforcement in terms of R & D+i. In short, we want to make it clear that there is much more that unites us than separates us, and we extend our hand to a sincere covenant. This is a proposal for an agreement that needs to be improved because our initiative is a starting point; it is not an objective in itself, but an instrument to continue talking. We think it is our responsibility because today's education will undoubtedly be Spain's success in the morning. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u64	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Amendment groups. We started with the Joint Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u65	Mila esker. Firstly, I support the Forum amendment, on behalf of the Joint Group. Having said that, it seems that once again the People's Group does not want to understand what citizenship is asking of it. The no to Lomce has been clear on the part of the entire educational community, despite which the threat of its full implementation is still in force. There have been many parents who in Catalonia and in Euskal Herria, for example, have chosen to refuse their sons and daughters to revalidate, even without knowing the consequences of this plant. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u67	All of this has been to claim, in our case, that Euskal Herria has the right to develop its own educational system, Euskaldun, paritary and without religious impositions. Now, after all this, you come and propose a national pact for education. We know perfectly well what that means. It means decentralization; discrimination for euskera, Catalan or Galician; impositions of subjects and contents from Madrid; more it mounts so much... and less its own history, real, not written by the winners - by the way, much necessary for it to be known that the Spanish State, for example, instead of pursuing complaints of torture, criminalizes the complainants, as it has done today in Navarre with the arrest of eight people and, in passing, thus contributes to the impunity of this scourge that is torture -. It supposes more. It means less parity, more religion, less critical thinking. Do not forget that in this House, as in the street, they were left alone with their educational reform. The absolute majority gave them, yes, the possibility of approving it but they never obtained the legitimacy of the educational community and society. At Euskal Herria we have been trying for years to create and develop our own educational system and we reiterate our request to continue to do so. We ask you to let us build our future in peace, adapting the education system to the present times and to the needs of our society. That is the country pact we need in and for Euskal Herria; it is so not only because a pact such as the one proposed to us today entails a serious competitive invasion, which also, but also because a pact of this kind - the one proposed by the People's Group - is neither legitimate nor fair, and less so if the proposal starts with the party. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia. Mrs. Sorlí.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the PP thinks we have no memory. This GNP is a shame, an empty proposal to clear the image of the PP because we are in pre-campaign, the pre-campaign victim of failure as a party and as a government. Today they propose a state pact for education to follow the line of work begun. What line? Lomce's? This line ignores the AMPA, the faculty, the unions, segregates by sex, creates elites, stons equality and oppresses the co-official languages in order to learn new languages. Before learning new languages we must respect and dignify our own. Do you think you have the legitimacy to propose a pact, you who have never joined the government of self-government and who have not heard an educational community? Do you really think that the line of work that has been taken so far can lead to a pact? Again, I think they've lost track of reality. Since Compromís we sincerely hope that this will be a kind of public apology, an intention to amend and a willingness to fix the damage caused. If you want to work for educational innovation you can look, for example, at the Council of the City of Castellón, which with the Pintaescola is recovering the centers that were degraded thanks to the participation of the whole community. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u71	They can also look at the work for the population that is being done from the Consell del País Valencià, implementing free education from zero to two years. 472 school units have been opened in less than a year. The dining room has been expanded and free textbooks have been put in place. That is working for innovation, for well-being and for equal opportunities. Yes, we need a pact, but it lasts; we need a pact that respects the territories, that includes the population. Such a pact will never come along the line of work that began in the last legislature. That is why we will vote not for continuism and more of the same. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Sorlí. Also as amendments, Mrs Montero has the floor for the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group and I have been left ojiplatic by the presentation of this proposal because when we read it we see that you want an educational pact based on dialogue, consensus and agreement. They say a lot of words that sound very good, and that contrasts with what they've been showing us these past few years, when they've been identified - I don't think I'm short if I tell you so clearly - by the whole educational community as a real threat to our educational system. That is why the Ceapa has told you - I have the communiqué here - that your proposal is a real insult to intelligence and that how you can have so much defachability for, after having presented a proposal like the Lomce - law that for the first time counts with the unanimous rejection of the whole educational community - to propose a pact based on dialogue and consensus that has been lacking in these four years. In these four years, you have brought us two gifts, each more pernicious to our educational system. The first was Lomce. I will show you some images of the mobilizations that Lomce has generated: two general educational strikes, in 2012 and 2013, when they passed their parliamentary roll with the opposition of all the forces of this Parliament to implement that educational law. [[Shows the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress photos of demonstrations]] It wasn't five or six, it was millions of people who showed up telling you that with Lomce it wasn't. I will also show it to the Socialist Group, which is not Adamist but comes to explain from this rostrum how they have brought rights. [[Show these photos to the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] I believe that this rostrum is to honour our people and the people who have brought rights; it is not any parliamentary group, not the Socialist Group, but the people. [[Applauds]] He said that you received the first general educational strike at all stages for proposing this reform, the Lomce. In addition, it was you against twelve autonomous communities, who requested, please, a moratorium to implement the Lomce because it was counting on the unanimous rejection of the entire community. I think you must recognize that Lomce is a regressive and harmful law, and still today they are telling us that they want to continue along that path. The second gift they've left us is, if it fits, even worse. I am talking about cuts: Royal Decree 14/2012; EUR 20 billion less than in four years has been invested in education, 1.5 below the OECD average. You have told us that this was because there was no money and that the cuts were necessary. Look - I read only a few figures -: Tax fraud is estimated in our country at EUR 60 billion. This is three times what you've cut in education in four years. Meanwhile in our country there are 25,000 teachers less for 800,000 more students. The National Commission on Market and Competition, which we do not control, says that corruption costs us €48 billion per year, which is more than twice what you have cut in four years in education; in the meantime there have been 64,000 students studying in barracks in our country in 2013 - I have no more up-to-date data. That is to say, if we added the money lost in this country by his Government's policies in tax fraud and corruption, there would not have been a single cut in our country; not a single cut in education, nor in any of the fundamental rights of Spanish and Spanish people. [[Applauds]] Yet you are going to tell me, like the other day in the Commission, that these proposals are very nice and that the problem is that there is no money. I insist: the problem with our country is not that there is no money, but that you have wrongly prioritized and have chosen to build airports without planes and roads that do not pass by cars, instead of building decent public schools. That is what has happened in our country, not that there is no money, but that you have prioritized it in order to have a very open hand with tax fraudsters and to put the working people in our country's neck. [[Applauds]] That's why they're going to say no to Lomce again. I'm finishing up. I think the serious problem here is that you have never cared about public education. That is why things like those that happen in the Community of Madrid, where you have the former secretary general of the People's Party in Madrid who took a bite of a million euros for each concert that was held; or the shame of what you have done with children's education, since there are companies that have no connection with the educational sphere, such as Clece, but are now running public children's schools because of their laws. These are companies that have no links with the educational sphere and are dedicated to cleaning. They are prioritizing this rather than proposals and companies that have an educational project. In short - and I conclude - you have put the country up in the field of education, which is why we have proposed this amendment to you. We want you, if you want a dialogue and a pact, to really do it with the rest of the parliamentary forces and with civil society. Let's get rid of the damn Lomce once and for all, without legal uncertainty or a problem for the students; let's get rid of this law that has counted on the unanimous rejection of the entire educational community. Let us really approach a participatory process to have a stable education law in our country. I don't have much hope that they will listen to what people say, because they haven't done it in four years of the legislature, but I will repeat to them what we have said many times from the streets: Public education in our country is not sold and defended. [[Show a sign]] [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Montero. Now, in the turn of fixing positions, first of all the Basque Parliamentary Group Mr Agirretxea. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Married, I recognize that you have a complicated role. It has a complicated role because it wants to legitimize what has happened in the previous four years... I recognize that you have had to put a new face, offer a new speech, a new attitude, but history is demolishing and reality is imposed, always. The literature, the introduction of the text that you have presented in the GNP shows, among other things, your own mistake. It shows that what they did has not convinced anyone and that without an absolute majority it is very cold, and as it is very cold they have had to come to ask for shelter. They had to ask for shelter from those who despised; they had to ask for shelter from those who wanted to impose themselves, who were overthrown, whom they intransigently proposed a model that did not convince anyone, whom they wanted to demonstrate with pride in the process that they did not care at all what other political parties, the educational community or the autonomous communities said. Obviously you can come today with nice words, which are, but it is very difficult for you to regain credibility. I admit it's a problem for you, but that's the reality. I am very skeptical with the educational covenant, among other things because I believe very little in educational covenants based on: You accept what I tell you and if not that you are against the covenant. That's what happens to you. Moreover, I am skeptical because the first educational pact that you should maintain, respect for the competition field, is not respected. That is the pact, as I said last week in the Committee on Education, which must be defended: respect for competition. With Lomce and other laws - I am afraid that more than one party would like to impose, propose or agree between them, but we will not participate in it - they want to obviate the existing competition. In the case of Euskadi, our autonomous community, our country is competent in the field of education; the Statute of Gernika says so, and I will repeat it every time I go up to this rostrum to talk about education. The first transitional transitional provision of the Constitution states that education, in all its extensions, levels and degrees, is the competence of Euskadi. That means that we do not want an educational law to be made from here, no matter how much it says it respects plurinationality, for example. No, it's not going to be from here. Those of us who are competent will make our own educational laws, for which we are competent in this matter. We will not accept any invading law, whether of the PP, of the PSOE or of any other, because when it comes to equipping the State with that centralizing hegemony that some likes it you start to see the patita more than one, so we will be faced. I know that some remember and yearn for that French school in which the whole country in hegemony participates in the same educational system, in which there are neither singularities nor differences, everything is homogeneous and everything is the same. I am sorry, but this is not the case here today, because different countries live together in this Spanish state and each has its own competence, in addition to its own language. I see I don't have time left and I'm going to end up like I started. Mr. Married, time has run out for them, they have no credibility to put forward an educational model in which we can all participate because when they had the absolute majority they did not use the words you used today. Why did they not propose an educational pact with an absolute majority at the beginning of the last legislature? Because they did not need it, obviously, and they said: as long as I have a roller I will use it. Now that they don't have it is when they ask for participation. We will not participate in any model that is invading our competences, that does not accept what the educational community says and that does not respect the capacities that each one has to implement their own educational systems, which also work very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u76	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Postius has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to begin by saying to the spokesman for the People's Group that I am still puzzled and stupefied by this non-legislative proposal presented to us today. The truth is that, after reading it several times, one comes to various conclusions: firstly, that the proposing group has a serious problem of coherence between what it says and what it does in the field of education; secondly, that the People's Group seems to have not heard anything about what has happened with the Lomce process in the last four years; and, thirdly - I am sorry, I have to say so - that the proposal before us today is, simply and simply, pure electoral postureo. I'll show you very briefly. When you start reading this non-law proposal and see that in the first lines the People's Group ventures to talk about the national pact in the field of education you are amazed, the truth. The astonishment is accentuated as you advance in reading to the toparte with other concepts, at least until now, in the language of the People's Group; concepts such as tolerance, respect for basic principles, rights and freedoms and even -attention!- consensus, consensus in the field of education. You immediately wonder whether we do not speak the same language or whether we live directly in different realities since, if we talk about Lomce and its processing, it represents quite the opposite of what you now propose. One continues to read and finds a paragraph that calls for reform based on dialogue, consensus, agreement, in an area such as education. For a moment, when you get to this point, you think that at best, at best, only at best, the People's Group has had an attack of sincerity recognizing the purpose of educational reform that perpetuated in the last legislature. No, ladies, no; there's a trick. There is a trick because when you get to the end of the proposal it is when the People's Group takes the fall and, in an act of coherence with itself, asks nothing more and nothing less for Congress to approve the need to continue with the line of work begun the past legislature in the field of education to make a great pact with the participation of all. At this point I would like to ask the spokesman of the Group of the European People's Party who they want to deceive with this proposal, to whom, because what you are presenting to us today sums up very well that Spanish saying that it says: Selling advice and for me I do not have. I will explain it to you quickly by reviewing several terms that I believe will be useful to you, at least from the semantic point of view. You're talking about consensus. Well, according to the Royal Spanish Academy consensus means taking a decision by mutual agreement between two or more parties. Could you tell me where the consensus was in the Lomce process, a law that was passed with the only votes of the People's Group? You also call for dialogue, and in this sense the RAE tells us that dialogue means discussion or treatment in search of union. Could you tell me where the dialogue was in the Lomce process, a project that accepted only ten of the hundreds of amendments that were tabled? They also insist on the agreement, and the RAE defines this concept as an agreement between two or more parties. Can you explain what you agreed with the educational community when the Lomce was drafted and approved, which led to two educational strikes? They also refer in their proposal to tolerance, which according to the RAE is defined as respect for the ideas, beliefs or practices of others when they are different or contrary to their own. Could you illustrate what kind of tolerance Minister Wert was preaching when he said that his intention with the Lomce was to Spanishize Catalan children? Is that how you understand tolerance? For example, when they mention moving towards constant innovation in education, I wonder: is their concept of innovation in education systematically invading the education skills of the Generalitat de Catalunya and attacking the model of linguistic immersion? Or they could explain to us what they mean by stability in the education system. Did they do anything to prevent the law from being born with the days counted and with six appeals before the Constitutional Court? It is very clear that no, because if they really believed what they said, why did they not vote a few weeks ago for the proposed law that paralyzes the implementation of Lomce and urges the drafting of a new educational law. I even told them at that time to take note of what we did in Catalonia with the approval of the Llei d'Educació, which in 2009 had very broad support between government and opposition; in fact it was approved with the Socialist Party in government and with Convergence in opposition. Therefore, as I said at the beginning of my speech, this proposal, in our view, is a purely practical exercise of political hypocrisy and posture, a proposal that does not lead us anywhere. Therefore, do not count on us, for, as the speaker says, who gives all counsel, let him take it for himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u78	Thank you, Mr. Postius. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are being proposed by the Group of the European People's Party to a pact for education. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, welcome to the pacts. In fact, Catalans have been used to them ever since we used to reason. If you consult the website of the Girona Assembly you will find the Book of the Remença Union of 1448, in which you will see the components of this union, its financing and the procedures in the negotiations that led to the abolition of the bad uses that would lead to the arbitral award of Guadalupe in 1486. This, abolishing feudal maluses, gives rise to the emphyteutic contract, the lease in currency, at that time, transferable to the heirs, which explains the accumulation of capital and the growth of trade and industry in modern Catalonia, so different from the revolt of the communers. Here we have their names - Padilla, Bravo and Maldonado together with three illustrious Aragonese -, executed - I repeat, executed - in Villalar on 23 April 1521. Neither covenant nor anything, executed, defeat that meant centralism and decadence. From this rostrum a fraternal greeting to those Castilian-Leonese who will once again concentrate on 23 April in Villalar because memory is indispensable for future covenants. [[Applauds]] Returning to the proposal of the People's Party, we must learn from the past and even from the so recent of a few months ago. Minorities need the pacts because it is not enough to be right. You must bear with reasons and patience because these - patience and reasons - lead to the covenant. Meanwhile, the majority hate them because they believe they are not necessary, that they weaken them, the majority present or those who have a past that was always better than the present. Those who have always ruled since the majority, sharing scarcely with other options, think that to agree is to give them reason in everything. The truth is, it looks a lot like 'everything or nothing', that's so chastising. So it was to you from PP with the absolute majority. And now in minority they have seen the light, they have fallen from the horse, let us put, for example, from the horse of Espartero, the one that bombed Barcelona every two by three and now, I repeat, in minority, they propose us not a bombardment but a pact. The People's Party proposes to us a pact no more or less than for education. Those who passed the Lomce without the slightest pact propose one to us, but, woe, sir, propose it to us without repealing the Lomce. Make a memory. Fifteen days ago we paralyzed her and in our opinion we were short, but what is indisputable is that the Lomce has died and so live the pact!, but following another path, another path that the People's Party proposes to us because it is common sense to learn from mistakes of its own and others. If we have to make a pact, it will have to be integrative, that is, in the antipodes of those that have been made to date, that can be accepted by the majority, without ideological pressures, abandoning obsessions with the languages that are not the Spanish - well the Spanish that is spoken in Spain because there are many other Spanish people -, directing and focusing efforts on real needs, starting from the ideological plurality and the existence of different nations - yes, there are different nations, not one, only, great and free - and on the bet that the quality of the teaching goes hand in hand with equity. If we want to reach a possible and necessary pact, we must first make effective the paralysis of the Lomce, then its repeal and by making and laying the foundations of a new law of bases, learning from the mistakes of the past, we can build a pact. We're not gonna start the house on the roof, and we're not gonna take advantage of a few ruins. The Lomce, which is a ruin, is not solved with a little painting pact mark. It can never look like new because ruins, ruins are. By the way, to end, if yesterday there were 400 dead in the Mediterranean, a year ago it was 800. Each of them is a total amendment to the dignity of the European Union. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u80	Thank you, Mr. Olòriz. Mrs Rivera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, years ago I met an older woman who told me a story I want to share. This woman's parents had been taken out of school at the age of nine. As she liked school, every day she approached the school of her village, sat on the street and through an open window she listened to the teacher's lesson to the other girls. One day someone closed the window and they didn't open it again. I'm sure it wasn't meant to be, but it's always been closed. That girl couldn't listen anymore. Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that successive governments have also spent their lives closing windows without ill intention. That is what this government did with the Lomce, a law that ignored the dialogue with the educational community, a law so badly raised and so badly received that its maximum responsibility was said that we would always have Paris and there it went and there it is. I am glad that this non-legislative proposal is being presented today, because they see that it has cost us the rest of the parties to convince them that parliamentary activity had to continue while the Government was still in office. It is never too late to rectify and more if what they put on the table is that national pact on education, which Citizens began talking about over a year ago, a pact ready to last a generation and not a legislature, a pact outside of politics, personalism or created interests. In the Committee on Education we have obtained the commitment of most parties to create a subcommission that starts working to achieve this great educational agreement. I like you to call for consensus; however, in the text that you have recorded you speak of continuing with the line of work begun last parliamentary term. I think the last thing we need is to keep doing things the way Mr. Wert did. The pact we propose is made by consensus, listening, proposing and giving in. The school must be used to train men and women ready to face life with the weapons of wisdom, curiosity and ethical sense. Michel de Montaigne, who has already been quoted this afternoon, said: Education must make us better. Those who receive excellent training are much easier to be good people. We have seventeen dangerously disparate education systems. Is there anything less equitable than that the quality of education varies depending on where it is born? Social injustice begins with inequality of opportunity. When public education is worse in one autonomous community than in another we begin to draw the dividing line between first- and second-class citizens. And if it is terrible that the place of birth will mark the quality of the training, it is even more so that the socio-economic level of the parents can condition the future of the children. That, which is a shame, happens in Spain much more than in other countries of the environment. The resources have to be distributed by thinking of the most capable and the least prepared, those who come from illustrated families and those who come from households where books never enter. The public school is for that, to match from above. Children with learning difficulties have to find the possibility of customizing education there with a good system of tutors. The school also has to be a place to detect talent. The clumsy kid with mathematics can be a great pianist and the girl who is stifled by chemistry a future writer. We have resigned ourselves to Spain obtaining poor figures in educational evaluations. Do you know where that resignation comes from? That education in Spain has long been an appendage of political confrontation. Let's shake the acronyms when we talk about teaching. As for teachers, they have been stripped of the social prestige they deserve because we have lost sight of their importance in the development of future generations. In Citizens we bet on a teaching career marked by ambition and excellence, by that MIR for teachers that makes ours the best in Europe. Nothing can affect the future of a child as much as a good teacher. When he learned that he had been awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature, one of the first things Camus did was write a letter to his teacher, the already old Mr. Germain. She said to him, "Without the affectionate hand that stretched out to the poor child who was me, without his teaching, none of this would have happened. I want to live in a country where at the most important moment of your life there is an adult who remembers the teacher you had. Let us bet on the study centers, let us make them gain independence, let them regain their autonomy. The school must also be a place of coexistence where one learns to respect, to dialogue, to negotiate and to build. Specific programs are needed against bullying, homophobia and transphobia, because you also learn to be good people in school. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many things that separate us, some of us will probably never be able to agree - politics is so - but when we talk about education we are talking about something bigger than our acronyms. I ask you to make an effort to succeed in this task. Education is the only possible way to raise a Spain without fear of the future and without complexes, a country invulnerable to lies, demagoguery, populism and resentment; in short, a more just and freer country. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are not able to reach agreement on the education issue, we will be guilty of closing the window to that little girl I was talking about at first. I ask you to keep it open is the goal and commitment of those here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Rivera. Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u83	Thank you, President. We find his proposal surprising and provocative. Amazing because, after having had absolute majority in the last four years, after having imposed an educational law without any kind of dialogue with parents - who accompany us here - teachers, associations or educational groups, now when there are 123 they bring us a proposal for a pact. Mr. Married, I'm afraid your vision of education and Lomce's theoretical achievements comes from the worlds of Yupi. Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that if there is no educational pact in Spain, it is because the People's Party prevented it. I must remind you that former Minister Gabilondo has reached important agreements. Great efforts were made and great renunciations were also made in the field of education in order to reach them, but you did not trust them. At the last moment they turned away by defrauding everyone, and they have never wanted to give up using education as an electoral weapon; neither have they now. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that it was the Socialist Party that achieved the universalization of education and I must remind you that many people are here today with a university degree thanks to the scholarship policy that the Socialist Party achieved in Spain. [[Applauds]] Should we trust the People's Party now? Why now, after you haven't listened to anyone or counted on anyone? What the People's Parliamentary Group proposes is not a pact. What you propose is that this Congress revalidate your Lomce modus operandi. What you are asking - I quote literally - is the need to continue with the line of work begun in the past legislature in the field of education in order to constitute a great pact. Ladies and gentlemen, this group does not approve of this line of work, nor does it accept this line of brutal cuts, of being behind the backs of political groups, the educational community, the experts and all the people involved in education in this country. Pactar means to agree on something between two or more persons or entities, obliging each other to their observance. This definition of the SAR, which complements what has been agreed previously, involves at least two parties and I am afraid that with its background we cannot talk about the pact, because so far they have always taken decisions unilaterally. Our response is a failure to address this form of educational policy and this perversion of the malicious use of the term pact. A lack of clarity about the continuity of a law that is characterized by a mercantilist ideal, segregating in all senses, closing doors instead of opening them and excluding the student; a law that has returned to the most retrograde of Spain of the seventy with evaluable religion, with revalidated, with early itineraries, eliminating the participation and democratic character of educational institutions, eliminating the functions of school councils and creating an exclusively administrative center management. A no to an impromptu law with low funding and full of questions. When something doesn't remember, when something doesn't mature, it's destined for failure. That is why what you must do is to fulfil the mandate of this House, to comply with the paralysis of the Lomce, which is what we have agreed most of the time in this House only a week ago, because it is the feeling not only of the majority of parliamentary groups but also of Spanish society. The urgency is to stop the Lomce, and start with the sixth revalidation already. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal you are putting forward wants to take back the educational debate, to limit the voice to the educational and political community. What you propose - and should be known here - is not a social, educational or political pact, which is the model that the Socialist Group advocates, because to push for changes in education that affect society as a whole we must listen, rigorously diagnose and incorporate sensitivities, needs and adopt agreed proposals and measures. The People's Party wants a pact closed exclusively at the Sectoral Conference on Education, in which neither the political groups nor the educational community, which, by the way, they do not even convene, are present. Up to twelve autonomous communities have asked for this on three occasions - yesterday precisely the last - and have not paid any attention. The failure to convene the sectoral conference is causing us to have seventeen different educational systems in Spain because of its ineptitude, inaction, uncoordination and the general policy of this government. How can an educational law be implemented without talking to the autonomous communities? We are also surprised that in the explanatory statement, seven education plans have been agreed jointly at the sectoral conference. That is so, after eliminating most of the programmes of territorial cooperation; among others, the so important and to which you both appeal, as it is that of the fight against school dropout, and they say together. I explain: the white paper to which you referred was presented unilaterally and entrusted exclusively to one person, and the coexistence plan, with the Government in office and without having convened the State Observatory of coexistence in the last four years. They're telling us about a foreign language program that nobody knows anything about. They propose a program of connectivity of centers after having eliminated four years ago the program School 2.0. They also tell us about a support plan, measures for the implementation of basic vocational training. But if the basic FP doesn't need a support plan, what it needs is a modification from top down! Or should I remind you of the disaster of their implementation, the lack of foresight and even of fit with other teachings?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u85	Yeah, I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, we do want a pact, but certainly not a pact that imposes the continuity of a cut-off management and an unacceptable law, because that is a proposal for an educational pact through the false door that does not respond to the concept of a pact that society demands and that our educational system needs. On the contrary, we advocate a serious, educational, social and political pact counting on everyone, such as the one we have already tried, which is one of the immediate objectives of the Government of Progressive Change that we all want, but do not count on this group to support them in such a paripé and help them to wash their image before the educational community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Mr. Married, let me make it clear when we vote. Does your group accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u87	Yes, we accept the amendment tabled by the Forum Asturias Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u88	All right, thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON TAX REFORM AND FIGHT AGAINST FRAUD AND TAX EVALUATION. [[File number 162/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u89	Let us now move on to the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal on tax reform and the fight against fraud and tax evasion. Mr Saura has the floor to present the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-legislative proposal that we are going to discuss below seeks to put the tax and public revenue of our country at the heart of the Congress of Deputies. [[The lady]] We are at 6.6 points of GDP in relation to the EU average and we are at 8.2 points of the euro area average of public revenue in relation to GDP. However, we believe that, in order to put tax revenue policy at the heart of this Congress, we must propose, agree and approve a comprehensive and profound tax reform in our country. This is what the non-law proposal comes to say. Which way? The non-legislative proposal basically sets out three objectives. How can we do a fairer and more decent tax system in our country? Firstly, effective rates should be brought closer to nominal rates. This is the first problem that our tax system, our taxes, have, on the one hand, the nominal rates and, on the other, the effective rates, and we must bring the effective rates closer to the nominal rates. Secondly, wealth must contribute sufficiently to the financing of the welfare State. This is the second objective of an in-depth reform of taxes and taxation. The second objective is, in fact, to capture wealth from the point of view of taxes. Thirdly, we must combat tax fraud, aggressive tax optimisation, aggressive optimization against tax collection and tax evasion. This is the third point in the non-legislative proposal that we are putting forward and debating today. In that sense, and also in the non-law proposal, we understand that public revenue, taxation, has a global, international challenge and, therefore, Parliament must have a global vision; our Parliament must have a global approach to the tax problem. Indeed, our non-legislative proposal devotes an important part to the Government of Spain leading, within the European Union, the OECD, the UN, a bid for the fight against tax evasion and evasion. In order to combat tax fraud, ladies and gentlemen, two things are essential. Firstly, we need means and, secondly, we need to combat the deterioration of fiscal awareness in our country. What has this Government, the Government in office, done? Well, he hasn't done either. On material and human media, we could talk about human media. At the Tax Agency, now, there are about three thousand fewer people than four years ago. On the tax conscience, what am I going to tell you, ladies and gentlemen? This Government has seriously damaged fiscal awareness in our country as a result of its tax policy and its use of the Tax Agency. As this is what has happened, we propose a non-law proposal that is directed, precisely, towards this direction. For example, I would like to inform you that from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are proposing a compromise to create a commission of inquiry to investigate Panama's roles and its relationship with the tax amnesty. This is one of the points that we raise with the rest of the groups regarding the fight against fraud and the idea of improving the fiscal awareness of the Spaniards. Is a commission of inquiry going to be set up here? Let's see it next. Has it been created in the European Parliament? A committee of inquiry will be set up in the European Parliament to analyse what has happened to Panama's roles. Research committees have also been set up in other parliaments in our environment. Why not create it here? Here, it's probably more necessary. At the parliamentary seat, the Minister of Finance, in the Finance Committee, last week told us that many of the people and societies that appeared in Panama's papers had accepted the tax amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very serious because, since 2011, the Finance Inspectors, the Finance Technicians of our country, the judges and prosecutors can consult, can work with the information sent to them from Panama. But when that can be done since 2011, this government, to save many of those in Panama's roles, has approved a fiscal amnesty; to save many friends or leaders of the People's Party who are in Panama's roles, to save them. As information could be exchanged, as judges could use information, a tax amnesty was approved to save friends and leaders of the People's Party who were in Panama's role. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very serious, because the tax amnesty of Rajoy, of Montoro, of the People's Party, is the most important black money washing machine in our country's recent history. This is the reality. This is the reality. [[Applauds]] There are many leaders of the People's Party - Mr Soria, Mr Blesa, Mr Aznar, Mr Rato - who have shown an insolidity with the Spanish clear and obvious. They have used that path that the leaders of the People's Party call optimizing fiscal resources, optimizing taxation, using tax evasion or tax evasion to be insolidary basically with the Spaniards who need it most, because they do not believe in the welfare state and because they have no principles to be dedicated or dedicated to politics.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u91	Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u92	I'm done, Madam President. In other words, Mr Aznar, the Honorary President of the People's Party and many leaders of the People's Party have the honour in office. This is what we are seeing every day through what is known by the media. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, and I finish now, Madam President, I know that this committee of inquiry, if the parliamentary term is not extended, will not be approved. That is why I appeal to all the forces of change who understand that the Spaniards deserve a commission of inquiry into Panama's roles and fiscal amnesty. I appeal to all the forces of change to allow the legislature to analyze, investigate and approve everything related to Panama's roles and fiscal amnesty. That call for change because the Spaniards deserve that commission of inquiry. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u93	Thank you, Mr. Saura. We move on to the intervention of the Joint Parliamentary Group. First of all, Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u94	Thank you, Madam President. In two minutes, which is the hardest yet. After the emergence of the current economic crisis, which is still raging, a recipe was applied in 2008 mainly in the area we know. In the Spanish case, in the policies developed by the People's Party throughout the last legislature. A recipe that consisted of the following. Instead of punishing those responsible for the generation of the crisis, the great financial, economic and speculative powers, we make it pay to the victims, that is, middle and working classes. A recipe that was based on the fact that the victims had to bear the consequences and, moreover, pay them, because, as the Socialist Party's non-legislative proposal quite rightly points out, it is clear that in the Spanish State it seems that those who pay are exclusively the middle classes and the working classes, if we take care that out of every ten euros, nine are collected by that procedure. This non-law proposition is the other recipe. There are several possible but, fundamentally, the other. That they pay more for those who have more and that they pay for those who do not pay and, moreover, try hard to combat the origin of the speculative activities that are at the bottom and at the origin of the crisis that still rages. The only thing that would be regrettable, I said it in the last debate and I say it again now, is that having the opportunity for this new recipe to thrive, we do not all have the capacity to make this non-law proposal work. We are confident that those of us who have come to call ourselves the political forces of change will be able to live up to what citizens demand from us and put into effect a non-legislative proposal that New Canarias will enthusiastically support. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u95	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u96	Thank you, Madam President. For Euskal Herria Bildu the redistribution of wealth using tax tools in terms of progressiveness, equity and universality, together with the fight against fraud and tax evasion, is a priority. The reason is clear, it is what allows us to build a fairer, more cohesive society, guaranteeing the rights of all people. And we have done so in the four years that we have ruled the Gipuzkoa Diputation, despite having a fiscal competition framework of our own, yes, but insufficient. Proof of this are the good results in collecting in Gipuzkoa after increasing the resources for the prosecution of tax fraud. And I regret to say that after a first stage of cooperation in this policy by the Socialist Party, in recent times the PSOE has added its votes to those of the PNV to unravel the path of the tax on wealth and great fortunes, to cite a mere example. Moreover, no progress has been made in relation to corporation tax in the Basque Autonomous Community, although in Nafarroa, thanks to the agreement between the four forces that underpin the Government of Change. I must therefore make it absolutely clear to you that the proposal before us is totally inadequate because our redistributive model is much more ambitious, more progressive and more equitable. But I will also tell you - this is the second time I have done so in a short time - that we want a system in which those who have the most contribution for collective benefit, and we do not want it only for Euskal Herria, we also want it for Spanish citizens. And while we will continue to aspire and work towards full fiscal sovereignty, we will vote in favour of the proposal, the aim of which is to improve the distribution of wealth. And to do so, there is no need for fiscal amnesty; it is necessary to combat fraud, to get more income to meet social needs without cuts and to undertake the necessary reforms so that, once and for all, the tax effort on labour income and the large capitals will contribute their share, we no longer ask them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u97	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u98	Thank you. The Socialist Group is presenting us with this non-legislative proposal: on tax reform and the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. Okay, of course, okay. Now, they said there were a number of things that needed to be done. We understand that what is really needed is only one: political will, because each of the fiscal reforms that have taken place in the different governments has been more regressive than the previous one. We have been talking a long time about things like that first point that you pointed out, a committee of experts that in six months provides data. Perfect, let's see if this time they have civil society organisations that have been saying for more than fifteen years how to end tax havens or what new forms of taxation, such as tax on financial transactions, should have worked and been in place long ago. One such organization is Attac Spain, I know it well because I belong to it, and I think we have not been on any committee of experts, although, strangely, we have been much more successful with issues such as the financial crisis than the experts who have been on those committees. On the other hand, we all know, and there are data on it, that most of the tax fraud and these crimes are committed by big companies and big fortunes. However, your policies, what you sign in Brussels, your commitment to the free trade and investment treaties, on which there are forty-eight cases of lawsuits that include tax-related claims, are completely in the opposite direction. Mrs González Veracruz said that we could have this government out, but the problem is that we do not only want this government out; we also want to have its policies out of here. [[Applauds]] The policies that you vote for in Europe and the policies that you are going to make it impossible for all this that you are proposing to be real to vote for them with these gentlemen as well. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u99	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Candela.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in broad terms, we agree with the GNP on fiscal policy presented by the Socialist Group. I say this in broad terms because we have tabled amendments to your proposal with Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Izquierda Unita, precisely to ensure that the necessary reforms in tax matters are blacked out. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the need to put in place a new fiscal policy that gives the system real progressivity and properly graves wealth. Now you will be able to accept these amendments and move from the sacrosanct agreement with Citizens to the whole thing, because there are some who are already in the campaign and you have to make up the journey to the extreme center of your party. There is a problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, and we do not trust you. We do not trust you because you have systematically shown us that you say one thing and do the opposite. Five days ago they voted in favour of the European directive on trade secrets with the PP and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, with the directive that has been adopted by the PP and the Citizens, the defrauders of Panama's papers could denounce La Sixth and El Confidencial for revealing secrets. After adopting this directive, they come to us about tax fraud. I remember Gila when she was saying: good color, but she doesn't float. That is why we extend our hand for the umpteenth time to make a government for the Valencian, because we know that you, alone or from the hand of Citizens, would do quite the opposite of what the papers say. Mr Sánchez - absent, by the way - you have one week left to avoid new elections and our hand is still stretched out. Break the chains that bind you and make a government of change possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u101	Thank you, Mr. Candela. We move on to the intervention of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against fraud and tax evasion has been widely debated in this House, although the progress that has been made in reality does not seem to have been so intense. The People's Party's fiscal amnesty and the recent appearance of Panama's roles, among many other things, corroborate this. The position of our parliamentary group, the Basque Group, has always been clear on this point. We must fight fraud and tax evasion with all the means, legal, police and even educational, given the multiple cases of corruption and shame that are appearing linked to them. We must all be aware that when we fail we are robbing - yes - the rest of the citizens, we are depriving many of them of the resources they need to survive or preventing the proper implementation of social policies or the updating of public pensions. Our parliamentary group tabled a non-law proposal more than three years ago in order to amend the Criminal Code in order to stiffen the penalties for evaders and to raise the rate applicable to Sicav, all of which are in the hands of this Parliament. On the other hand, we have always been in favour of any measure or action aimed at combating fraud and tax evasion. We will support all measures in this direction. However, we have tabled a fundamental amendment to point 1 of this non-law proposal on fiscal policy. I find it incredible, but that is so: The proponents and other groups in this House ignore or want to ignore the fact that there are five haciendas in the Spanish state, each with its tax powers. Look, I have explained this in this House, as I will continue to do so as many times as I need to make this matter absolutely clear. The farms are: the alavesa, the gipuzcoana, the vizcaina, the navarra and the one called common territory. We can't forget about the four outlaw estates. The fiscal measures proposed in this Congress cannot interfere in the legal sphere of forality as an elephant in a cacharrerie; their measures must be confined to the hacienda that is called common territory. Hence our amendment; amendment that if it had not been accepted, we would certainly have voted against this proposal, because this is a crucial issue for us. It has been incorporated, fortunately, in a correct way in the compromise amendment that the Socialist Party has drafted, which facilitates our support for this initiative. We would have liked to abstain from paragraph 1, which is what we usually do when talking about tax matters in this House, but it is not possible because, since there is a compromise, we vote together. We have no problem in supporting the second paragraph; on the contrary, the measures are more general in nature and can be used to combat tax fraud and evasion, both of them and others. It can be said, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that in this GNP you are somehow shooting at a loss, that is to say, you have a large and scattered number of measures which, in our view, are still strong. But, I insist, we are willing to accept these and those that are needed. If I may, I will make a point about the non-law proposal model. Some of these measures seem somewhat excessive to me, given the situation of corruption and fraud in the Spanish State. To talk about promoting and leading within the European Union the development of a blacklist of tax havens, to promote in the OECD and the G-20 the adoption of an international strategy against tax havens, seems, if I may say so, a bit pretentious and even, I would say, disrespectful to what other countries are doing. I am not saying that it is not necessary, what I am saying is that we could or should be more humble and not put at the head of this manifestation. As the historical nationalist Juan de Ajuriaguerra used to say, converts, on the tail. Apart from the anecdote, I believe that efforts to combat fraud must be stepped up. The recent examples of Mr Aznar or Mr Rat and of so many others linked to politics or the facundula point this out. From the Basque Group we have no doubt: against the defrauders and the scoundrels, decisive measures must be taken and the sooner the better. We will therefore vote yes to this point 2, but, as I said to you, since in the end there is a compromise amendment which incorporates our amendment in order to circumscribe tax proceedings within the common territory, i.e. leaving aside and respecting the outside area, and bearing in mind that what we want to make clear is our support for the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, we will vote on the whole of the compromise amendment which in turn incorporates a point 3, setting up a commission of inquiry into Panama's roles, and we will do so in favour. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u103	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. Parliamentary Group on Democracy and Freedom, Mr Homs.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u104	President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is presenting this non-legislative proposal, which was put before us by Mr Pedro Saura, and I am confident that it has made many balances in order to facilitate a compromise on which I will also make a very brief assessment, but I will do so. I would like to begin my brief speech by pointing out that in the initial proposal - I insist that with the compromise some aspects have been improved, something that I welcome and appreciate - there were, from our point of view, aspects that were clearly positive and others that we do not share. That is what we have been talking about, and that is why we have tabled a number of amendments. There are positive aspects worth stressing, such as the establishment of a committee of experts. In fact, there have already been committees of experts; in December, a committee of experts linked to the Ministry of Finance recently presented a report. We should make a commitment, if this non-legislative proposal succeeds, that this committee of experts should be involved in its members by the various parliamentary groups that we set up in this Chamber. If not, it will ultimately be the expert commission of one government or another and perhaps we would be in the same. There are positive commitments, for example, in relation to cultural VAT. We should also incorporate the issue of sport, but it can be analysed. There are positive aspects to improving criminal legislation, but there are aspects that we do not share. For example, we do not share how the issue of corporate tax is addressed, although it has been nuanced in the transactional. We have not just shared it - and I believe that solutions have also been incorporated into the transactional that are valuable - because I believe that everyone, when we approach this issue, sees it more from the perspective of control, from the perspective of persecution - that there must be, would be more!, I will not say anything else - but we forget too often to encourage or value the one who contributes. At the moment, in our society - because this happens in Catalonia, it happens in the whole of Spain - it gives the feeling that if you pay taxes it is because otherwise, you are fined, but there is not enough tax awareness. And there we should a little - and more than a little, quite - change the paradigm of this culture, of this fiscal awareness that exists in our country. Nor do we consider favourably - before another intervener made a reference in this sense - this lack of sensitivity - let us say so, in a soft tone - towards a territorial scheme where it is not even envisaged that there can be, for example in the case of Catalonia, a tax administration of its own. This could be possible, in fact there is in other autonomous communities. In this respect, there are elements in favour of and against which we have been asked to table amendments, some of which have been taken into account and others which we must finish discussing. But there is one point at the end of this non-law proposal - and that is for me, in this context in which we are, very substantial because in the end there are so many aspects that we would never end up - and that is that it allows us to do something that seems essential to me, as it is to approve in this House the creation of a commission of inquiry into the roles of Panama. [[Rumors]] I believe that this is essential for what has happened, for the scandal and for what has happened. [[Rumors.- Several Members speak words that are not perceived]] Because it is not enough, it is not enough on the part of the current government in office that a minister has resigned from office, because too many things have happened here. For example, it is not consumable - and I already know it has nothing to do directly with Panama's roles, but it has, let's say, been in parallel over time and this helps this sense of scandal that requires a commission of inquiry of these characteristics that should also have a work plan of remarkable breadth - what has happened with Mr Aznar. [[Rumors]] It seems to me inconceivable that Mr Aznar finds what he has found and now he intends to become the victim and to be on the ground of pretending that they cannot investigate him. [[Rumors]] I don't know why you're sorry, you must do the same as Mr Aznar. I don't know why you're sorry, but don't be sorry because this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u105	Mr. Homs, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u106	It is exactly unacceptable and you, in fact, know it. [[Rumors]] And for that reason, because there are other things that we are not going to share in this transaction, our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour, precisely on the question of the committee of inquiry. And I want it to be stated in the 'Diary of Sessions' that there are other things that we do not share, but that reason is enough because otherwise, there would be no other parliamentary way of channelling the creation of this committee of inquiry. [[Rumors]] [[The Lord]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u107	Thank you, Mr. Homs. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Socialist Group, in perfect echo of the mermaid songs of the Zapatero government, of what they did not carry out when they ruled, tells us of a new, more efficient fiscal policy, of transition to a new economic model... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u109	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u110	...incentivizing productive investment, entrepreneurship, innovation and discouraging speculation and pollution, but, you know what, Socialist Group gentlemen? That in Catalonia we are already vaccinated against the lists of supporters. We are already in it, we are building our own wealth for the Catalan Republic and it is undoubtedly easier to establish a new tax regime from a constituent process that involves taxation from scratch than by modifying the inefficient and unfair Spanish taxation. We therefore advocate a system of progressive taxation, in which those who have the most pay more; a system of green taxation, in which those who pollute pay, where the income of the capital of speculation tax more than the income of labour, where speculative devices tax more than innovative and productive enterprises, where large enterprises do not enjoy privileges over small and medium-sized enterprises. A model, in short, transparent, participatory, based on the trust of the taxpayer in the system. This is the basis of the tax system which we defend for a new republic and which you will not be able to obtain with simple lists of desideratums on a system as ineffective as it is unjust and which is based on the expoliation of the most productive people, businesses and territories. They will tell me that this is also a desideratum and that it looks like ours. Yes, and in your non-law proposal you again forget the existence of the autonomous communities and that means forgetting the Administration that has the greatest weight in social spending. Look, gentlemen of the PSOE, in Esquerra we no longer come to beg for a fairer tax system, we only ask them in our amendment that, as a proof of sincerity, they withdraw all those remedies before the Constitutional Court that go against the taxes that the Generalitat has created in order to be able to maintain social spending and the shoal plan, the social shock plan in the face of the tragic situation of misery that the government subjects to citizens. Generalitat's taxes, such as those on bank deposits or nuclear, amount to more than 800 million euros, 800 million euros a year; 800 million that prohibit us to maintain our social spending while you have spent more than 800 million extra on military spending. By the way, the 800 million that PSOE, PP and Citizens did not want to adopt this morning in the Commission in order, at Esquerra's proposal, to set up a fund to combat child poverty. Since you are not able to guarantee a fair fiscal system for the autonomous communities, please allow us to raise the resources necessary to maintain our social policies, at least to fight poverty in the months that we still have to proclaim the republic. Although the Panamanian cherry of the cake is tempting, we will condition our position on the acceptance of our amendment. It is a pity that they cannot vote separately. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no more than four months ago, before starting this new stage as a citizen's deputy, he was a state finance technician in Valencia at the Tax Agency; an organization to which I deeply admire for its professionalism and dedication, although every year they are less officials in the fight against fraud, as Mr Saura recalled. Ladies and gentlemen, on 16 March, our Parliamentary Group, Citizens, also tabled a non-law proposal to combat fraud in the Committee on Finance, which was adopted by all the parliamentary groups except, incidentally, the People's Party. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pity, because we are convinced that many of your voters would agree with all these measures. It seems that your party is against recovering those 2.8 billion that have been lost by Mr Montoro's tax amnesty, which is not here today, against banning those tax amnesty, against bringing Panama on the list of those tax havens. By the way, your Government owes us an explanation of the relationship between them and why one of the last actions of your Government was to initiate proceedings to remove the tax haven from Jersey; I don't know, perhaps you have a reason, someone you know; perhaps you should talk to Mr. Soria. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u113	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, you voted against the strengthening of the Money Laundering Prevention Service and the complaints of tax offences. They know that the charges for tax offences are from 120,000 euros. I remind you that, in addition, in the last four years of your Government, small-scale inspections have taken precedence and complaints of tax offences have been dropped. Ladies and gentlemen, they voted against the control of the Sicav Tax Agency, those companies which also tax 1%, only 1%. They voted against a statute of the Tax Agency that resolves organizational problems, as well as increasing its staffing. I remind you of one fact, just one fact: in Spain the Tax Agency has only 5.4 officials per 10,000 inhabitants; the European average is twice as high. In addition to the return rate, that is, for each euro we invest in the Tax Agency we recover eleven. This year more than 1.3 billion were allocated to the fight against fraud and we recovered more than 15.6 billion. Really when I talk about staffing, when I see that the staffing of the Tax Agency is being reduced... Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you a simple anecdote very quickly. A few days ago a fellow promoter called me and said: Vicente, do you remember the case of José Bretón, the murderer who killed his two children? That person requested a transfer from prison for rapprochement with his family and was granted it last month. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much more mobility of prisoners in our prisons than there is mobility of officials in the Tax Agency. [[Applauds]] My recognition from here, from this rostrum, to those who fulfill their duty away from their family home. And it's all because there's no increase in staffing. In short, they voted against providing the Tax Agency with the means to collect the late. The amendment to article 95 of the General Tax Act, including that list of late men, is very good, but, ladies and gentlemen, for more than two consecutive years there is no need to charge 50 billion euros; 50 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen. Today, in his appearance in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mr De Guindos presented us with negative macroeconomic forecasts: the failure to meet the deficit, the reduction in the growth rate of the economy, announced further cuts; and again, that missed opportunity when he really had it in his favour. Mr. De Guindos told us he had a tail wind. Ladies and gentlemen, with only 7 billion we would have the resources to make the reforms we have put in place with the Socialist Party, with only 7 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a simple, very simple example. Do you know what this is? [[Show a cigarette]] This is a cigarette. I am convinced that some of you would like to smoke a cigarette in this House, but you know perfectly well that you cannot smoke in this House; you know that it is also sanctioned. However, I don't see anyone of you smoking, even in hiding, and of course it's not because you're going to punish them, but because your own comrades would point out to you, your own comrades would tell you that you don't smoke here because it's very badly seen. The opposite of what happens with fraud happens, the opposite of what happens with tax evasion and corruption. Some not only tolerate it, but also reward the unjust behaviors of those who evade taxes with their tax amnesties. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u115	Mr. Ten, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u116	Mr Montoro did so in 2012, but his socialist ladies and gentlemen also did so in 1984, 1991 and 2010. I shall conclude, Mr President. Today is a very special day, not because it is the first time I have come to this rostrum, but because I believe that Kennedy's spirit must be invoked in 1961. Let us not seek the votes of those with less resources, but let us seek the just. The fight against tax fraud and corruption is of social justice and that just contribution, which is reflected in article 31 of the Constitution, is, of course, what our welfare State maintains. Ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group can only vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal, having incorporated into the text some of the measures contained in the tax reform that we are carrying out with the agreement of the two hundred reforms. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, and I finish, public money is not of a few, public money is of all Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ten. Mrs Honorato has the floor for the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is presenting to us today in this House a proposal that has interesting initiatives, that pays more who has the most and not only who wins the most, that the effective rate of corporation tax is rescued, that the financial transaction tax is lifted at once, that the ecological tax is put on or that we are taken seriously in the fight against fraud. These measures are especially important if we want to stop the loop in which we are experiencing cuts, recession, more cuts, more recession. For this it is essential to seek fiscal sufficiency and fiscal sufficiency not only on the expense side, but especially in the case of Spain on the income side, with a progressive tax reform and a determined fight against fraud. While, as we say, we like this proposal, it is true that we have two concerns. The first relates to some inconsistencies of the proposing party and others to some of the absences that have been the subject of amendments, some included and others not, in the transactional. As for the chapter of inconsistencies, as we say, this song we like, the song of the proposition that is presented, but we do not marry very well with some of the actions that the Socialist Party has carried out from the government in the last legislatures. We did not get married very well when he reduced the IRPF sections and neither did we get married very well when the VAT went up in 2 points to the families of this country in 2010. [[Applauds]] Nor do we get married, and this is now more current, with the government pact with Citizens that opens the door to the co-op and leaves in a drawer an ambitious tax reform where it is committed by progressive, fair and effective taxation. We spoke before two concerns, one on inconsistencies and the other on absences. As far as absences are concerned, it seems to us essential that the income tax forecasts be included in a tax reform. We cannot understand how a tax reform is not proposed for that 5% of the population who earns more than 60,000 euros so that they can pay a little more and we have a more progressive and fairer tax. Nor do we understand how a more comprehensive reform of VAT is not included, a reform that extends those foods to which a super-reduced rate of 4% and a reduced rate of 10% is applied to basic supplies in this country. Finally, I cannot finish my speech without specific reference to the proposals on the fight against fraud. In Spain, the loss due to the submerged economy is estimated at around EUR 60 billion. It's an amazing figure, a figure that requires us to get serious. To be serious is to present a comprehensive anti-fraud plan that contains quantifiable objectives in order to then be able to evaluate them and to become serious is also to claim the development of a statute of the Tax Agency that allows it to be autonomous in its functioning, choosing the president of the Tax Agency in this House, in Congress. To take it seriously is to choose the objectives well, where we are heading. According to Gestha's reports, the Finance Technicians' Union, it has often been put on the table that 72 % of fraud belongs to large companies and large fortunes and that 80 % of the agency's resources are dedicated to pursuing small fraud, to the self-employed and to SMEs. Well, we believe that it is necessary to reverse that order, that we really see where the great fraud is in this country: in the big companies and in the big fortunes. But the most important thing of all, ladies and gentlemen, to take it seriously is to have a strong political will, absolutely determined to put an end to tax havens. Everything in a tax haven is where it shouldn't be. He must be in his country, generating wealth, opening hospitals, training professionals, investing in development, teachers, teachers and schools. That's where that money should be. [[Applauds]] To take it seriously is not to put the wolf to care for the chickens. In order to be able to act against tax havens one cannot have a hand inside them, gentlemen of the PP, but it is also not to take it seriously to do what Mr Zapatero did, who took Panama off the list of tax havens in 2013. [[Applauds]] Nor should it be taken seriously to vote with the Group of the European People's Party on the appointment of the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, who was the designer of the suits as the multinationals' tax evasion at the expense of the era of all the countries of the Union. [[Applauds]] However, as I said at the beginning, we like the music of this proposition. However, we do not want mermaid songs either; we want this music to be concrete lyrics and to be written in the BOE by the hand of a government of change. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Honorato. Mr Rojas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is a copy of the Socialist Party's electoral programme, taken curiously by Citizens in an agreement that has already been defeated in this House and it really seems to us a mistake to persevere in defeat and engage in agreements that are impossible. Look at the paradox of the moment. Mr Saura said that this initiative is designed to raise more revenue for the State, but the refusal of Mr Sánchez and the Socialist Party to dialogue with the People's Party, which has won the elections, is leading us to an electoral campaign and elections that cost 130 million euros to the taxpayer. Look at what a paradox! Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the initiative is concerned, we reject a tax proposal which involves an indiscriminate rise in taxes. Moreover, it is full of alleged lessons from those who dropped tax collection by almost 70 billion euros, it is true that for the crisis, but also for bad political and tax decisions and, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to go back to the policies that led us to the record of unemployment and to an unprecedented crisis in our country. Our goal is the opposite. Our goal is to lower taxes and provide better services, and for this we invite you to be with us. The more than 20 million Spanish citizens who have seen their taxes cut to two times with the reform of the People's Party are proof of the correctness of these measures. Domestic consumption has been activated and, as domestic consumption has been activated, employment has been activated. We have the best employment growth figures in the European Union in the last two years in our country. We have to do much more, but of course those measures have been good. With this reactivation of consumption and employment, the welfare state is guaranteed, pensions can be secured and public health, public education and debt left by the Socialist Party in hospitals, schools, health and education are paid. That is the work that this Government has done. [[Applauds]] We invite you to focus on these successful policies. With the management of his Government between 2007 and 2011 the collection of large companies and groups fell from 18,000 to 7.7 billion euros and this implies unemployment and unemployment, but with the management of the People's Party the collection of large companies and groups has multiplied by 2.5 and has increased from 7.7 billion to 18.9 billion. That implies more employment and, of course, that has attracted more investment and it has been possible to fight with more instruments against the crisis. That ends with that mantra that you always use that the People's Party is with the multinationals. No, the People's Party is with people, it's with people, it's with the welfare state and to get Spain out of the crisis. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to tax fraud, more than EUR 50 billion has emerged in the last parliamentary term, i.e. 37.5% more than in the Socialist Party. We are facing a historic record in our democracy and, by the way, our measures have always had the vote against the Socialist Party. The regulatory changes introduced by the People's Party Government have worked and there is nothing to recognize. If you recognize it, you will gain in credibility as a political organization. For example, model 720, a model that has obtained in its first year with the declaration of the goods abroad and the shares the collection of 91 billion euros of 136,000 declarants. That's the right fiscal policy. Those are solutions. You're talking about tax amnesty here. The only two fiscal amnesties that have ever been of the Socialist Party in 1984 and 1991, both opaque, without fiscal effects, saving anonymity and in which the State had to pay for that money. Those have been the fiscal amnesties we have had in our democracy. The People's Party has made a regularisation that has allowed more than 100 billion euros to emerge. When the collection had fallen and this government had to take action, it did so, just as it was done in Germany and Italy in 2009 and in Portugal in 2010, but always with the vote against the Socialist Party. Why didn't you do something to look for more collection during your stage of government? For example, when the Falciani list arrived, what they did was invite taxpayers who were included in it to submit a spontaneous supplementary statement, thus avoiding further sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen, you have diverted the problem and now you want a commission of inquiry into Panama. For we tell you that Treasury will investigate to the last role, as it is natural and as it has to be, taking away the populism from which you always want to impregnate political life and doing real politics to bring our country forward. Your proposal lacks credibility. I'll be done right away, Mr. President. It seems to me consistent to hear the Government say that here we are all subject to the rule of law, regardless of who it is. It seems to me consistent that the Government should say that justice is independent and that it operates without interference from the Executive. Apart from the obvious, they are coherent things, because they are what we have seen with this government in these four years. However, you tell us in this initiative that an agreement is needed to draw up a blacklist of countries with tax havens. I don't know if you're referring to Panama, but it's just that you excluded Panama from that list. It said Gardel on Return that twenty years is nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, with socialist governments there were public companies, such as Focoex, that paid in tax havens such as Panama or the Bahamas. That was the case with the Socialist Party and we say that we do not want that for our country. We don't want those policies. [[Applauds]] Any past time wasn't better and that wasn't better. You are calling for the penalties for tax offences to be increased, but this is precisely what was done in the past parliamentary term with the People's Party, and you voted against this reform of the Penal Code. Is that consistent, ladies and gentlemen? I remind you that in the 2015 reform it was approved that sentences should not be suspended until the sentenced person has reinstated the disappointed and you have not agreed.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u121	Mr. Rojas, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u122	I'll be done right away, Your Honor. Moreover, where they govern, the money of EREs or training is not being recovered. Of the EREs, EUR 1.2 million of EUR 855 million has been recovered. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to the facts, 0.1 % of what has been defrauded, and the rest prescribing. If those are the anti-fraud policies, we do not want them in the People's Party, we say it loud and clear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u123	Finish it now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u124	I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you come up with proposals that are constructive, that move away from populism and electoralism, that want to build a country, that want to look to the future to solve the many problems that our country still has, you will always have the People's Party there. If they come with populism and demagogy, they will never find us on that path. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u125	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. Mr Saura, I understand that you accept that the compromise amendment that has been signed with a number of groups should be put to the vote. [[Consent]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u126	Before we begin with the votes, we will proceed to read out an institutional statement signed by all the groups in the House. The first secretary of the Bureau will read of it right now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Proposal for institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies to the earthquake in the Republic of Ecuador on 16 April 2016. Last Saturday, April 16, the Republic of Ecuador suffered an earthquake of magnitude 7.8 on the Richter scale. The magnitude of the earthquake and the very serious consequences it has had make the Republic of Ecuador and its people facing the greatest catastrophes of the past thirty years. The Congress of Deputies deplores the terrible consequences of this earthquake and conveys its condolences and those of the entire Spanish people to the families of the victims waiting for a speedy and complete restoration of the wounded and affected by this catastrophe. Likewise, the Congress of Deputies wishes to express the deep feelings of solidarity of Spanish society with all those affected, the people and the Government of the Republic of Ecuador, as well as to appeal to all public authorities, agencies and organizations linked to humanitarian aid and cooperation, to facilitate the means available to convert the massive solidarity expressed by Spanish citizens into effective assistance to the people affected in the same coordination framework through which it has been possible to send material and effective means to the Republic of Ecuador of the EMU and other specialized groups in the immediate response to such disasters. The Congress of Deputies sends an affectionate recognition to the broad Ecuadorian community based in Spain, as well as its wishes that this tragic event has affected as little as possible their families and property in Ecuador. Congress of Deputies, April 19, 2016. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u129	We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, we voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, amending the system of judicial fees. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 322 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u130	Consideration of this proposal for a law is hereby approved. [[Applauds]] - the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Cyprus, amending Organization Act No. 5/1985 of 19 July 1985 of the General Electoral System for the THE RIGHT OF ACTIVE Suffrage TO THE BETWEEN 16 YEARS [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 122/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u131	We then voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime to extend the right of active suffrage to those over sixteen years of age. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 174 against, 144 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u132	Consideration of this proposal for a law is hereby approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u133	We then proceed to vote on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the achievement of a national pact in the field of education and vote on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group of Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 107 against, 179 abstentions, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u134	The non-legislative proposal is rejected. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON TAX REFORM AND FIGHT AGAINST FRAUD AND TAX EVALUATION. [[File number 162/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u135	We then vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on tax reform and the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, and we vote on the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, the Catalan Parliamentary Group, the Basque Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Garzón and Mrs Oramas. [[Democracy and Freedom]] [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 208 against, 105 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u136	The proposal for a law was approved. [[Applauds]] We turn to item III of the agenda, and having received notice of the Government's view that the House cannot submit to the Government in office control initiatives in relation to the oral questions on the agenda of this plenary meeting, the Board of Spokesmen, at its meeting today, has agreed that in the event of the actual absence, which we now find, of the members of the Government for the answer to these questions, they would be understood to fall from the agenda and a three-minute turn of the parliamentary groups would be opened - there will be no generosity, on this occasion, in time - for the parliamentary groups to set their position on this matter. As agreed, we will proceed to consolidate this shift from seat to seat and from minor to major, as we also agreed this morning on the Board of Spokespersons. We started this round with the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to refer to a previous question and it is clear that the four votes we have just taken have seen a majority which could follow in the next parliamentary term. He's clearly seen himself. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I am speaking on behalf of the seven formations that we make up the Joint Parliamentary Group and that we always have so little time to be able to assert our decisions. Voters, citizens, all they ask us to do is work, win the paper. You, the absent government, making decisions, making decisions, and us asking. You should face up to the decisions you make and we should ask you about these decisions. We reviewed the twenty questions we had for today. I want to make a couple of considerations. For example, the Government agreed to 14,931 refugees. The Government in office has only brought 18, and we cannot ask the Government in office why it has only brought 18. The Government, Minister Montoro, sent letters to the Autonomous Communities, responsible the Autonomous Communities for the deficit. It has prompted them to freeze the expenditure, and we cannot ask Mr Montoro for that. The Government issued a tax amnesty. Panama papers have appeared and new names appear every day that have even affected Minister Soria. And we cannot ask the government in office about that minister and whether there is any connection between tax amnesties and Panama's roles. Finally, the Government resorted to the right to housing laws of the Canary Islands, Navarra and Andalusia. And we cannot ask the Government in office whether it is going to appeal to the law of emergency housing in Catalonia or to the law of the Valencian social function. We understand that these are reasonable questions and we understand that this Government did not have to be the Wally Government, the Government that hides from the citizens. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Esteban has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u139	It would have been good, Mr President, if we could have seen how much time we have left, as is usually done in the questions, because, if not, from the seat it will be quite complicated. It is quite disappointing, but quite tired already, to draw the Government's attention to its escape, to that attempt to escape the control of this Parliament, even to hear the views of this Parliament for what it has to do strictly, which is to continue to govern, because that is why it is called government, even if it is in office. However, we have tried as an active and passive person, we have pointed out it over and over again, and here, unlike some spokespersons thought, the ministers have not even come to vote, because they did not want to go out in the photo, escaping before the beginning of control. They haven't even come to vote. This reminds me of other attitudes of relatively recent times, blockades of organs of important State institutions such as, for example, the Constitutional Court simply because it was not suitable for the color that blocked it, which, incidentally, coincides with that of the Government in office at the moment. We talk a lot about Spain, we talk a lot about the Constitution, we talk a lot about the institutions, but I think that all this remains in great words, and when it comes to acting the big parties act playing the little one, what is right for them electorally or what they think is right for them electorally. Of course, we can make non-legislative proposals and tell the government what this House thinks, because things are still happening. This is news this afternoon: The plant of Arcelor Mittal de Zumárraga completely ceases its activity. I have to say here that the Bureau has been exquisite and has not accepted that we can ask the government about this when this House unanimously requested the government to take account of this situation, to act in Europe and to act here as well. We wanted to know what you've done this week, but it's impossible to know. Is this within the functions of the Government? Is the government already doing something, or is it not doing anything? And that this cannot be commented on in a control session in the Congress of Deputies is the fault of the Government, but also, unfortunately, of this institution. Or what happens to a government that, although in office, resorts again and again to accelerated steps, at a rate that has not yet been known, all the laws of the Basque Parliament? Well, we're not gonna know either. But with this escape, this one does not even come to vote, it has certainly been reflected what the political attitude of this Government is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u140	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. I am going to confess to you something that we will also share with all the speakers: this is a turn of those who can be many things, but it is certainly not comfortable for anyone because the lack of a government presence, even if it is in office, in a House to which it is undoubtedly due is not an expression of good democratic quality. This is beyond a doubt. And organizing a shift, as we agreed - I am co-responsible, not critical in this sense - for the general lament is not very upbuilding either. I say this because the PP and the PP government are going to make it clear with these interventions that we are not going to get tired of; we are not going to get tired of reporting those things that we do not like, although even we are uncomfortable with them. But what is relevant to me as far as the timetable is concerned, what I truly regret is the political incapacity of you, gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and of you, gentlemen of Podemos, because with your political incapacity - and I say it from the heart - these gentlemen of the People's Party are going to be here - it seems to be - a few more months. And regret is not worth it because you have the real possibility that these things will change within your reach. When one tries - and it is legitimate to try - an investiture and draws 131 votes in favour and 219 against, it is purely logical to have to change the approach inevitably. That is where it is worth putting the focus today because, if not, we will accumulate all regrets. We are not going to get tired, gentlemen of the People's Party, this is for sure, but do you know what happens, gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and of Podemos? They're gonna win for now, and that's, of course, what we don't want. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Homs. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u143	Good evening. We will show our indignation, but we will also continue to work and, therefore, we will also ask the Minister, Mrs Pastor, wherever she is, what we came to tell you tomorrow morning. We show at the outset our absolute indignation at the contempt which the Spanish Government does not feel for this Parliament; also at the contempt it feels for the citizenship it still represents today, and in this case - that was our question - for the citizenship which in Catalonia suffers daily from the consequences of a harmful management of Renfe and for which this Government is actively and passively responsible; passively for not investing in the trains of neighbourhoods and regionals, and actively for detracting these investments to finance empty AVE trains, because the AVE trains, Mr Rajoy, are wherever they are, like the brains, it is not the same as they are empty or filled. Because while the AVEs are empty, those of Catalan closeness are full and arrive late. Because while Catalonia has the worst Renfe service in the whole Spanish state, according to the president of Renfe himself, you have generated more than 24 billion euros of debt on AVE trains that go from Madrid to all the cardinal points. Even so, they have not been able to invest even 10% of the €4 billion that the Spanish state government approved in 2010 for the Catalonian Neighbourhood Plan. We could set a lot of examples. The R 11 and GR 1 - which in case the absent minister does not know it are the backbone of the conventional train, the social train, the train of the majority of the population, the train of the people, the train of the normal people of the Gironinian regions and of much of the population of Barcelona - are made a disaster. The platforms are in poor condition, there is no maintenance or information at the stations, in most of them there is not even staff, there is no hourly coordination. The R 3, the Via Barcelona-Vic-Ripoll-Puigcerdà, an international line, has multiple accessibility problems at the stations, especially for people with reduced mobility. To all this are added the specific consequences of the lack of investment, such as the fire that occurred in the basement of Barcelona a few days ago. The fault of all this is unique and exclusive to the Spanish Government, to the Ministers who are absent today, to the President-in-Office who neither faces nor is in this Chamber, of them it is the fault, to this Government which has shown so much contempt for the trains in Catalonia as today for the Members and Members who wanted only to control it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u145	Thank you, President. Any citizen who is seeing us and who has surely come home to work - if he has a job - would not even think about not going to his job and today the Government has not come to his job, which are the General Courts, the Congress of Deputies. [[Rumors]] No citizen... I ask you to remain silent because above that the Government does not come, it is only necessary that we should not be allowed to speak to those who have come. [[Applauds]] Don't be nervous that your government isn't here. The second thing I wanted to say to the Spanish citizens is that the blocking stage, the stage of no, the stage of not appearing in the House, the stage of not giving accounts, the stage of political decadence is over, will be over sooner than later. What we are seeing is that the government does not hold back, that it does not earn the salary, that it does not face - often paper - is going to end. I am convinced that Spain will rise from this stage of decadence. Spain and the Spanish deserve a government that simply earns the salary, a government that simply answers the Members that we have to fulfil our role. I am convinced that we are facing an end of the stage and I would not think of a better picture for this end of the stage than the absence of Mr Rajoy and his entire government not to face us here today, in this House. On the other hand, I wanted to make reference to the stage we are going to live, because Spain is going to rise from it. We are going to have a new government, we do not know who the president will be or who will be part of the government, we do not yet know what the majority will be but there will be a Spanish government. There will be a new government of Spain with people who respect the Spaniards, there will be a new president of Spain - whoever it is - who will face the Spaniards. There will be a new political stage in which the dialogue and legitimate discrepancy in this House with which we do not think alike is the result of normality. Therefore, I am convinced that this is the end of a stage that will soon be over. If you continue to block the legislature we will have to repeat the elections; if you allow the legislature to move forward even if it is not your government, we will be able to implement all these reforms. [[Rumors]] In conclusion, I also want to refer, logically, to that stage. I am convinced that it is impossible for Spain to move forward if we do not have a government that faces the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not an election at the disposal of the People's Party to face Congress, it is a constitutional obligation. Here today the Members we are fulfilling, you too, have to endure, I am convinced, things that you do not like. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u146	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u147	I'm running out of President Rajoy, but others have come. I am convinced that you do not like to put up with this, the paper that you have to put up with without your government here. You have to win a spot on the list, but it's uncomfortable not to face it. So, I'm asking you... [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous, I'm done. [[One Member: There is little left]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u148	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u149	There is little left and there is also little left for something else, so we will have a new Government of Spain and there will be a president and ministers who come to face all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Iglesias has the floor, in this case for two and a half minutes. The clock won't mark that time surely because it can't, but it'll be two and a half minutes. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before, when we were talking about the sixteen-year-old vote, some Members have evoked times of wine and roses of their youth. I remembered when we went to high school and sometimes we missed class. In Madrid, that's what we call skinning. It's not good for high school kids to make skins, but that has a pass. What does not have a pass is that the government of this country is making skins, that Mr. Mariano Rajoy is making skins. The Constitution says a very simple thing in its article 66: the General Courts represent the people; the General Courts control the action of the Government. We want to make this Constitution better, but we respect it a lot because we know that the powerful do not need laws and constitutions because they have a lot of money; sometimes they even have their money in Panama, not just those of the People's Party. But normal people only have the laws and constitutions, and what I ask you, the gentlemen of the government who are making skins, is that you stop making skins and simply respect the Constitution and the laws. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. Mrs Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u153	Thank you very much. I'll be very clear. There must be very little shame in refusing to be accountable to this House on the argument that the Government is in office when the same Government is considering an appeal to the Constitutional Court to suspend Law 24/2015, against housing emergency and energy poverty, a law that emerged from an ILP and passed by a majority in the Parliament of Catalonia. This Government, which is not here, is dedicated to studying how to suspend laws that resolve the problem of evictions and supply cuts, and above it without wanting to explain. It is very clear to us who they govern, even when they are in office. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Hernando has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, why does the government in office not want to come and explain to the Congress of Deputies and to be democratically controlled by it? That is the question that we had asked the President of the Government today, but my group, out of institutional respect for this House, has argued that twenty-five questions should not be asked to the empty seats of the members of the Government. It is the institutional respect that the Government has not had for this House and for citizens not coming to this session of control and the institutional respect that it has not had for citizens and workers who get up every morning, who go to work and who often receive an unfair salary for that work; however, today the members of the Government are going to charge for not working. The President of the Government and his ministers defend that they do not have to come to explain for Panama's roles when Panama's roles have taken the Minister of Industry ahead, we do not know whether by lying massively or by having companies in tax havens. The President of the Government and his ministers argue that they do not have to come to face the deviation of the deficit and prefer to send Minister Montoro to threaten the autonomous communities and more social cuts and more rights cuts. They claim that they do not have to come to explain for hosting eighteen refugees, a humanitarian scandal in front of the hundreds of thousands! What has to happen in this country for Mr. Rajoy to come here to give his face and explain? The empty image of the blue bank is sad, but it is consistent with that of a president of the government who has spent his life fleeing. Recently he has fled twice from the candidacy for the investiture and today has fled from his ghosts, from the ghosts of the present and from the ghosts of the past, from the ghosts called Soria, who are called Barberá, who are called González, who are called Rat and even Fabra who, by the way, has passed to the third degree. The absence of the President of the Government today is a political epitaph of the career of a person who has spent his life without wanting to face the institutions and the Congress of Deputies. It has sent its subordinates to the electoral debates. That he's appeared through the plasma. A government president who has left the Congress of Deputies by the back door and the Senate by the garage! [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to be told by the People's Parliamentary Group that none of us is right, that we are unjust, that we are inconsistent and that our demands are not legitimate, but I say to you: this is going to be the last government in office in the history of Spanish democracy that does not come to face this Congress of Deputies. This is not going to happen again. [[Rumors]] Let us all choose a government and a president that respects the institutions, that respects democracy; a president and a government that are decent and that come here to face the face and not to run away, as Mr Rajoy has done. [[Protests]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u156	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to disappoint you because I do not think I will surprise anyone if I announce that my group does not share the position of those who now hold that political control can and should be exercised by a government in office. And I say 'now' because some who defend this position so strongly and vehemently this afternoon, just a few months ago, held exactly the opposite in the Parliament of Catalonia and in the Parliament of Andalusia. [[Applauds]] In the latter case, moreover, it was endorsed by a legal report which stated that there was no point in subjecting a functioning Government to political control which was limited to the ordinary management of public affairs. And that unusual position that has entered them - because in February nobody here demanded it - can be qualified in many ways less coherent, Mr Hernando. And don't tell me that it's unprecedented for a functioning government to refuse to appear because the unheard of and the suspect at the same time is that for the first time in democracy it is intended to force a functioning government to submit to general control in this House beyond what is permitted by law. That had never happened in this House, ladies and gentlemen. Never has a President of the Government or a Socialist minister in office come to this House or come to this House or answer a single question from the opposition, Mr Hernando. [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] And we, in this legislature, did attend the government. By the way, do not tell me that there was no time with you because there was, and I remind you that the last government of Felipe González was in office for two months and neither was there any control. [[Rumors]] So say what you want, but the reality is that there are no legal or parliamentary precedents that support your position. And since there are none, they have not given us a new argument either, and the only thing they have done is a retaliation of disqualifications to the Government, which only show that their real intention is not to control the Government politically and constitutionally, but to wear down the People's Party politically. You yourself said that this morning at the Spokesman's Meeting: we are aiming for a political effect. Well, they already have it! For that you have all agreed; to dialogue with the People's Party and try to form government not, for that not and above you want to blame us for it. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] And I ask you: where is it written that the Spaniards wanted to exclude the People's Party from dialogue if they gave us all a mandate for a pact? Where is it written that the Spaniards wanted me to rule the Socialist Party if they gave it the worst result of their history? [[Applauds.-Protests]] Where is it written that the Spaniards gave a mandate for change if they gave us the victory of the People's Party? Well, it's not written anywhere, so stop distorting the ballot box. Finally, Mr President, a little coherence. We are going to maintain this afternoon, unlike you, the same position we have held in other Parliaments and other legislatures. Do you know why? Look at that bench: a cohesive and unquestioned party. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-19-CD160419.u158	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and twenty minutes of the night.
