ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Before we continue with the agenda, I should like to inform you that the calculation for today's vote is that it will take place at around 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u2	We begin with the item on the agenda concerning the request made by the Parliamentary Groups Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto setting up a commission of inquiry concerning the alleged irregularities, administrative errors or lack of means made available to Spanish citizens residing abroad to exercise their right to vote. For the defence of this request, Mr Martínez has the floor in the first place, for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u3	Mr. President, good morning. I speak on behalf of the Forum to express support for the establishment of this commission of inquiry concerning the exercise of voting by Spanish residents abroad. The reform of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime introduced numerous changes, among others, in the guarantees for the voting procedure of the Electoral Census of Absent Residents - CERA -, which came into force with the reform of the Organic Law 2/2011 in January of that year, and which was the result of a joint parliamentary initiative, with important work within the Constitutional Commission, completed almost six years ago, during the IX Legislature. We are talking about amendments that in no case were promoted through the exercise of the legislative initiative provided for in article 87 of the Constitution and attributed to the Government. It is important to highlight this, because since it is a core issue in democracy - nothing less than the exercise of the vote - this is a type of reform... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u4	Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u5	... that must always be considered in search of the highest degree of consensus, and so we believe in the Forum that it should continue to be done as long as laws are the pillars of a democratic and rule of law State. In fact, although there was no unanimity in the final vote on the opinion of this law, it should be noted that by a very large majority a reform was approved which had a unique impact on Spanish residents abroad, for which greater demands were identified in order to ensure that the procedures established for the exercise of the vote were cleaned up, starting with a request for a vote within a certain period of time, although it has been found that the changes have had a very significant impact on the low voter turnout. The added interest of Forum to support this commission of inquiry arises from the experience lived in Asturias. On 25 March 2012, autonomous elections were held there, and a few weeks later my party filed a complaint for alleged crimes of falsification and infraction of voting by mail in the Electoral Census of Absent Residents - CERA - because the votes of 334 voters who did not appear in the relationship of those who had requested the authorization to exercise the right to vote, according to the electoral law, what is called a petitioned vote, a legal step that is essential in order to exercise the vote. This demonstrated the laxity of controls by the body responsible for ultimately ensuring compliance with established legal requirements. With the official data in hand and for publicly questioning the cleansing in the calculation of the CERA votes carried out in the above-mentioned autonomous elections, I myself was the subject of proceedings by the prosecutor's office of the Principality of Asturias, which were subsequently referred to the Supreme Court for my status as a striker. The Supreme Prosecutor's Office filed them conclusively. That is, our own experience in Asturias believes us to be harmed in a matter and not without weighty arguments. In fact, the High Court of Justice of Asturias ruled on the repetition of elections of the migrant vote for the western constituency, after estimating the appeal, declaring the ballot invalid and leaving the allocation of one of the 45 seats of the General Board of the Principality to a standstill. Subsequently, the Constitutional Court partially admitted the amparo appeals filed against the ruling that had given the Forum the reason, although it should be noted that one of the judges cast a particular vote in which he held the need to take into account the drawbacks of repeating an election, but - he also said - that it could not be ruled out with a reasonable margin of security that the calculation of the null votes could have altered the election result. The demands of the principle of material truth, which aspires to know the real will of voters, call in this case for the repetition of the vote, points out the Constitutional magistrate in his particular vote. In conclusion, Mr President. The committee of inquiry is promoted on the basis of the decrease in the participation of the voters of the CERA, due to very limited deadlines and doubts about the administrative breaches at the origin of the process, delays in the receipt of ballot papers and delays in postal services, among other aspects. We too want to investigate irregularities in the process of receiving votes, in their inclusion in the ballot box and in their final count, which, as has been pointed out, can alter the definitive distribution of seats and even the possibilities for the formation of a Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u7	Good morning. Since words are never or almost never innocent, the vote begged from the beginning seems to have been a big mistake. The purpose of the committee of inquiry proposed at this time is to audit political, technical responsibilities, but above all to propose solutions, because what we cannot keep to is that a participation that was more than 30% before a law is now below 5%. This was already seen in 2011, and in this House a proposal from the Galician Parliament that already addressed this problem was left to die, with which we believe that the mobilization of people, the citizens themselves from platforms like the Granate Sea, should make us see that there is a problem, because as I said the words are not innocent, and simply that we have to ask for the possibility of a right already tells us how unlucky this law has been since its inception. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u9	What we have seen is that participation has fallen, and as the only thing we all agree on in this House is in the sacrosanct representative democracy, at least here we should do everything we can to ensure that all the votes of the Spaniards abroad, that 2 million votes can be exercised as a right and not begged or stolen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. Mr Bustinduy has the floor for the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u11	Thank you very much, President. In these dark times in which thousands of families flee from war, persecution and death, leaving their lives behind, looking for a place to rebuild, I would like my first words in this House to be in tribute to the hundreds of thousands of compatriots who also walked across our borders to flee from death, who crowded into the ports waiting for a boat to lead them to a new life; I would also like them to be in tribute to all the brother countries that welcomed them, helped them and allowed them to rebuild their lives with dignity in exile. Memory, ladies and gentlemen, is a condition of democracy. A country that forgets its own refugees today is allowed this shameful inaction, this selfishness complicit to those who today need our help. A dignified homeland is the one that gathers and repairs, it is a homeland that takes care of, welcomes and remembers. For decades our country has also seen hundreds of thousands of compatriots forced to leave their land to seek bread and work. These images of ports and stations are in the depths of our collective unconscious, and the history and memory of these families is told in these very hard journeys, in efforts and sacrifices in the streets of Buenos Aires, Zurich, New York, Caracas or Paris. Those compatriots broke their backs looking for the opportunities that a poor and broken country could not offer them, in the hope that their sons and daughters, grandchildren and grandchildren would never have to go through something like this. My generation, the grandchildren and grandchildren of these emigrants, the sons and daughters of transition and European integration, we grew in the conviction, in the collective purpose that these images were forever a thing of the past. My generation fulfilled its part of the social pact, brought the levels of training and capacity to the historical peaks of this country, took advantage of the public education system and all the opportunities given to it, worked out an image of what the future of this country might look like. My generation fulfilled its part of the social pact and today it feels cheated by those who represent it. After the 2008 crisis you broke our model of society on Germany's behalf, and between cuts, rescues and corruption scandals you dismantled our rights to make the citizens pay for a crisis that they had not caused. The result is that hundreds of thousands of young and not so young have had to leave their land to go and seek out the opportunities that are denied here. There is no family in this country that does not know what it is that a loved one has to go away, to go abroad, often without knowing the language, customs or legislation, to feel loneliness or uprooting, to be subjected to discrimination or exploitation at work, to spend hours talking by skype or looking for the cheapest flight to return home by Christmas, to strive to teach the language to children who have already been born out, to go through the bitterness and pain of losing a loved one and not being able to do anything, because one is out, far away and alone. Today our country has millions of compatriots expelled. Many of them were paid for education and training at the highest level in the world, and that is why universities in the United States and research centres in Germany and Japan are full of Spanish researchers. That is why a German Minister of Labour was able to say in 2011 that Spanish emigration was a stroke of luck, luck for them and shame for us. [[Applauds]] Universities are full, but also bars and kitchens, and today, unfortunately, Spanish is spoken in the scaffoldings of mid-Europe. In view of this reality, the Spanish public authorities should have had the absolute priority of facilitating their lives, helping them, accompanying them and putting in place all the means to enable them to return, if they so wish. Since 2011, however, the public authorities have forgotten them, invisibled them, abandoned them to their fate, and in the greatest indignity of all they have taken away their rights starting - what shame! - with the right to health care and ending with the most sacred right in a democracy, which is the right to vote. 4.7% is the participation of Spanish residents abroad in the last general elections. Since the government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the People's Party, Convergence and the PNV, approved the requested vote in 2011, participation in these processes has fallen to 85 %. This legislation has generated bureaucratic inferno made of insufficient deadlines, censuses that are closed retroactively and without prior notice, ballots that do not arrive or arrive late, conflicting or outdated institutional information, lack of means, staff, information in consulates and ministries, procedural and administrative errors, expenses that are not reimbursed despite the fact that the law establishes otherwise. Our compatriots have had to beg for the vote, ask for days off at work to travel to consulates that are often hundreds of kilometres from their home, complete fax procedures in countries where it is impossible to find one, and yet half of those who begged for the vote were unable to exercise their right. All this undoubtedly entails administrative responsibilities, but there is something much deeper and deeper. Voting is the most sacred right in a democracy. Having or not having the right to participate in common affairs that affect us all, having or not having the right to vote is the difference between being a citizen or being a subject. That is why the Spanish Constitution recognizes the right to vote and protects it as a fundamental right, and that is why article 68 states that the law will recognize and the State will facilitate the exercise of the right to vote by Spaniards who are outside the territory of Spain. You have failed to comply with the Constitution, and it is not enough to claim that this was a mistake, because in 2009 the Central Electoral Board had already warned of the consequences of any measure in this regard. So here there are only two options: either we are facing a colossal show of indifference, incapacity and ineptitude for the Public Service that has resulted in the violation of fundamental rights of millions of our compatriots, or we are - worse - facing an immense exercise of prevarication that has silenced the voice and snatched the basic rights of millions of our compatriots. Those who have legislated in this way, in either case, must give explanations and account at the seat of popular sovereignty, must explain the reasons that led them to take these disastrous measures. That is why we are asking this committee of inquiry today to know in Parliament what were the reasons and responsibilities that led to this unacceptable result. We ask this commission of inquiry to know first hand the experience and needs of our compatriots abroad, to study the characteristics of the new post-crisis emigration, and the responsibilities that derive for the public authorities. We ask this commission of inquiry to open the seat of popular sovereignty to those outside, to listen to them, to be able to participate in the public affairs that affect them and to make their voice heard. We request this commission of inquiry to listen and pay tribute to the young and not so young organized in an exemplary way in social movements such as the Granate Sea, Youth Without Future or the Two Million Votes platform, for being an example of struggle, resistance and civic virtue. We request this commission of inquiry to audit the functioning of our consular system, to understand what is failing and why, to gather the information necessary for its reform and for the modernization of our entire External Action Service. We request this commission of inquiry to prepare a new electoral law, committed to those who are outside and to study the creation of an external constituency, new mechanisms for the census and the possibility of electronic voting. [[Applauds]] I conclude, President. Since ancient times, the punishment of exile or exile has always been regarded as doubly cruel, because the obligation to leave the country combined the civil death of losing the voice, the political bond with the community, the ability to decide and intervene to change public life. Thanks to those who did not resign, thanks to those who mobilized to defend their rights, thanks to the civic virtue of those who refused to lose their voice, today we ask them to vote for the creation of this commission, and soon, sooner rather than later, we will have an electoral law in line with the democratic will of our people, and among all of us we will build a more just country, a decent country, a country that does not expel its people and a country to which it is worth returning. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u12	Thank you, Mr. Bustinduy. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning. I'll be brief. A commission of inquiry is requested on alleged irregularities, administrative errors and lack of means, which are said to hinder the voting of absent residents and to yield low participation rates. The fact is that, from the documentation provided by the applicants for the creation of a commission of inquiry, the most relevant factor appears to be the deadlines set out in Article 75 of the Loret, following its reform in 2011, for the dispatch and receipt of ballot papers which cause valid votes to be substantially lower than those requested. We must point out that this situation is structural and does not affect a specific electoral process, and that it was already taking place before the Loreg reform in 2011, although with somewhat less intensity. In short, it seems that the legally established time limits are not sufficient. It is also added that they are repeatedly breached by the competent authorities, although we believe that this complaint is generic. It is also added that there is a problem of updating the CERA, without specifying exactly what it refers to. The lack of due diligence on the part of the Government in fulfilling its obligations, namely not to provide the voter with the information necessary for the exercise of the right to vote, is also noted, which we consider to be a generic complaint. In particular, it is added that in the last elections there have been a number of complaints - it is not said of whom or how many, although it is alluded to on a platform - about the absence of an adequate information campaign by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is said that there is little staff, that is misinformed, that is poorly trained, without means and that makes an interpretation of the legal system sometimes inconsistent. Also, the hours of public service were scarce, except for the last few working days for voting, and it is also added that problems have been detected on the INE website and its telephone service; it is said exactly: they did not work properly, without specifying what was the proper way. And finally, it is also indicated that in some cases - without specifying in which cases - there has been a lack of full or partial reimbursement of the expenses incurred by voters abroad for the sending of their votes. Ultimately, a commission of inquiry is called for in relation to problems arising in their case from the regulation of the vote of absent residents, which affect in a non-uniform manner different electoral processes. And other circumstances that emerge are inconcrete, with those whose identity we do not know, and which seem to be represented by a supposed platform that this parliamentary group does not know. Finally, and in relative terms, we cannot ignore the significance that the committees of inquiry have had in our parliamentary history and the occasion that has given them. That is why we do not consider it appropriate to give our support to the creation of the proposed committee, but we do believe that the problems that have been raised could be dealt with properly in the existing committees, in particular in the Committee on Justice. In this they could appear and we could review the electoral procedure, in particular article 75 of the Loreg, give a hearing to those collectives who are considered injured, and solve the problems with a reform of article 75 of the Loreg. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u14	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Nogueras has the floor for the Catalan parliamentary group Democrácia i Llibertat.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u15	Thank you, President. We were talking last week about this unacceptable tone that has permeated Spanish politics, and I am not talking about populism and demagogy, which also, but specifically, failure. Politics fails, and if politics, in addition to failing, is slow, then the result is spurious. Citizens are increasingly moving away from what should be the most widely used tool. We will vote yes to the request made by Podemos, although I warn you that in addition to alleged irregularities and errors, the main problem is that very often these politicians do things wrong, very badly. It is very bad that at this point we not only do not have the Mediterranean corridor, but that we are being tried to sell the central corridor. Without a runner, there's no progress. Bad, very bad that, far from having a great competitive, creative and powerful country project, these governments have helped to make the country smaller without a project, without tools, without imagination and without creativity, failing again and we continue without progress. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u16	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u17	Bad, very bad brushing statues. Bad, very bad to take almost half of the laws and decrees passed in the Parliament of Catalonia to the Constitutional Court. There's no progress. Bad, very bad that one of these decrees is that of energy poverty. It is wrong to say that in Catalonia we cut in culture when two thirds of the cultural budget, two thirds, remain in the Community of Madrid and the rest of us have to divide this remaining third. Bad, very bad that the delegations that Catalonia has abroad are pointed out, questioned and banned, delegations that have given full support to the citizens when the Spanish institutions have again failed, delegations that all together cost half of what a single delegation costs, for example, in Morocco. But I'm getting to the point. Today it is proposed that the Commission be set up to solve a serious problem once and for all, that citizens should be considered very good at paying and not so good at voting. The citizens of Catalonia living abroad do not cease in their economic contribution, more than 566 million euros in 2013. They were unable to vote in the last 8,000 of these Catalan citizens' elections. The previous law was a bad law, it was an old law, as old is the Spanish policy in general, and it exhausts, it exhausts very much, as Catalonia has, a progressive project, a modern project of rigour and development in an absolutely static and slow framework. It is true that in 2011 it was proposed to reform this old law, as the partner of Podemos told us, and we voted in favour because we voted in favour of change. It is true that in the 2012 elections in Catalonia we realized that the inoperability of this law remained in evidence and we did not stand still, friends of Podemos. Do not be such demagogues to me because it was we who presented the proposal that called not only to amend the Organic Law on Electoral Regime and to amend article 75, but we also proposed the study of electronic voting systems. Do you know what the difference is between us and you? That I don't care to applaud you and you give grin or allergy to applaud us. And although many Members of Parliament here today always tend to defame Catalonia, lie and manipulate to, I suppose, win some vote, I will tell you the truth of Catalonia. We're not bad and we don't eat anyone, what we do is we work for our children to live in a better country, without meddling with anyone, simply implementing our country project, which is what we have. Criticize our project less and start working on yours. The Government of Catalonia - and I inform you that it is chaired by a convergent - will implement electronic voting to guarantee fundamental rights. We don't go at the same pace and nothing happens, as long as we can follow ours and we can't follow it. I spoke to them at the beginning of progress, evolution, modernization and development, nothing to do with what is here, but it is curiously what the Government of Catalonia offers me, I insist, presided over by a convergent. This Government will present the new telematics system in three months, as they already do in France, Switzerland, Norway, Canada or the United States. Can you imagine what we could do if we had a state in favor, a modern, innovative state, with a project, with proposals, a courageous state and a state that is? In Catalonia we have decided, and I do not say so, that is what the majority of the democratically elected Catalonian Parliament says, that we need this state in favour and that it is precisely in this efficient state, which we urgently need, in which we are working and converting Catalonia. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. Mr Tardà has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republicans have come to the rostrum to express our vote in favour of this request from the Joint Group and the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Group, as it seems to us necessary, urgent and even indispensable. I would like to remind the Nationalist and Independentist comrades of the Galego Nationalist Block, who for years were denouncing the ways of making crooked and fraudulents of the Galician government, presided over by Mr Fraga Iribarne, who rested in peace, who used censuses of Galician citizens residing in Buenos Aires - about 300 very, very long-lived people who came out of nowhere to go to vote every time there were elections in Galicia - that in the 2011 reform, which Convergence supported and agreed with the People's Party and the Socialist Party, the Republicans, of course, were not in the garlic, since when they struck each other, we always, always, ended up losing the same ones. After two years of work by a subcommission to achieve a profound reform of the Loreg, in the end everything was left in the water of drunkards, as always, I repeat, which agree with each other. Moreover, Mr Madina, a great deputy and good person, a fellow member of this Congress, when he aspired to be secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, acknowledged that the pact with the People's Party was a great mistake and introduced the requested vote, since the consequences have been disastrous. We have moved from traps, from the resurrection of the dead to killing, to drowning that which should foster a democratic and advanced State, which is the participation of its citizens when they reside abroad permanently or as passers-by. The results are evident: the fall in participation has been extraordinary. Percentages of 20% and 30% immediately fell to 3% and 5%; in fact, from a universe of 200,000 Catalans abroad in 2012, they were only able to access participation by 7%, so what is the meaning of civil society - the Catalan National Assembly or the International Federation of Catalan Entitats - having to be the catalyst for citizen participation. It is the responsibility of the State. In fact, always, always, the Catalans and the different citizens of the different nations of the current Spanish State we have to take the State to the expense, since we always have it against and all the progress is always in charge of the will of the citizenry. The Catalans of this have many examples, as do other citizens of different nationalities and nations of the current Spanish state. The series of stupidities, snorkels and wills to make it difficult for citizens to vote is enormous, such as the lack of unified criteria in consulates. In recent weeks, months and years, since today thanks to social networks it is possible to universalize all isolated cases and realize that they are not isolated, but that they are part of a systematic operation by the government, we have known all kinds of cases and variables. For example, when it is necessary to reach the time limit of one year for a citizen who is resident as a passenger in a foreign State to have access to the vote, in some consulates six months were required; not to mention difficulties in applying for the vote, delays in receiving electoral documentation, officials working by party slogans... I repeat that social media and publications in Catalonia have revealed cases of officials who, in the face of the September 27 elections, responded to people trying to carry out the process that was not plebiscite elections, that were autonomous elections and even some stupid official who was denounced dared to tell the person who went to his window that, of course, Catalonia was Spain. All of this is a real spurt and all of this is not random. Please see to what extent there is a political operation by the Spanish Government that has been reflected in the latest electoral disputes. 64% of the Catalan external vote is independent. This is normal. Why? Because it is young people who have moved abroad and young people who are most concerned about the future of their country. It is logical that they are people who are politically aligned in the independent or self-determinist theses. In the September 27 elections, among the few people who were finally able to vote - to do bingo and to exercise their right to vote - 64% of the votes were for the independence theses, only 5.8% for the People's Party, 6.9% for the Socialist Party, 9.7% for Citizens and 8.38 % for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that there is already a study which makes an extrapolation of what happened and of the votes that could not be materialized and which gives a dance by two Members of Parliament in Catalonia. I mean, nothing's free. The adversary always works from the ministry and has his terminals, which are the consulates and embassies, which operate not at the service of the citizens, but trying to cut them short. I repeat that there is a very long list of incidents - consulates in which faxes did not work, consulates in which the hours of service to the public were not respected, etc. - that should make politicians blush. All this may seem anecdotal, but it is not. In the last elections on 27 September, it became clear that we were playing all the votes, and in the same way that we all had an interest in having a large turnout, there was a desire from the Government that this would not happen. In addition, the Government of Catalonia requested the Central Electoral Board to extend the deadline so that it could be easier for the potential voter to carry out the vote. The Central Electoral Board rejected it; instead, it accepted it for the Spanish military, who, as you know, are deeply independent. Thus, the Central Electoral Board was sensitive to the demands of the military, but was not sensitive to the demands of Catalan citizens who from abroad tried to have conditions to be able to exercise the most fluid and likely to materialize. But the elections on 20 December came, and then the Spanish Government changed its position and obviously the Central Electoral Board said that the vote of the Spanish citizens had to be facilitated. As you know, the Spanish Government is very coherent and works for the benefit of all citizens. Whoever says otherwise, lies, as we normally lie to Republicans. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u20	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Hervías has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, although we from Citizens believe that the Committee of Inquiry is not the most agile, effective and rapid way of finding a solution to the real and existing problem of voting abroad, we believe that we must support it, because it is true that we must seek a joint, consensual solution so that all Spaniards who are residing abroad can exercise their right to vote. The requested vote was introduced in 2011 with a broad consensus of the political formations that existed in this House, where Convergència i Unió voted in favour; that is, although now it seems that he was not going with them, he was going with them. I just want to remind Mrs Nogueras that yes, we have a lot of things in Catalonia and as a Catalan I know him very well. Now, for having, we have no electoral law, and that which you have pulled out of the chest that there is a great management since Convergence, which now there are Junts for Yes and here Democracy and Freedom; it seems that that is why you have so many sieges for corruption you have had to change names continuously to try to disguise that you are not the ones who put your hand in public boxes. But, well, that's in the hands of Justice, and it will eventually decide. Mr Tardà, I would also like to remind you - since we are on the table - that here we are not debating whether the separatists vote or not; what we are discussing here is that everyone votes and everyone has the right to vote, whether separatist or not. It seems you're only interested that separatists can vote. I would worry that that electoral law that is missing in Catalonia would be developed by you, because perhaps you would only think that the separatists could have the majority and not those that we defend that Catalonia remains Spain, in those that we defend the coexistence and equality of all that, by the way, we are the majority, we win the elections, even though then they make those pacts to try to continue with more of the same. We will continue with the issue we are on, which is the problem that our compatriots living abroad cannot effectively exercise their right to vote. For example, more than 50% of citizens residing abroad who ask for the requested vote, who ask to be able to vote, then do not exercise it. Those of us who are in many electoral campaigns, those who are coordinating them, know this problem very well. In Citizens, for example, many emails came to us from people saying they didn't get their ballots, people saying they couldn't exercise that right at the embassy, they went to the embassy and they didn't give them any facility to vote. Therefore, there is a problem and I am convinced that it is not the Central Electoral Board, whose officials and workers are an example - I believe - in the effectiveness of electoral processes. Not as happens, for example, in Venezuela, gentlemen of Podemos, that country in which you so much like to look, that government which you so much like to follow and which you like to learn and advise, which seems that when there is a democratic result in the ballot box you do not like too much. This is what happens when some people lose most. What was the solution in 2011, when we had a low turnout and were going down? The petitioned vote was put on, the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the nationalist parties invented the petitioned vote, a further administrative hindrance that, instead of making it easier for people to freely exercise their right to vote, they had it a little more complicated. There are the data, it has already been said that the participation was below 5%. Really, it's a shame that that turnout is below that figure and then election day comes and we all call for people to vote, we call the polls, but for the next four years, what do we do? Nothing. This time I think we all have to get to work and find an effective solution to this problem. I'm finishing up. We currently have a legislature in which, for the moment, there is no government. If there is not, we will go to a new election; an election where, again, we will have the same problem; where, again, residents abroad will not be able to freely exercise their right to vote and we will have done absolutely nothing to solve it. Therefore, we are still in time to prevent that from happening in June, and that depends on the immobilism of the People's Party, which remains calmly settled; which have not even wanted to sit down for dialogue, to try to consensus a government and we are still waiting for that response to be felt. It seems that you are doing very well with that government in dysfunctions, rather than in functions, and instead of coming to listen and work some like to be having breakfast and reading the Mark rather than looking for solutions for all Spanish citizens. But I'm also going to talk about Podemos, which are more sensitive to the spotlights and the chairs. And for those social concerns that have so much, in seeking solutions, what they do is try to boost an agreement of more than two hundred reforms and, instead of seeking social policies, what they try to do is to have, for example, the CNI - the intelligence service that, of course, to help the most needy will do an excellent job - or the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior, where they will also do an excellent job for those social concerns that you have. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u23	Anyway, little by little the masks go down, the faces go down, and we find out what role each one wants to play. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of Podemos, we are in time for no new elections to take place and, therefore, we are in time for this legislature to resolve this problem of the plea vote and the problem of our compatriots all over the world, who cannot vote freely and cannot vote for the administrative obstacles and problems that exist in many parts of the country. I insist that the committee of inquiry is not the right, fastest and most effective formula for finding a solution to the problem we have with voting abroad. We will also support this proposal because it is clear that, among all of us, we must ensure that all citizens with the right to vote and that all our fellow citizens can vote freely, that they can do so freely and that they can always do so with all the facilities that we can give them. We shall therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Hervías. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mr Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this first speech, and perhaps the last one - at least in this Parliament, the only one - I would like to make it clear that I consider it a great honour. Organic Law 2/2011 amended the Organic Law of General Electoral Regime to introduce the petitioned vote of Spanish residents abroad, with the claim to avoid irregular or fraudulent practices in voting from abroad. Driven by the subcommission that was created in 2008 in Congress to study the reform, it deserved the positive judgment of the Council of State, from the perspective of ensuring the personality and the effectiveness of the vote in its report of 24 February 2009, although it warned about the operationality of this system because of the difficulties that the Electoral Administration might have in developing its role. The Council's warning was clear and, unfortunately, the immediate effect was the sharp drop in the participation of Spanish and Spanish abroad, from 30% in 2008, to just 5% in 2011 and 2016. In view of this situation, the request of the proposing groups is aimed at setting up a commission of inquiry, primarily to study this process in depth and to propose solutions aimed at reformulating the Electoral Law so that foreigners are fully guaranteed their exercise of the right to vote and thus the realization of the fundamental right to political participation and the same voting system. These objectives are obviously shared by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. However, we believe that a non-permanent committee of study in accordance with Article 53 of our Rules of Procedure would have been more appropriate and more appropriate or would have been able to bring these objectives back to a non-permanent committee on a broader reform of organic law. As honourable Members are well aware, the committees of inquiry have been set up in parliamentary practice as an instrument whose objective is not only to collect and deal politically with the necessary information on a matter or a problem of public interest, but also to some extent involves the intention to serve so that Parliament can carry out the requirement of some kind of responsibility, where there are indications that this is justified at the time of its creation. We believe that neither the justification for the proposal nor the general knowledge that we have of the issue, nor the political responsibilities that must be borne in mind, seem to be apparent, since the origin of the problem lies in the legal reform of 2011, in the multiplicity of actors involved in the electoral process and in the difficulties of certification and operation of postal services, especially in certain countries. In order to assess the correctness of this matter, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to consider that, from the mandate of Law 40/2006, of the status of Spanish citizenship abroad, the subcommission that was created in 2008, included in its conclusions the amendment of article 75 of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, establishing a consular procedure, at the request of the voter. It understood that this was a form of rational management that was justified as a way of avoiding fraud. It is very significant in this particular respect that this solution was not the subject of a particular vote by any parliamentary group, nor was it the subject of amendments during the next legislative proposal. But even if the intention of all those involved was to give greater guarantees to the external vote, the reality is that the reduction in the electoral participation of Spanish women and Spanish women residing outside our borders was immediately demonstrated. The representatives of Spanish citizens abroad requested the amendment of the Organic Law, in order to correct, in order to improve the voting conditions of this group that makes possible the increase of participation. Thus, the Socialist Parliamentary Group immediately assumed this need, and from May 2012 to date, it has been presenting initiatives with the same objective. On 3 May of that year, he submitted a non-law proposal to remove the requirement of the requested vote and subsequently, on 1 October of the same year, submitted a law proposal for the same purpose. Later, on July 23, 2015, we presented a non-law proposal, on the reform of the electoral system, which included, in addition to the suppression of the requested vote, the promotion of electronic means of voting. Precisely, on the first day of this same legislature, as you will recall, we have resubmitted the proposal for an organic law to reform the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, with the expectation of abolishing the system of voting requested, but, as the request put forward, there are other procedural problems arising mainly from the voting by mail that have hindered the right to vote of the Spaniards who were abroad on the date of the elections. That is why we also believe that this situation needs to be addressed, that we need to study what these problems are and that we need to find more effective solutions, and that is why we are also announcing the Socialist Group's vote in favour of this initiative. Let us be clear, let us be clear with the situation we are living in. The most important thing at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, is that if there is no government before 3 May, neither the Commission, whether it be research or study, nor the Socialist Group's proposed law to abolish the requested vote will serve any purpose; they will not be effective. The result will be that the same problems that the initiative raises will surely be replicated in the upcoming elections and will remain in the most complete uncertainty what can subsequently be done about this. Therefore, the authors of the initiative should reflect and consider constructively the effectiveness of opening the way now for the formation of a government of change, which, as in so many others, could easily reach agreements and begin to develop them as soon as next week. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the capacity for dialogue and agreement between the forces of change on specific issues has already been sufficiently demonstrated in these few months of parliamentary term both in plenary and in the Commission. And if that is so, I wonder what is preventing a more general and cross-cutting agreement between the political formations of change, which paves the way for the Government of progress, above all for the shared, which is a lot, to resolve and deal with everything that our country needs to solve and which citizens demand? Where have the so-called new policy and the failure of the division between right and left been left so as to achieve shared goals of progress? Where are the people called to meet people's needs? Where will the heartfelt demand expressed in this rostrum a few minutes ago by Mr Bustinduy, whose background we can share, though not the rhetoric that surrounds it? It will probably be drowned in an electoral and cyclical calculation, gentlemen of Podemos and its confluences - you will know - a calculation, by the way, that is not exempt from great risks, even for you, among those who are not precisely the least who objectively open up the way - I stress the objective - to continue to govern the People's Party with its policies of recessionary austerity and cuts in social benefits, rights and freedoms. I don't think that's what they asked for, what their constituents wanted. I don't think so, honestly. To invoke barriers of principle or ideological blocs is a very poor excuse to redouble the electoral drum that is already ringing, because in the face of the pluralism really existing and decided by the citizenry in its parliamentary reflection, we have an obligation to improve our disposition to the possible dialogue, to the encounter, to make transactions, to make transfers that benefit everyone seeking the common good and leaving aside dogmatic rigidities. This attitude is not synonymous, much less, with betraying principles, but with opening the way for those who structure and frame the social and democratic rule of law, so mistreated by the politics of the People's Party in the previous legislature and so invoked by you in this one, to continue to take place after the long and severe parenthesis of the past four years. Thank you for your attention, especially to those who have followed my speech, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chamber. Mr García Hernández has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u27	Thank you, President. It is a surprise, a surprise, to say that we want to defend democracy and dress up in the worst of anti-democratic clothing. I will give you an invitation, ladies and gentlemen: it is time to accept a responsibility, it is time to leave behind how well you live against the People's Party. Accept your responsibility, because that is one of the most undemocratic behaviors seen in this House: to make policy against 7,300,000 people. It is high time to recognize that no matter how big their cravings for power can rule against the majority of Spaniards. Therefore, when you want to talk about democracy and democratic behaviour or about ensuring the value of votes, look in the mirror and see how small you become with your own inconsistencies. [[A Member of Parliament: Good!]] Think now of arguments to justify from now on why you have decided to curtail the rights of a majority, the one who won the elections. [[Applauds]] We all know that democracy is much more than votes, it is the rule of law, but it is based above all on citizens' right to vote. That is why we are going to admit as a failure that citizens who want to exercise that right for any inconvenience will not be able to do so. That is why we must carry out all the actions that are in our hands, to correct deficiencies and see where the failures are, to eradicate them. But that - and this is an invitation for all - must be a consensus action, because everything that affects fundamental laws and rules in democracy must be done from the consensus. That is why this reform of the electoral law was voted during the government of Zapatero 340 of the 348 deputies of this House. That's where the consensus was. We remember this because it was introduced, like the 2011 reform, because it was seen as an obvious improvement, after a long process of study and dialogue, as it has been brought up here, from the subcommission and, above all, in order to adapt it to something that is already covered by the law and that none of them stated here, that the requested vote works for the municipal elections. The ultimate aim has therefore been to provide greater legal certainty to the vote and to curtail the possibilities of fraud that existed. Nor has anyone in his speeches noted that he has much more difficulty in voting for a Spaniard who moves from his constituency, according to articles 72 and 73 of the Loreg, than someone who lives abroad. That is why we will join this initiative. But our support is not a blank cheque, because we believe that this Commission presents good things and other things that need to be explained. We will be very vigilant, we will be sensitive to protecting citizens' rights, such as the right to data protection or the right to legal certainty of votes cast. Therefore, we manifest that spirit of working together. I will express to you my specific reticences, which range from the most general to the most particular policy. We all have to recognize the Group We can be artists. They have found the philosophical stone in this world of globalization, of technical complexity, they have found the narrative. That narrative abounds in two coordinates: the complexity of this world, a world in which the citizen is alone faced with all that complexity, and, above all, the struggle of the powerful against the weak. Yes, Mr. Churches, yesterday you repeated it again because it is true that you repeat much. That's why you come here quoting Cervantes, to undo the tantrums, but the only thing that undoes tantrums and that doesn't make us doubt anyone is the rule of law. That is why we will be here, because the world is not of fiction, the world is of reality and we have to fit everyone in that world, not only the pure, but also the humans with our human imperfections. [[Applauds]] The law is the one that makes us all the same and that is why we will defend the law. That's part of his narrative. It looks like Milton's poem: Once we get rid of the evil of the world, the corrupt acolytes will enjoy paradise again. What happens is that to enjoy your paradise the price we have to pay is our freedom and there will be none of us. [[Applauds]] Moreover, with all the political intelligence that surrounds him and with all the media that support them, they disguise themselves as ridiculous paternalism saying that they do everything for our sake. We are elderly, let us choose our good, as we have done 7,300,000 people. [[Applauds]] That is why they have learned from all their revolutionary failures and the socialism of the twenty-first century presents in small homeopathic doses the erosion of the system. It seems the best of Agatha Christie's metaphors about murder: the victim can say little; the killer goes in his nature, like the scorpion, but needs the necessary co-operator, which is now called the useful fool, so that this whole system can move forward and it is a day too late, as Bertholt Brecht said. Today we have this laudable initiative disguised as - in quotes - alleged irregularities, administrative errors and lack of means for us to vote in favour - what we will do - but again there are doubts, because in this democratic age how difficult it will be to vote for people - a new concept that replaces you as a citizen or as a person. Is it not again for these perverse gentlemen, including the modest officials, to curtail the rights of others? There's no one who believes that anymore. That is why we suspect that a media commission, as in other regimes, ends up being a committee on people. [[Applauds]] And as the only way I know how to resist temptation is to fall into it, I'll talk a little bit about Venezuela and the famous Maisanta list. The other day Mr Xuclà referred to her in the Commission, echoing the anecdote of Mr Anasagasti, who had dual nationality, Venezuelan and Spanish. Going to a market one day, he bought a CD at market price with this famous list Maisanta. To his surprise, when he put it on the computer, he saw the record of when he voted and what he voted in Venezuela. To chill! When did that happen? On the occasion of the revocation. That is why I say to Mr Sánchez that, before he copies the presidential model, he realizes that we are in a parliamentary model before the cake reaches unsuspected limits. What we need to be clear is that this Committee of Inquiry cannot be used to bring the Maisanta list to Spain and that is where the People's Party will be and I hope that many of you will be. [[Applauds]] Here are many questions that I would like to put on the table. Why a commission of inquiry, which always seeks a political leader, not a non-permanent commission or a study commission to look for means, see where the failures are and arbitrate solutions? The Central Electoral Board itself has already responded to the United Left's question of why it was failing this system and said it very clearly: the deadlines of the law - therefore, something can be changed in the law - and above all foreign postal systems. It is certainly not we who have advised Venezuela in any case on how to maintain or vote. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u29	That's why I'm going back to the subject of narrative. For you it is very easy to see that PP is guilty of everything while others are not responsible for anything. Are we going to have democratic height or are we not going to have it? We are not responsible for how the system worked in Venezuela or for the mail strike in Finland and Peru. Therefore, among all those functions and those seven points that you detail, some cause us much resquemor. You want to investigate why people don't vote and that's an exercise of freedom. I don't want the Maisanta list to appear in Spain. You talk about calling in associations of affected people - and the Joint Group's partner said - to the grenade tides, but at least in Ávila the grenade is obtained by mixing red and purple. I hope people know that the associations that must come here must be neutral and representative - because there was no more or there were enough complaints to the Central Electoral Board in the last elections but not more than eighty - and, above all, that in a system of law the resources work, which is where we have to be. That is why we are going to arbitrate a legal certainty, which cannot be a restriction on a right but its own guarantee; that is why I tell you that I know that in the committee of inquiry what you will seek will always be a culprit and, being there the PP, you will make it very short. Using their own report, I would like to tell you that in Spain people are not obliged to vote, but to register in the census, as Article 32 says, and that in the last elections Andalusian voted 66% of the people who asked for the vote, of course much more participation than in the consultation of Podemos on its bases on the PSOE-Citizens pact, which was 37%, and yet I have not heard them ask for a commission of inquiry on this matter. [[Applauds]] But, of course, a commission of inquiry in his party might shake more than one, and given yesterday's loss of faith in his leader's primaries, it's no wonder that everything that sounds like democracy doesn't accept it that way. Even so, I reiterate to you once again our affirmative vote, never a blank cheque, never a participation in the search for a culprit but a solution. We will be there, but the truth is that everything seems to indicate that the only ones we will be looking for will be those of consensus, the others will again teach us the famous clock with their famous tick-tac. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u30	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the last item on the agenda, on the proposals for the creation of subcommittees, in particular the proposal from the Committee on Employment and Social Security, for the creation of a subcommittee to study practical improvements, follow-up and proposals for measures for employment among the under 30s. As has been customary in this matter of creating subcommissions, I ask you whether it can be understood to be approved by assent. [[Consent]] That proposal was adopted. I must also ask whether any group wants to speak at the explanations of vote. [[Denials]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u32	We shall put to the vote the proposal put forward by the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea y Mixto Parliamentary Groups for the creation of a commission of inquiry concerning the alleged irregularities, administrative errors or lack of means made available to Spanish citizens residing abroad to exercise their right to vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 312 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-20-CD160420.u33	It's approved. [[Applauds]] I inform the members of the Permanent Chamber that we will convene it at eleven minus four in the Constitutional Chamber to proceed with its constitution. The meeting rose. It was ten and twenty minutes in the morning.
