ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that, at this moment, a delegation of the institutions of the Valencian Community, chaired by its President, is accompanying us in the guest gallery, first of all, to whom I would like to welcome. We are also accompanied by a delegation from the Members of the German Bundestag, made up of the members of the Group of Friends with Spain. I would like to express to all of you, on behalf of the House, our warmest welcome and send you an affectionate greeting. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u2	We shall begin with the first item on the agenda, concerning the debate on the whole of the proposal for the reform of the first additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Valencian Courts, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal, and whom I also welcome on behalf of the whole House. [[Applauds]] For the presentation of this initiative, Mr Ferri Fayos has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. President of the Generalitat, Mrs. Vice President, members of the Council, companies and companies of Les Corts, as they know I go up here on behalf of the Valencian Corts to defend the reform of our Statute again, and to demand fair investments for Valencians and Valencians. It is the third time that the members of these Corts have come to Madrid to raise this issue, and if I may have thought about it, it is possible that, as Members of another Parliament, some of us who have come here today have spoken more often in this rostrum than some members of this House who have held various legislatures. Go ahead that Compromís will come whenever it takes to demand what we believe to be common sense: that discrimination against Valencians and Valencians be brought to an end, and that we be left to treat once and for all as second-class citizens. As I was telling you, this is the third time I have intervened in this Congress to defend a proposal that has been made since 2011. Since that year the proposal wandered through the offices because the People's Party was not interested in a debate until 2015, political change arrived on our land and this reform was reactivated. In September of that same year we came to defend it for the first time. They will remember that on that occasion we could not count on the presence of the president of the government Mariano Rajoy, who preferred a refreshment in the bar Manolo to listen to the representatives of the Valencian people. There were elections and with the new legislature we were called back. In April 2016 new legislature, new deputies and deputies, new parliamentary groups, but the same absences. Mr Rajoy, as he told Mr Baldoví about funding reform, had other priorities. When it comes to talking about how to improve the lives of Valencians and Valencians, there are always other priorities. Today I thought that the third would be the one that would be won, but unfortunately that chair there again symbolizes what matters to the problems of the Valencians to Mariano Rajoy. It's a shame, because I wanted to move some questions that have come up to the Valencians in the last few months. For example, we wonder why the Ministry of Development attacks the coastal train, which includes the much needed Gandía-Denia and would serve half a million people saying it would not be profitable. We wonder if they were doing those studies before building the lines and stations of the AVE - which today are real ghost stations - or if they only have to be done when it comes to lowering the investments of the Valencians. We wonder how long users of proximity between Valencia and Castellón will have to support a third world service. We wonder how long these citizens will have to endure delays and stops. We wonder why the last investment agreement between the People's Party and Citizens includes a date for the completion or operation of the AVE in Galicia, and does not schedule the Mediterranean corridor of goods with double platform. We wonder if the citizens of the Alacant area do not deserve electrified proximity. We wonder when investments in Xàtiva-Alcoy, Castelló-Vinaroz and Valencia-Buñol. We wonder why the central government has not sent Brussels the need to bury the roads as it passes through Valencia, and build the passing tunnel and end once and for all with the bottleneck, a need already agreed in 2003. We wonder why Vigo, Madrid, Barcelona and Murcia do have these works in progress and are not even in Valencia if they are expected. We wonder why the EUR 40 million needed to modernise the line that connects the Mediterranean with the Cantabrian through Zaragoza is not invested; 40 million, ladies and gentlemen, is equivalent to just 2 kilometres of AVE. We finally wonder what the Government of Mariano Rajoy has done for the Valencians in its four years of absolute majority; what it has done. In recent months, a very tricky speech has been repeated, according to which everything can be justified by the absence of Government. Why don't we have a new funding system? Ah, it's just that we have a government in place. Why don't we have more investments? Because, of course, a government that is in office and without a budget... The trap is to make us believe that we have to invest in a government, which is - as long as it is right-wing, of course - because the lack of government is the cause of our discrimination. Who believes that lie? How many years has the Government of Spain been in office? Twenty years, thirty years? What is clear is that the Rajoy Government as far as the rights of Valencians and Valencians are concerned has been in operation since the same day that La Moncloa stepped on. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to defend this reform because we know that the problem of discrimination against Valencians is coming from far away. We come with a reform of the Statute because experience has shown us that governments pass, that presidents pass, but discrimination remains. We hope that today's vote in favour of this proposal will be shown in facts, in investments and in concrete measures. We come ultimately because we believe and maintain that the Valencians deserve to live better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u4	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr. Mata Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. President, Vice-President, members of the Government valencià, companies and companies, it is indeed the third time that we have appeared in this House, the first time in an agonizing legislature, reflecting in the presence of your ladies and gentlemen, and when we were very few who were aware of this problem. The second was an expectant legislature, so there was a lot of intrigue out there, and therefore we did not have the heat we have today, and in this intriguing legislature we do have the presence of most of its lords, which helps us very strongly in trying to move what is happening in our land, because it gives us the feeling that you see Valencia, the Valencian Community, the Valencian country, but you do not look at it, you do not understand it, that you sometimes hear us but you do not listen to us, because between yesterday, a regrettable yesterday in which we moved an image of petulants, of excesses, of people who had all the great events, which was dedicated to being an attraction and a pole of development in the whole of Spain, neither is the image of a today in which it seems that it is a nest of corrupts, in which the police do nothing but investigate behaviors, and that in the benches of the courts are sitting former leaders of the People's Party. But the truth is that there have been twenty years of a political regime that has led us to a frankly distressing situation, and that is why we will come here as many times as we can to explain to them who we are. We, after a twenty-year rule of the People's Party, each Valencian or Valencian owed 600 euros: today it owes 9,000 euros. After twenty years of People's Party governments, Spain's third and fourth savings boxes have disappeared. We have almost 25% of poverty and people who are socially excluded. There are 300,000 people expelled from the middle class. We, ladies and gentlemen, live in a land where we are now 13 per capita income points above the national average, and we live in a land which is the community whose average salary has fallen more than 3 times below the national average. We've been impoverished. We've been impoverished for a long time. As President Puig likes to say, Spain works because the autonomous communities carry Spanish and Spanish on their shoulders. When a Spaniard or a Spanish woman gets up every morning, he takes a bus that has no funding or contract-program of this autonomous community; then he moves to public schools that do not have state government support for its construction, we lower the ratio, we can already extend the health card to people who did not have it, but we do not have help to deal with this. We, ladies and gentlemen, are convinced that the path we have undertaken makes thousands of people no longer co-opt in the day residences; thousands of people who see their dependency files processed; thousands of students who are already going to be twenty in class and are not going to be thirty. We are on the right track, but we need what the previous speaker has said: that coastal train, that urgent communication with Catalonia. How is it possible that for political reasons a communication between Catalonia, Barcelona and Valencia has been punished that makes it easier to go to Madrid, to take an AVE and then to Barcelona, before going to Barcelona directly? That kind of infrastructure is what we come to claim today, because we cannot settle for what a government does, which, as a feudal lord, is distributing pieces of FLA in exchange for the tithe that the Valencians pay it. Our mission, ladies and gentlemen, is to know whether this Congress is willing to help people and people, who are every day a ruler of an autonomous community has to look into their eyes, or are going to stop their future, because here they pass laws that make people work in one place and fire them at night and the next day they hire them again. You make laws that protest may be a reason to go to jail. You make laws and laws and laws and laws and the autonomous communities take care of people, people, people and people. And when we look back and we have a relative with alzheimer, we go to a town hall and we go to the Generalitat window. Our whole life has to do with the autonomous state and that has to be understood, ladies and gentlemen, in this House. We Valencians weren't on our way or the Valencians were asleep. The Valencians are waking up: awakening from a horrible nightmare. And if I may, ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over to the president a book that was presented yesterday in Valencia, which is called The Valencian Awakening, by a great journalist, Victor Maceda, which explains how these twenty years of terror and this last year and a half of hope have been. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u6	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Bonig Trigueros.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President of the Generalitat, many excellent President of Les Corts, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first time to speak here, in the Congress of Deputies, on behalf of a great land which is the Valencian Community, no matter how much some are committed to destroying it every day, and on behalf of the majority party in the Valencian Community, which is the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a privilege for me to defend in this House the adoption of the proposed law on the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community; a reform which should be indicated that it was promoted by the People's Party, which had the consensus and support of all groups, and which formulated in writing what is a right, a right of the Valencians, because we are not even talking about a historical claim or a question of political will; we are talking about a question of justice for the Valencians. Because the Valencians don't come here to cry, the Valencians come here to ask for the same resources as the rest of the Spaniards. It is others who make permanent confrontation and victimism their sign of identity, perhaps because behind that victimism and that crying there is no project, there is no future, and especially because they hide their harmful lack of management. And it is that in politics, ladies and gentlemen, it has been wept and learned, and who continually appeals to the past and victimism is unable to manage the present, and above all - the most important and most exciting in politics - to project the future. The Valencians demand equality among all Spaniards, equal opportunities among all communities. We ask that the principle of equality recognized by our Spanish Constitution be made material also in the investments that the State allocates to the autonomous communities, and we believe that the time has come when the Valencians have total legitimacy and absolute legitimacy to put an end to the discrimination that we have experienced; a discrimination, ladies and gentlemen - that nobody deceives them - which has two very defined, very clear variables: there is a date and there is a responsible one. The date, July 15, 2009; the responsible, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which approved a model of harmful and perverse financing for the Valencian Community; a system voted, approved and applauded by those who come to this House today to say and to tear their clothes for the under-financing suffered by the Valencian Community. [[Applauds]] But it is not only in the area of under-financing; there are also problems in investments, and that is why the Valencian Community is demanding investments in key projects, as the Spanish Government does in the Mediterranean corridor. And I will allow the president to make reference to when she was Minister of Development, and how the third lane of the Mediterranean Corridor, which designed a People's Party Government, was supported by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days we will celebrate October 9th; a day when the Valencians commemorate our essence as a people, our self-government and our institutions. The Valencian Community is clear: it is fundamental for Spain, as Spain is fundamental for the Valencian Community; it is an indivisible binomial. Let me read you a phrase from Luis Lucia, the founder of the Valencian Regional Right: No patriotism more tested than the patriotism of the Valencians; if there is a region in Spain that because of the richness of its soils can become the illusion that it is enough for itself, that region is the Valencian region, and without clutch in Valencia have never had room for separatist madness. No, because the Valencians are clear; it is others who seek to reopen old identity debates in order to weaken us, whose only background is a great complex of inferiority that has always dragged the Valencian left, and an existing feeling, but camouflaged and hidden, of wanting to be part of what Joan Fuster called the Catalan countries, and that they do not exist, have not existed and will never exist. [[Applauds]] Because the Valencian Community - I finish, ladies and gentlemen - knows exactly what it wants, where it is; we know where we want to go, with absolute loyalty in defending the constitutional and statutory frameworks. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this absolute loyalty can never end up leading to less investment and less funding; otherwise we would be giving wings to those who from radical and nationalist positions only want direct confrontation with the Spanish Government. There, ladies and gentlemen, you will never find the People's Party of the Valencian Community. The People's Party of the Valencian Community will find it here, defending where it belongs and in the way it corresponds what is right for our land, which in twenty years has gone from oblivion to great transformation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u8	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda, to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, Mr President of Les Corts, Mr Vice-President, Valencian delegation - in spite of - Members, Mr Minister, it was good for you to have a debate on the Valencians, because you are present for Alacant and, therefore, it was good for you to have a debate on the Valencians. One point. Valencia actually went from oblivion to transformation: from 2.5 billion debt to 42,000, thanks to the People's Party, Mrs Bonig, thanks to the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Great transformation! People's Party. Look, the Valencians have an expression to define what Mrs. Bonig has done: which bar, which bar, which little shame!, what shame, what shame! [[Applauds]] I remember the words Jaume I uttered in the battle of Portopi: Shame, gentlemen, shame! Shame, gentlemen, shame, shame! The reform of the Valencian Statute comes here five and a half years late, five and a half years in which we have not been able to approve it. They have had an absolute majority here, they have had an absolute majority there, they have had an absolute majority in the parliaments - in Valencia, in Castellón, in Alicante - and they have done nothing, nothing. [[Applauds]] Do you know what they'd rather talk about here? Do you know what we're arguing about here? Well, the dicks at the end of the King's Cup. That's what we discussed, Mrs. Bonig. It was very important to the Valencians! That's what we discussed. This has not been discussed here: four times it was delayed - and you were a counselor, a counselor -, four times it was delayed and sometimes with such a pilgrim argument that they had not had time to appoint representatives. Not what happened yesterday. You, who are so critical of the Botanical Government, made a full yesterday for you to come; that you could have done, you did not, and that is why this is the third time we have discussed it here and the sixth time that the reform of the Valencian Statute comes here. For God's sake! For God's sake! It's just the shame... Do you know how much it took for this not to be approved here and not to be carried out? And it's not said by a moderate person like me, no, it's said by the radicals and extremists of the Chamber of Contractors of the Valencian Community. In the years when you were a councillor, in the years when the PP had an absolute majority, the Chamber of Contractors of the Valencian Community - radicals and extremists like you - says that the Valencian Community stopped receiving 1,679 million. Because of you, because of your great fault, Mrs. Bonig. You were an infrastructure advisor and you didn't do anything. Nothing! What we are going to approve here today is a thing of common sense, reasonable, moderate, and that investments in the general budgets of the state have to do with the population weight. Perfect, absolutely elementary, just, reasonable... But the General Budgets of the State arrived and that was no longer reasonable or fair. In the four years that he ruled the PP corresponded to us the five and peak instead of the 11; the 6, the 7, the 8; always from behind, Mrs Bonig, and then you put the flag that defends the Valencian interests. What a way to defend Valencian interests. Notice, 2016 budgets, investments in Valencian territory: 879 million, 8%, and we had 1,216, which means 316 million less. What do we tell the Chamber of Contractors? What do we tell all the schools that couldn't be done, Mrs. Bonig? Because of him, because of his great fault. There were years when every Valencian lost 150 euros in investment. Mrs. Bonig laughs, but I'd start crying. I would start to cry because, because of their lack of performance, the Valencians have lost a lot, a lot, and then you say that you defend the Valencian interests. The Valencians lost 400 million euros each year in investments and the Infrastructure Advisor kept quiet, said nothing. Nothing! Because of his fault, because of his great fault we do not have the public transport contract-program in Valencia as Madrid and Barcelona have it. What have you done in these four years to have the contract-program? Nothing! Not a bad amendment to the General State Budgets! Nothing! What have you done - as the Valencian entrepreneurs claim - on the Teruel-Sagunto-Zaragoza line? What have you done? Nothing. And it's worth four hard ones, and on top of that they have the face of trying to tell our Generalitat now that we co-finance it, when it's a state competition. What a face! What a face! While the Royal Theatre received 9 million euros, the Liceu 7 or Master 1.5, the Theatre of Les Arts received half a million, and you kept quiet, you said nothing. Nothing! Today, in Brussels, Mr Margallo, we are talking about the Valencian tunnel. France has done its duties and included it in the European Forum of the Mediterranean Corridor, has done its duties and includes Marseille and Lyon; Italy includes Turin, and the PP government forgets Valencia. Nothing! And you have the face to come here to want to teach lessons? What are you going to teach us about? Of what? What are you teaching us about? [[Mr Hernando Fraile asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u10	One moment, please, one moment. Your Honor, if you wish to intervene, I will give you the floor at the end of Mr Baldoví. Go on, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u11	Take my time off. In my opinion, and that of many, the PP has been a plague for the Valencians. You've been... [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: On the subject! To the point!]] Can I talk? [[Rumors.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: To the question!]] I'm talking... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baldoví, Mr Hernando, please, I beg you all to remain silent, and when Mr Baldoví has finished his speech, that he has one minute, twenty-four seconds left, from there...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u13	No, I had two minutes left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u14	Mr Baldoví, you know that the Presidency is always very flexible with the times and do not worry because of that minute and five seconds that you have now I will adjust the time. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u15	And I will return with all cordiality, Madam President. Thank you so much. Before yesterday, Mrs Bonig said - I am talking about infrastructure, Mr Hernando - that above the Mediterranean corridor is the unity of Spain. She was so upset and so satisfied. The unity of Spain is the unity of all citizens, of all citizens. If we are 12% poorer and we pay more to other richer communities, we have to work to ensure that in the State General Budgets, this has been brought here today, that in the budgets investments are brought closer to the population, and that is what has not been done. Mrs Bonig, we Valencians do not eat of your grandiose words and your speeches - I will admit - but hollow. The Mediterranean corridor, an infrastructure that could not be done because this has not been approved, would give Ford competitiveness. A car with the Mediterranean corridor made would be in Germany 400 euros cheaper than now. That's talking about the Valencian bread, that's talking about money. Our oranges would be more competitive, our Vinalopó marble, our ceramics, our tourism and our surroundings in Castelló. From this we eat the Valencians, to have infrastructures that make our companies and our agriculture competitive. I'm finishing up. Mrs Bonig, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are now going to vote on a proposal from the Valencian Parliament which says that the public's relation to investment is applied in the next General State Budgets. The Valencians are 11% and we have never reached 11%. I hope that if you vote in favour of all those who are going to vote in favour today, you will apply it. If you want to be helpful to the Valencians, now that we already know for sure that Mr Rajoy is going to be president again when some manager becomes clear whether it is going to be now or if it is going to be in three months, fight with his party and with his president to apply this in the next General Budgets of the State. I've got ten seconds left. They are fighting for real amendments to the next General State Budgets. They fight for the application of a funding model that does not punish us and in this way they will honor the words that Jaume I put in his will: 'Love and protect all people and the people;' - we do not talk about the people with impunity -'make justice reign and veto so that the great ones do not oppress the small ones'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u17	Madam President, pursuant to Rule 71.3, I have repeatedly asked you to refer Mr Baldoví to the agenda, and Mr Baldoví has made a very clear question mark to Mrs Bonig, which is not on the agenda. I understand that Mr Baldoví wants to move the debate here from another House, but this was not the question of the agenda and I therefore call on him to defend, on behalf of my group, Mrs Bonig. [[Rumors.-Applause.- Mr Baldoví Roda asks for the floor.]] Do you give it to me or don't you give it to me?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u18	Yes, one second, Your Honor. Mr. Hernando, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u19	Mr. Baldoví, you have confused this afternoon's shift, I insist. It has had the lack of decorum to make a reference against a member of a House who is not this in question, which demonstrates his talent and, in my opinion, his lowness. [[Rumors]] Those who are aware of what the PP government has done for the Valencian Community are the Valencians, who have once again given us victory and you have defeated him. [[Applauds]] These are the Valencians. Therefore, more respect for people who come from other Chambers to make defenses and shifts such as that made by Mrs Bonig today and like all Commissioners, to whom we always respect. [[Rumors]] Mr Baldoví, it seems a lie that you, as you have been in this House for a long time, are making speeches on this subject and diverting the issue... [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mrs Errejón Galván and Baldoví Roda ask for the word]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u20	Mr. Hernando, ladies and gentlemen, one second, please. Take a seat, everybody. One second. [[The Lord]] Have a seat, please, Your Honor. I shall give the floor first to Mr Baldoví. [[Protests.-Mr Errejón Galván: I just want to ask a question, Madam President.]] Your Honor, please. Your Honor, the round of allusions is given by the Madam President. [[Rumors.-Mr Errejón Galván: But I have a question, Madam President.-Protests]] Mr Errejón, I will give you the floor, but the Presidency will give it to you. I give the floor to Mr Baldoví, and I ask you, please, to be brief in your presentations.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u21	I'll take exactly half of what Mr. Hernando took, for sure. The first day I was here, a former socialist president, in my first speech, told me a phrase that I will never forget: corruption is not cured with votes. It is my third intervention on this subject - the fourth, because the first one we were unable to vote on - and in none of the previous ones I have made such a heated intervention as today, I recognize it, but I know that I have done so because the spokesman sent by the Valencian Parliament, Mrs Bonig, within ten seconds of starting her intervention was already saying that our Government, a government as legitimate as yours, was destroying the country. And I can't stand it, I can't stand it. [[Protests]] Mr. Hernando, I recommend you with...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u22	Your Honor, I will give you the floor again, but the allusion shift is to mention concrete allusion and it is not a speaking turn; it is simply to mention allusion. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u23	Mr Hernando, with all the cordiality of the world I would ask you to read the 'Diary of Sessions' with Mrs Bonig's intervention. It may then explain why I have made this speech, of which I obviously do not regret.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have done on other occasions, I would remind you that the Article of the Rules of Procedure should be mentioned and, in the case of references, specific mention should be made of the reference in question. Mr Errejón, you have the floor. Article?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u25	Thank you, Madam President. My question was about the attribution you made, under article 73, with respect to allusions. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: That's not]] I'm on the floor. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: That's not the article]] I'm on the floor. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: That's not the article]] I'm on the floor. Madam President, the spokesman and the Members of the People's Group are used to constantly interrupting, violating the Rules of Procedure of the House, alluding... [[Mr Hernando Fraile, pointing out the Rules of Procedure: It is Rule 71.3.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u26	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u27	Madam President, what I have heard has been the intervention of the various rapporteurs and, in this case, the intervention of the rapporteur of the People's Party, representative of the Valencian Corts, has been a series of allusions of the most varied - I was in full right to speak - on Valencia, on the identity of the Valencians or on the unity of Spain, and I understand that the rest...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u28	Mr Errejón, I no longer give you the floor. I just reminded you that it's the allusion turn and this instant that turn is over and the groups... [[Errejón Galván: But I should have told the People's Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the speaking time and the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency has given the floor to three groups. The debate is now continuing and the groups will have the opportunity to defend their position. [[Mr. Errejón Galván: I would only beg that the People's Group not systematically violate the round of allusions.]] Your Honor, your intervention is over. [[Mr Hernando Vera asks for the floor]] Mr Hernando, I would ask you briefly to tell me the Rule of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u29	Article 72.1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u30	Go ahead, Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u31	Rule 72.1, Madam President, as you know, says that at any time during the debate a Member may request compliance with the Rules of Procedure. What I am asking you to do is to comply with your obligation under Rule 32(2), which states that it is the Presidency that interprets the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure state that it is the President who has to decide whether there have been any allegations or whether there has to be a call to order. It may or may not like Mr Baldoví's intervention, but it has not fallen on any of the established points of the call to order. It has not been offensive; it has been hard, but not offensive, so, Madam President, I ask you to abide by the Rules of Procedure and do not allow the plenary to be interrupted again in this way. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u32	Mr Hernando, I have given you the floor to consider the article you have appointed. I have had enough patience to give the floor to your ladies and gentlemen. The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure does so and has been done by the Presidency under the articles to which your honourable Members have referred, and I ask you to respect your decision. The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the articles that you have mentioned and the powers of this Presidency, is done by the Presidency, and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that, like all of you, you do not use the speaking time tortically either by reference or by calling to order. And I'll remind you of something else. If you were to review the last sittings in this House, if you had to have called the question and order, this Presidency would not have finished the sittings, so I ask you not to see the straw in one eye and the beam in the other. Thank you so much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And I pray silence, that silence, as well as the word, is also in the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to Mr Tardà i Coma, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Most honourable President of the Generalitat del País Valencià, Honourable President of the Valencian Courts and Honourable Vice President of the Generalitat del País Valencià, commissioners of the Valencian Courts, welcome on behalf of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, on behalf of Esquerra Republicana del País Valencià and on behalf of Esquerra Republicana de los Illes Balears; on behalf of the independence of the Catalan countries. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very popular Valencian expression, an expression that is certainly used by all Catalan-speaking Valencians and also those who are not who will know it. I'm sure they've heard it. It says, "Oh, let's do it!" Oh, let's do it! [[Laughter]] Well, this expression - which is used in an imperative way - is used in the face of hastyness, in the face of those people or institutions that cause discomfort from high positions and deeply generating boredom. This is a very common expression in Valencians and Valencians when they refer to the Spanish State. Oh, let's do it! Because, after decades of offering glory to Spain, the Spanish state how does it pay the Valencià Country? He pays you with economic expoliation. In the last fifteen years the General Budgets of the State have allocated less resources to each citizen of the Valencia Country than the Spanish average. Valence, shut up and pay. This is the mantra of the Spanish state: silence and pay. Work, don't stop working. The Valencians have always been as hardworking as the rest of the peoples of the Catalan countries. Always pay, pay, and expolio, because in the General Budgets of the State of 2016 the average investment in the Spanish State is 237 euros, while in the Valencià Country there are 176. Obviously, all the amendments of the Valencian Republicans in this exercise were rejected, as were the Republican amendments of the Republican Left of the Valencian Country in previous years. As the comrade and friend Baldoví has said, it is evident that there will be no railway corridor of the Mediterranean or investment in the railway line Gandía-Denia or railway connection Valencia-Alacant by Alcoy and, of course, no duplication in the N-332 and in the N-340 as it passes through the Baix Maestrat. If in the last fifteen years the State had invested proportionally to the population of the Valencia Country, it would have had to invest 6.8 billion more. That is why Valencian citizenship is tired of suffering from an expoliating state. The Valencia Country is a unique case. It is a territory that has the poorest per capita gross domestic product than the average of the State, but has a deficit balance with respect to the same State. Between 2002 and 2009 the Valencià country has paid 45 billion more than they did not return. This is a calculation not accepted by the Spanish Government, since it is the calculation made using the monetary flow methodology. It is a calculation that the Spanish Government does not accept, but it is a calculation that is academically recognized. Moreover, the 45 billion is 3 billion more than the total debt contracted by the Generalitat del País Valencià. The same Ministry of Finance, with the other criterion of calculation, the criterion of the burden-benefit - another existing methodology as academically recognized as the previous -, recognizes for the year 2013 - that are the last data we know - a deficit of 1.4 billion. It is, therefore, 1.4 billion that the Valencians paid in 2013 and that did not return to the Valencia Country. That's called paying and shutting up. That's why you'll find it reasonable for many Valencians to look at the Spanish state and say, "Au, let's do it!" The People's Party fell. In fact, we all know that the problems arise from the People's Party, which has indeed been the armed arm of this deplorable effect, but you must also recognize the socialists that you have agreed somewhat. I remember the Republican deputy and independentist Agustí Sardà, defending in the year 2006 from this rostrum, when it was being processed l'Statut d'Autonomia del País Valencià, the Tax Agency of the Valencià Country in order and effect that it was the Valencians, who were their institutions, who collected the taxes of the citizens of the Valencià Country, which was a first procedure, a first stage to be able to control the resources of the citizens of the Valencià Country. I remember how he was rejected, and what did us more harm, how he tried to caricaturize, that is, almost ridicule what we were defending in 2006, the creation of a Valencian tax agency. It is true that the times have changed and that if we now did a hemerotheque exercise, we would see that some Valencian entrepreneurs who aimed at the People's Party car have corrected the course; also some unions and a part of Valencian civil society who made the fat broth to the People's Party, but now reason has been imposed. Why? Because in the Valencià Country there is a double danger, a double threat, and it is that the economic viability of the territory is not guaranteed and the sustainability of the social model is not guaranteed, a welfare state that in the Valencià Country arrived late and that was also subsequently expoliated by the Government of the People's Party. Then we have to react and we have to do it by recognizing where the evils come from. Moreover, it is an abuse that is perpetuated because, is it so absurd to ask that the debt of the FLA be forgiven on account of the historical debt? Is there no historical debt? Is it not true that for decades Valencians and Valencians have paid much more than they have received? Then there is a question here that needs to be raised, because all this is absurd and irrational and we are talking about a latrociny, we are talking about a normalized latrociny over time, but it is a latrociny. Besides, Mr. Montoro's FLA is perverse. It turns out that the Valencians receive the money that was previously theirs, and also Mr Montoro, from the ministry, tries to implement his policies dictated by himself and even tries to sabotage the democratic will of the Valencian people represented in the Valencian Courts. Of course we are going to vote in favour of this proposal, it is clear that we are going to vote in favour; a proposal which seeks to incorporate a provision similar to that of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in this case to link the investment of the State to the weight of the population of the Valencian Country. But don't be fooled, this is wet paper. Or do you not remember that the People's Party has the Constitutional Court, which is on a salary, intercommissioned - Mr Rafa Hernando is not going to be offended? Does the Constitutional Court act impartially? What was the Constitutional Court's ruling on Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy? What did you sentence? He felt that State investment could not be linked to a statute of autonomy. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by stating the following. There is no way out for the Valencia Country until the Valencians do not control their economic resources, and this leads us to a scenario of right to decide, right to decide, and obviously build the future republic of the Valencia Country. I use this rostrum to remind all of you that on 9 October, Sunday, the National Day of the Valencia Country is celebrated and you are all invited and invited to manifest that day in the afternoon for the social rights of Valencians and Valencians and for their national rights. See the Republic of the Valencia Country! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u35	Thank you, President. Mr Ximo Puig - President - Mrs Monica Oltra - Vice-President - Mr President of Les Corts, Members, ladies and gentlemen, welcome. I think that we have just given a pitiful spectacle; it is very likely that the Valencian citizens who are seeing us are a little overwhelmed. For two reasons, for what you have done and because, moreover, everything we are doing here right now is useless. Mr Tardà, along with other geniuses, has just remembered this - then I will remember some of his - but it is obvious that the Constitutional has closed this door to us more than once; it is obvious that we have no Government and it is obvious that it is another way that we must set in motion to solve this problem. We absolutely agree with the diagnosis you have made. The Valencian Community stops receiving 1,300 or 1.4 billion a year each year, and that is a very serious problem. It is not the only autonomous community that has this problem - everything has to be said - and that is why, of course, we spend less money on health, education, dependence, necessary infrastructure; but it is not the only reason. We also spend less money on all this so important for corruption, for inefficiency, for ineptitude, lords of the tripartite. [[Applauds]] So if while we talk about that solution, knowing that we can't carry it out here, and we overact as Mr Baldoví has done - because corruption, Mr Baldoví, is not cured by overacting - and we do things that don't take us anywhere and yet we do nothing in Madrid or we do nothing there, in the Valencian Community, lords of Les Corts and of the Council, what we are doing here pure and simply is overacting. Look, you overact when you're not sure about your ability, when you don't have any capacity, or, worse, when you think you can fool the citizen, the public. Or what's much worse, when you want to cheat on him and that's what you're doing here. But we believe that the citizens of the Valencian Community deserve something much better. We believe that they deserve managers to really get to work, seriously to improve their quality of life. We have heard the People's Party and now we will also hear the Socialist Party tell us that they are both responsible and, ladies and gentlemen, they are both right, they are both responsible for autonomous financing and they have both legislated, sometimes with absolute majority, and they have done nothing to improve it; they are both right. [[Applauds]] In addition, the People's Party must be reminded that in addition to all that, for all the time it has been ruling there, it is responsible - according to the Council's data - for 4 billion euros of hole in the Valencian Community because of its corruption; 4 billion, almost four times what they are demanding here today that the financing of the Autonomous Community of Valencia should be improved each year. Only in the Ciegsa and Taula cases would we be talking about 2 billion and Compromís, We can and - forgive me - a certain part of the PSOE are doing what some of the nationalist parties have always pointed out to them, or all, what Mr Tardà has also done so far: to blame everything on Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Les Corts, if you do nothing there, if you do nothing here and all you do is do nothing here, do nothing there and blame Madrid for everything, then you are absolutely irrelevant, you have nothing to do. Withdraw; if you cannot grant any solution to the Valencians, withdraw, there are others we can do. [[Applauds]] The problem is not going to be solved by the way you are proposing, you know, so as long as we are able to get this country going once and for all - and we will be talking about that too - as long as we negotiate better financing for the Valencians as it should be, not as you propose - I repeat, the Constitutional has closed that way, it is not the way - as long as we close once and for all multilaterally the financing of the autonomous communities of this country, while we do that because it is bilaterality that has brought us here, why do we not talk about what we can do here in Madrid and what we can do in the Valencian Community? Because those resources that we are here wanting to receive, those 1.3 billion a year in the Valencia Community, will be for something, won't they? Isn't it to ensure good education and public health? Look at the document I just handed you, in case you don't know it; Mr Ferri, you don't seem to have read it much. It is the one hundred common measures that have the two investment agreements that we have signed with the Socialist Party and the People's Party. It's a center agreement, it's a hundred measures, neither left nor right, as you said before. These measures guarantee decent public health and public education for Valencians, much more than decent, and you voted against both. [[Applauds]] In those 100 measures look at what we guarantee with both parties to be able to fund a Unit Law in condition, it is there, and you voted against. See how funding is guaranteed for a Mediterranean corridor that could provide wealth and employment for Valencians. [[Mr Ferri Fayos: When? When?]] It's there and you voted against it, Mr Ferri. Do you know what's amazing? There are practical solutions, really, not overperformance and the show, there are practical performances to improve the quality of life of Valencians for many years, there they are. In the last year, you - Mrs Bonig, Mr Ferri and Mr Mata - have voted against on some occasion of those solutions that we have managed to really improve - without shows or overperformance - the quality of life of the Valencians and you, the three of you, voted against. [[Applauds]] Now, as long as you and all of us decide what to do, whether to implement those 100 measures or boycott, as you have done - with your government partners, by the way, in the Valencian Community, a left-wing government, as you say - as long as you think whether or not to do it again, whether there is a change or not, or whether there is a government implementing those 100 measures, what do we do in Valencia? Mr Puig, allow me to address you directly, how did you think of giving the portfolio of Sustainable Economy, Productive Sectors, Trade and Employment to Commitment? [[Rumors]] Lords of Commitment, let's see how you create wealth and employment or, better, let's see how you destroy it. For starters, I'm going to talk about what is the training - because it seems relevant to me - of the counselor who takes care of - I repeat in case someone hasn't heard it - Economy, Productive Sectors, Trade and Employment. The counselor who dedicates himself to all this and who belongs to the Bloc - a group that is within his group, who in turn is in that group, who then presents himself with no know who - is professor of Philology, professor of Greek in an institute. [[Applauds]] I have a certain aspiration - within my very great limitations - to a humanistic formation. I would like the Minister of Economics or the Councillor of Economics to dominate the Greek - and I'm sorry for the expression -, but I would really prefer to have a solid formation in the economy and trade. [[Laughter]] Take the Valencians seriously. Moreover, this gentleman says that capitalism kills - I suppose he will keep that communism not, this thing to which the Lords of Podemos have accustomed us here - but, explain to us what is his alternative. [[Rumors]] Really, what's your alternative. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u36	One moment, please, Mr. Singing. Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u37	Don't worry because I'm not going to lie to the Bolivian faggot but explain to us what the alternative is. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Churches, sometimes they talk about the Nordic countries but it is that the Nordic countries are capitalists. I'll tell you what they're not, Mr Ferri. The Nordic countries are not inept and do not practice the capitalism of friends. That is the model we defend. I want to remind you of something that you have achieved and that is absolutely remarkable. In just six months his advisor, the mayor of Valencia - who is also from Compromís - and the tripartite of Alicante - to give an example - have achieved the following: they reject in April an investment of the ARC Group worth 1 billion euros that was to provide 20,000 jobs. At the end of this summer they did the same with Mediterranean Port, which was going to invest 863 million euros and create 6,000 jobs and in Alicante rejected an IKEA investment of 250 million that would have provided 4,000 jobs. Mr Ferri, your tripartite, let me tell you, in just half a year, you have squandered more than the amount you have come here to demand, overacting, that the Valencian Community needs. That's the reality. [[Applauds]] We very much agree with your allegations to the People's Party and with the cost of corruption in the People's Party, with that inefficiency too, but we will not fail to denounce yours, Mr Ferri. I will finish and ask you for a moment of patience, President, to address me directly to you, Mr Puig. With the respect that I deserve the position that you hold, with the gratitude that I have for your person - and you know it because you have always shown me a closeness that has allowed me to comment important things for Valencians face to face with you -, I will ask you a favor for the good of all Valencians: Change partners, Mr. Puig, I really tell you. Change partners. Leave those who voted against the draft change that your party presented a few months ago, betraying you. Let those who set up a government and appoint them vice-presidents, ministers, etc., while their candidate is still meeting with the king. Let those who call the lime alive, let those who this Sunday sent their hosts to Ferraz to fish in turbulent waters and hit a Socialist Party that is having a very bad time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u38	Mr. Cantó, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u39	I'm done, President. Let those who prove to be irrelevant or pernicious managers, those who practice the capitalism of friends. We are willing to support them. I am convinced that the People's Party, as it has done in Castile-La Mancha - or do the Valencians deserve less than the Castile-Manchegos?-, will give you your free support and you will be able to make a truly useful government for the Valencians. Mr. Puig, it's your decision. Are we still overworking or working together? Do we want to be useful or not? What do you think the Valencians deserve? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, applause, stood up.- Mr Baldoví Roda asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u40	Mr. Baldoví, article.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u41	Article 71. He's made allusions to people who weren't here. Can I start?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u42	Mr. Baldoví...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u43	Article 71. He's made allusions to our advisors, from Compromises, trying to ridicule them. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u44	Your Honour, I have taken note of your reference and your interpretation of the Article of the Rules of Procedure, bearing in mind in the record what you have just said.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u45	But can I say two things?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u46	In a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u47	They won't be a minute. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Cantó because no one in this House will ever be able to live up to his overperformance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u48	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u49	Secondly, because of the reference he made to the Councillor for Industry. He's an actor and today he's talked about a lot of things. No one here in this House has been asked where it comes from in order to be a Member. [[Applauds]] We can all be deputies and represent our countries...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u50	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Ballester Muñoz has the floor. [[Mrs Ballester Muñoz is heading for the speaker's rostrum.-Rumores]] Always let the Presidency know if you're going to change your voice. [[Rumors]] It's ma'am. Thank you very much. Mrs Ballester Muñoz, I'm sorry because in my script I figure that-wrong and not that-wrong, and since there have been changes in the benches today and I don't have them updated, having made changes in some, not in you, I didn't know that you were Mrs Ballester, but don't worry that from today you will be the best known person in this House. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u51	Thank you very much, President. Apology accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a cordial greeting to the representatives of the Valencian people who are accompanying us today: Mr President, Mr Vice-President, Mr President of the Valencian Courts, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. In the Valencian Community today, ladies and gentlemen, 50% of public educational establishments do not have the necessary infrastructure, which affects 270,000 pupils. Talking about this figure is not overacting. There are 116 schools and institutes built in barracks; some have been in a barracks for more than ten years: a whole school life. More than 40,000 people who should receive and do not receive assistance under the Unit Act. We are also in line with the quality of our health services. This year moreover, unfortunately, we have ascended into the ranch of mortgage executions with an average of 29 evictions a day: the second community in evictions, ladies and gentlemen. A community with almost 450,000 unemployed people. The Valencian Community has gone from being prosperous to being poor, looted and underfunded by the successive governments of the People's Party in Valencia and Madrid. This has begun to change thanks to the policies of change set out in the Agreement of the Botànic, where we show that it is possible to reach political agreements that put people and not the parties ahead, and that we are making reality from Las Corts Valencianes and from the Generalitat. But it is clear that without the necessary funding and investment it is difficult to move forward as we want in response to our commitment to society. Faced with this reality, this difficult reality, we come today to process, for the third time and perhaps not the last, a proposal that was approved in the Valencian Courts in 2011, an amendment of the Statute d'Autonomia that, as already expressed by those who have preceded me in the use of the word, reflects the need for the state's investment to take into account the weight of the Valencian population in Spain. Every time we vote on this proposal here, the Valencians owe a billion euros more. Millions of euros that should be aimed at improving our public services. How then do we explain to the Valencians and Valencians who have been here since 2011, on the day of the parliamentary proceedings marmot without responding to their problems and needs? It can only be explained by a huge and perverse lack of democratic character and political responsibility of the governments of the People's Party in Valencia and Madrid. The government of the People's Party, that of Mr Montoro, that of Mr Rajoy, who has been absolutely disloyal to the Valencian people for a long time. And successive Valencian governments have done nothing to solve this problem or even allow this proposal to come to this House. In 2011, already long ago, the Popular Party of Francisco Camps raised this proposal in Las Cortes against the situation of financial suffocation, pointing with his finger to Madrid to talk about our problems; but at the same time he embraced Mariano Rajoy, that president of the government who has not moved a finger to solve this problem of the Valencians despite his absolute majority. Less hugs, gentlemen of the People's Party, and more demand for what we owe to the Valencians! [[Applauds]] The Valencian Community received and continues to receive insufficient transfers and investments in relation to the weight we have in this country. But this is not the only problem and perhaps not the main cause of the current situation, which is also due - yes, Mr Hernando - to the corrupt governments that have wasted the money of all Valencians and Valencians, who have put the institutions at the service of a minority and against the people they were supposed to represent. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the mismanagement and corruption of the Valencian PP are also at the root of the unusual and unjust indebtedness that we are suffering right now. Many are in court today, so I ask you not to use funding to hide your mismanagement and corruption, Mrs Bonig. [[Applauds]] It is important that this reform be approved, it would represent a new awareness on the part of these Courts and the Executive Power that the Valencian Community has been suffering from a lack of permanent, systematic and structural investment, which precariouss the reality of many Valencians, but it is insufficient reform because it is not binding. Moreover, it is insufficient reform because it does not address the main problem, which is that of financing. That is why, from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, we demand that the debate on the financing model be opened in this House, which the Valencians and Valencians need but also which other autonomous communities need in order to be able to take full responsibility for our competences. There is much to be done if we want this country of countries to be based on fraternity, solidarity and equality among peoples. And this is not only true of speeches; this fundamental issue for the Valencian people requires a firm commitment and clarity in the positions. The demand for fair funding cannot be allowed to contradict, and unfortunately, in recent days we have seen these contradictions in some of our top representatives. Last week was, in fact, a disconcerting week for many people and for many hearted socialists, and it is only fair to show the utmost respect for all those people who today feel disappointed. The Socialist Party has encountered one of those inescapable situations in politics: choosing who you are with, choosing whether you are on the side of the people or on the side of the powerful. In the Valencià Country, this disjunctive was resolved with the Botanical Agreement and with a Government that is trying to implement policies of change. In Spain, on the other hand, it seems that the Socialist Party has chosen a path that it accepts, which facilitates the path of the corrupt once again to Moncloa. We have to choose in politics, Mr Puig, and the contradictions are not worth it. So I'm going to take this opportunity to ask you openly, not as a Socialist Party activist, not as a member of that party, but as the president of all Valencians and Valencians: Will you decide to make it easier for the government of those who have denied us fair funding for so long? What will you say when Mr Montoro's new cuts arrive, those that will be the joy of the troika and Mrs Merkel? Who will then be responsible for your Government not being able to implement the measures that most Valencians need? Who are you going to demand a fairer deal for the Valencian Community? The Valencians and Valencians deserve a president who defends our rights and that is not going to be done with a government of Mariano Rajoy. That is not going to be done with a government of Mariano Rajoy, Mr Cantó, who has not come here to overact; he has come here to represent again the role of Celestina that has been making Citizens. [[Applauds]] That is not going to be the solution for Valencians and Valencians. Our obligation is to fight to put an end to the terrible and cursed heritage of the People's Party on our land and never again have a government that rules against our people. But let's not be fooled, let's not be wrong. In May 2015 the Valencians and Valencians ended the mistreatment of the People's Party governments in the community and we are very proud of it, but contempt for the Valencian people continues, not only in the past. Disappointment is a government in office that uses investment and financing to blackmail the autonomous communities, and Mr Montoro knows this very well. Disappointment is to claim a barter with our rights, Mrs Bonig. The President of the People's Party in the Valencian Community, Mrs Bonig, here, did not long ago ask for votes for Rajoy's investiture in exchange for fair funding for the Valencian Community, nothing more and nothing less. With this you have made it clear, Mrs Bonig, that for you the education, dependence or health of the Valencian people are nothing more than a currency of exchange, with this you have made it clear that the People's Party has neither had nor has Valencian funding as a priority. Reality cannot be covered with a speech in this House or in any House. A Rajoy government already knows that it is not a guarantee of investment or better financing for our community, so do not try to deceive us, and above all, Mrs Bonig, stop selling the well-being of the Valencians to defend their party. Funding is a just and historic claim of the Valencian people, that no one should use it to hide the mismanagement or corruption of the past, that no one should use it as a currency of change for partisan purposes, that our vote today is a firm and sincere commitment because the well-being, rights and future of our community and our people are at stake. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Ballester. Mr López Milla has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like my first words in this rostrum to greet the President of the Valencian Generalitat, the President of Les Corts, the members of the Council and the Bureau of Les Corts who are accompanying us this afternoon and to welcome also the Members of the Autonomous Parliament who are in the rostrum of guests. There have been many allusions from this rostrum to the President of the Valencian Generalitat who sits in the rostrum of guests and, logically, cannot intervene. I am not going to reply, of course, on his behalf to his allusions, but he was recently asked to choose, to choose, and I would just like to remind him that in this House we all Members had the opportunity to choose and to choose last March and each one chose what he chose and chose what he chose. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we again address in this House, as we did at the beginning of April, the proposal for the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community which was approved by the Autonomous Parliament in March 2011 and which the Valencian Government of Francisco Camps proceeded with through the urgency procedure because it felt that it was very urgent to approve it as soon as possible. At that time he ruled in Spain José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Many of you will probably be wondering why we are still five and a half years later debating and the reason is very simple; the reason is that, since Mr. Rajoy's arrival in the Moncloa, the absolute majority of the People's Party in this Congress, in connivance with another absolute majority of the same party in the Valencian Courts, did everything possible to delay his debate by fencing absurd arguments that were only intended to hide, I think with little success, that this statutory reform had for the People's Party a purely electoral purpose and that he never believed in it. That is why, when the circumstances changed at the end of 2015, when the PP could no longer use the Valencian Corts to further postpone the debate, then, when the general elections were approaching, the People's Group had no choice but to give way to its handling in Congress; that is, when there was not enough time left to approve it. The same happened only a few months ago, in April of this year, when this House was about to dissolve to call a new general election. The Socialist Group will of course support this reform, as it did in the previous two legislatures when it tried to push it against the wishes of the People's Group. A reform of the Statut d'Autonomia Valencian to which it seems that some group wants to reduce its value based on ridicule. I would say that if the problem is that this reform does not legally bind, I hope that the same group that so pronounces itself asks its deputies and deputies from the Valencian Courts to stop presenting initiatives there that urge the Government of Spain to act in one direction or another, because those initiatives do not legally bind this House or the Government of Spain, or to stop supporting resolutions such as those they supported a few days ago in the debate on the state of the community in which something similar is claimed to what the reform of the Statute of Autonomy calls for. Those resolutions do not legally bind the Government of Spain or this House. Moreover, what the Constitutional Court's ruling mentioned a few minutes ago says is quoted literally - literally quoted - in the explanatory statement accompanying the text of the reform that we are discussing, also defining that it is the framework within which this reform of the Statute of Autonomy can be considered and interpreted. Therefore, we must not hide ourselves in these arguments in order not to support the proposal submitted by the Valencian Parliament. If any group doesn't like it, let's not vote against it, let's vote against it if it wants but doesn't ridicule it, and let's stop overacting. I think that being an actor is a very respectable profession, such as being a teacher of Greek or being an economist; I, modestly, am an economist, although it is probably one of the most criticized professions in Spain right now. In short, they support this reform of the Statut d'Autonomie because it constitutes a legitimate demand that is the legitimate demand of a people, the Valencian people, who are making a great effort, a huge effort to re-emerge, a huge effort to remove the heavy burden that has left us two decades of waste, pre-potence and abuse. Two decades in which the Valencian Government did not settle for a dividing line between those who supported it and those who did not support it, accusing those who did not applaud it of being against the interests of Valencian citizens. Not in line with that, the Valencian Government also devoted itself to harassing the dissenters and prosecuting those who had been denouncing for many years the abuses that now fill the pages of media courts. Two decades of confusion between the public and the private, two decades in which a few were enriched at the expense of the heritage that was of all Valencians and Valencians. Two decades in which some played with advantage, taking advantage of what was everyone's to get doped up at the elections. Perhaps an illustrious Senator of the Mixed Group, well known to all, has now become the best metaphor of what has been the rise and fall of the Valencian PP. [[Applauds]] But the Valencian people have not been dragged into that fall and continue to strive, they continue to strive to lift the heavy burden, the huge economic and reputational mortgage that we have been bequeathed twenty years of People's Party governments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Valencian Community is not a rich community, it is the eleventh because of its level of per capita income, which is situated 12% below the average in Spain; this represents about EUR 2,700 per year, which is the distance between the per capita income of the Valencian Community and the average of the whole of Spain. At the beginning of the 1990s, that difference was virtually zero. And the decline that the income levels of the Valencian Community have experienced in relation to the average of Spain over the last twenty years is no different from the fact that those of us who live there in the Valencian Community contribute to covering as if we were rich the services that the State deploys throughout Spain, and this is reflected in all the reports on public revenues and expenditures that have been prepared during the last decades, including the reports that the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration does. One of the reasons that explains this relative decline in income is undoubtedly the system of autonomous financing, which has placed the Valencian Community very far from the average per capita income for decades - for decades, not since 2009, as someone has said here before and that it would be a change of speech; it has been for decades -, and has ended up leaving scarce resources today to almost all autonomous communities. Meanwhile, the Government of Spain preferred to waste the fruits of economic recovery by promoting tax reform that primarily favours high incomes and large corporations. Because the Rajoy Government preferred to continue cutting in health, education and dependency, it preferred to amputate the political and financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, which are primarily responsible for providing these public services to which I referred, rather than implementing the reform of the funding system that the law itself regulating that system provides for it to be implemented within five years of its entry into force. The other reason for the relative decline in Valencia's income is the lack of State investment, which has almost always been much lower than the weight of our population or our contribution to gross domestic product. By the way, as far as the reform of the Statut d'Autonomia is concerned, it is to this, to the investments of the State in the Valencian Community, not to the system of autonomous financing. Looks like someone's confused him before in this rostrum. This has been particularly the case in recent years, because after the sharp decline in investments in the Valencian Community following Mr Rajoy's arrival in Moncloa, there was a reduction of about 6% in two consecutive budgets, 6% of the total, while the Valencian Community accounts for about 11% of the population and 10% of the economic activity in Spain. In the five budgets of Mariano Rajoy, almost 2 billion euros have been lacking for the per capita investments of the State in the Valencian Community to be placed on the average of Spain, 2 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen. And the community's expectations for the future are even worse, they are even worse because budgets are just a forecast that is sometimes not met, as happened this year when they were closed in July. According to the data of the Chamber of Contractors of the Valencian Community that have already been cited, the tender for public works, that is, the contracting of new works, which marks its evolution for the future, is in the Valencian Community in historical minimums. After being slightly above 4% on average in Mr Rajoy's last years of government, it is barely 3%. What we have in 2016 is 2.7%; it is in historical minimums. And this lack of bidding for new public works questions the continuity of infrastructure investments over the coming years. Therefore, the proposal for a statutory reform that the Valencian Courts send to us is to urge us to put an end to this situation, and it does so from solidarity, it does so without falling into victimism and, above all, it does so from commitment and responsibility. It is the commitment and responsibility of more than 5 million Valencians, women and men who are willing to continue to make progress, who are determined to make effective and efficient use of the public resources, the investments of the State and the infrastructures that it provides to continue to lead economic growth, as has already happened in 2015, when a poor autonomy, the Valencian Community, has been the one that has grown the most in Spain as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. The myth of the happy Levante has collapsed, it has collapsed just as those who fed the deterioration of the public services, extended the waste, manipulated the deficit and weakened the controls on spending, the same ones that allowed corruption to cover its width and used Valencian institutions to get doped into the elections. But today the Valencian Community is reborn, it has entered a new stage and what it deserves, ladies and gentlemen, is that we give it the support it needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u54	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Camps Devesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it will also be my first words to join those who have already welcomed the very honourable President of the Generalitat, the very excellent President of the Valencian Courts and those who, on behalf of the various parliamentary groups and institutions represented in these Courts, have taken the floor today. And let me underline the title: very honourable President of the Generalitat - I stress - of the Valencian Community. Valencian Community, Mr. Tardà. Every time we have this debate, I have to tell the representatives of your parliamentary group. My legal and statutory land is called the Valencian Community. If you want, historically, Regne de Valencia, but not País Valencià part of imaginary Catalan countries that exist only in its head but not in the reality of the Valencian people. [[Applauds]] We are Valencian Community and, of course, the majority feeling is far from that republic that you have quoted here today. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning I read an article by my good friend the popular MEP Esteban González-Pons when he came here who did not think he would use it in this debate. Mr González-Pons concluded that this country was a country where charlatans, inquisitors and exhibitionists abounded. Well, I was right, and good evidence of that has been some of the speeches that have taken place this afternoon in this House. I, ladies and gentlemen, will try to live up to the circumstances, to the level that this debate deserves with regard to 5 million Valencians and the rest of the Spaniards. Today more than ever, ladies and gentlemen, Spanish politics, in the words of the new socialist president, needs serenity and responsibility. I share that, but dialectic responsibility too, Mr Baldoví. I repeat that I will try to live up to the circumstances and, of course, I will not try, Mr Canto, to deceive the Valencians. I do not know whether you have overacted or not - you have criticized the intervention of some representatives of other parliamentary groups for overacting - but you have deceived this House when you said that there are official reports which estimate the cost of corruption in the Valencian Community at EUR 4 billion. There is no such report, unless your honor has confused - I don't know if for your information - costs with illegal commissions. And I tell you that if for you a modified, reformed and price-reviewed surcharge is equal to an illegal commission, all governments in this country and outside it have ever been corrupt, Your Honor. So don't confuse yourself and don't want to cheat. To most of you, to those who have represented the Valencian Courts today, rather than a formal welcome you should say: Hello, this way again! There are already three since September last year that we have discussed this consideration and it has been voted on affirmatively in the previous two. Are we faced with a parliamentary nonsense, ladies and gentlemen? Is it seemingly absurd to repeat this debate for the third time? Is that due to possible errors in the applicable legislation? No, ladies and gentlemen, no, because, although some of you believe it, it is not the legal provisions that oblige us to hold this debate for the third time, but it is paradoxically the political opposition of some groups in this House that is the cause of the same and the next - hopefully not - if it were to occur. And I say paradoxically, because it is the parliamentary groups that have most talked about blocking this initiative that now prevent it from being finally approved, those that in their day did not respect the decisions of the Valencian Courts, those that in this same debate six months ago removed parliamentary breasts, because - and I quote Mr Ferri textually -: Citizenship has decided to renew the representatives and to give way to new faces and new speeches, because the patience of the Valencians - I said - has reached its limit and, therefore, Compromís has multiplied by four its presence in this House. Those who spoke of new majorities and of a new government, as Mrs Ballester said, or of policy change, as Mr López said, those who forced a second general election in six months, and consequently this debate, were abrupt with reality. Those who had multiplied by four, multiplied by one, didn't they, Mr. Baldoví? Who joined the usual communists, no more votes and no more seats, right, Mrs Ballester? Whoever asked for policy change lost votes and seats, didn't he, Mr. Lopez? And mostly in your province, which is also mine. There has been only one party with more votes, 80,000 more votes in the Valencian Community, and more seats, two more seats in the Valencian Community, the People's Party. So, if you want to, go on with the usual speech, it's not bad for us, but if you really thought about the five million Valencians, you wouldn't. If they cared more about the Valencians than their own acronyms, they would not prevent Spain from having a government for the second time. If this bill were to be debated for the fourth time, it would be because the Valencian deputies of Compromís, Podemos and the Socialist Party so decide. Without a government, ladies and gentlemen, there is no legislature, without a government there is no opposition, and without a government there is no revision of the model of autonomous financing, even if empty words referring to past responsibilities are filled up in an effort as useless as empty. There's the difference. In view of the same proposal, my party, my parliamentary group and I, in its representation, maintain the same rigour, the same coherence and therefore the same political position and, more importantly, with the same arguments. There are those who change ideas or approaches depending on whether they are in the opposition or in the Government. Not us. This is a reform that was approved by autonomous courts with a majority of the People's Party. This is a reform that was taken into consideration by this House twice with the favorable vote of who was in both the majority party, the People's Party. And this is a reform that will again be taken into consideration today with the affirmative vote of the group that remains the majority in this House, that of the People's Party. And we will do so, ladies and gentlemen, with consistency and rigour, something which has once again been missed by more than one parliamentary group this afternoon. Rigor, ladies and gentlemen, because, as I have already expressed in the past debate, the substance of the proposal that we are debating again underlies a legitimate aspiration common to all of us, such as to guarantee a certain amount of State investment in the various autonomous communities, but its cause and main foundation is to put an end to an unjust and insolidary model, the result of the decisions taken by the Socialist Government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, which fortunately, thanks to the policies of the People's Party Government, is now lagging behind. Those who today complain about Mr Montoro forget that Mr Solbes and Mrs Salgado denied the Valencian Community the investment that is being requested today, precisely because they do not have such an approved provision. You couldn't be more sectarian. Those who today make this proposal and claim it to be unsuspecting extremes never asked for it before. A People's Party government had to arrive, tired of the sectarianism of a socialist government, to approve it. And you, members of the Socialist Party, the United Left and the Compromise, had never claimed it before. Today they raise the voice, some very much, for the years of complacent silence. But as much as you scream, you will have no more reason. This is a reform of the Statute of the Valencian Community approved by the People's Party, as is the case - all honourable Members have referred to this - with the funding model. That is not the debate that concerns us - Mr López has been right there and some have been confused -; we are talking about investing the General Budgets of the State in the Valencian Community and not about financing the benefits of the Valencian Community, of social benefits or of any other kind. Ladies and gentlemen, the model of autonomous financing is unfair, yes, and not just for the Valencian Community. Should we check it or change it? Yeah. Can it be done with a government in office? No, no, It is, therefore, those who block a new Government from revising the current funding model, which, by the way, was approved by the Socialist Government with the support of the United Left and with the vote against the People's Group. Those who today tear their clothes by blaming all the evils of the system to the system of autonomous financing forget that it was they who approved it, with the applause of those who are today together with Podemos and the complicit silence of Compromís. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. The proposal that we are debating today does not link the General Courts in the exercise of their functions of review, amendment and approval or the State in its investment policy, but it is a just and legitimate claim of a people like the Valencian. By the way - I finish this, Madam President - ladies and gentlemen of the Left, and ladies and gentlemen of the Government of Valencia, recognize for once that something could be done well by the governments of the People's Party in the Valencian Community. If not, explain to me how it is possible that the Valencian Community in 2015 was the autonomous community that has grown the most in Spain as a whole, 3.6%. If not, explain to me why the registered unemployment was already falling at a rate of 49,000 people in the year 2015 in the Valencian Community, why social security membership is increasing at a rate of 63,000 more members per year, by 3.92% more, why indefinite recruitment is growing at a rate of 18%, why our exports have increased four times the national average, placing the Valencian Community as the region with the most volume of sales abroad, why our industrial output rate also multiplys, practically doubles that of the State at an annual rate while the national average is falling, why we beat tourist records, with an increase of 20.5 % more international tourists. Alicante Airport - attention, ladies and gentlemen - is the second most growing airport in Europe and many of you can no longer name Castellón Airport when talking about airports without planes because it has hit the passenger record in the last month, 12,000 - by the way, in one month - more than ten airports from the AENA network throughout Spain. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u56	Your Honor, go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u57	I'll be done immediately. If today the Valencian Community leads economic growth and job creation, it is thanks to the economic and labour policies launched by the People's Party Government. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will once again be consistent: it will vote in favour of this consideration in the hope that our vote will not fall into a broken bag. But, even if that were the case, we know that with this vote we have defended the unity of the citizens, the equality of their rights and solidarity among all of them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u58	Thank you very much. We thank Mr Ferri Fayos, Mr Mata Gómez and Mrs Bonig Trigueros, as well as the President of the Generalitat and the entire delegation accompanying him. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u59	We continue with item II of the agenda on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, on the reduction of VAT in veterinary services. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u60	Let's see if we can remove some tension from the environment with a slightly more transversal theme. [[Rumors]] President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, good afternoon. If you think so, let's start with a little survey. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u62	Don't worry, agreed and not binding. Please, can you raise your hand to those of you who have a dog or cat at home? [[Several ladies and gentlemen raise their hands]] The Bureau may participate, if they wish. [[Rumors]] It turns out that not many. I was afraid. I think that explains a few things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u63	Your Honor, the rostrum is for the floor. Therefore, let us stick to the use of the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u64	That's what I was doing. I won't do anything else. Mahatma Gandhi: 'A country... can be judged by the way it treats its animals'. [[applause from Mr Iglesias Turrion]] Thank you, Pablo. Spain, insufficient. I think that the treatment of animals will not improve until the political representatives have a greater animalistic awareness and until more politicians are sensitive to the importance of the human-animal bond. Today, in addition to lowering the VAT on veterinary services from 21 % to 10 %, I invite you to strive to know and value the social and health benefits of our pets. If anyone is tempted to call them luxury items, I would remind you that almost half of the state's families have a pet at home. A lot of luxury shouldn't be. The need for adequate veterinary care for the protection of animal health is not hidden from anyone. Less visits to the veterinarian pose a greater risk to human health. 'Higia pecoris, salus populi' says the motto of Veterinaria: the hygiene of livestock means the health of the people. Reducing the economic burden of VAT veterinary services from 21 % to 10 % would facilitate access to this unfairly treated part of health care, would significantly reduce the risks of zoonoses transmission and public health expenditure by treating them. It is not by repeated means less true: preventing it is more economical than treating it. It is not in vain that the International Bureau of Epizootics repeatedly warns us that the feared emerging and reemerging diseases are mostly of animal origin and almost all zoonotic, which means shared. Today will not be enough, but it will be an important step. I have the honour to announce that today they occupy the rostrum of very important personalities. Dr Josep Llupià i Mas, president of the Academy of Veterinary Sciences, veterinarian and eminent pharmacist, is a scientist who has suffered the old times of animal experimentation in mansalva and who with others has introduced - not without effort - criteria of rationality and humanity. Dr. Núria Querol i Viñas, a doctor, criminalologist and anthropologist, has demonstrated and established that interspecific violence is a precursor to intraspecific violence. That means if a guy hits his dog, you have to watch him because he's probably hitting his kids or his wife. Based on Dr. Viñas' investigation, the FBI has raised animal abuse to a class A crime, which is the highest class of crimes against society. Beyond the scientific sphere, it collaborates with associations of women victims of abuse in their daily activities and bears witness to the proven virtues of animal-assisted therapies. Dr. Jorge Pablo Pascual is a veterinary microentrepreneur who one day decided that we had to organize and make ourselves heard and now presides over the CEVE, which is the veterinary sector of the CEOE. Joaquín Aragonés is the director of the Association of Spanish Veterinarians Specialists in Small Animals, which has more than 5,000 partners striving for continuous training and a very high scientific level. Don José Enrique Zaldívar is president of Avatma. There is a great deal of scientific argument against animal abuse, illegal, legalized and those who try to relegate. In case there is still any doubt, the bull does suffer and Avatma has it overly argued and documented. Last but not least, the professor doctor don Juan José Badiola - I don't know if the magnificent one remains when he is no longer rector -, professor of Pathological Anatomy and president of the General Council of Veterinary Colleges of Spain, is the maximum scientific authority in sanitary matters as thorny and dangerous as spongiform encephalitis. As the president can certify today, he worked against this epidemic so efficiently that today we must remember that BSE is an almost eradicated disease that caused the crisis of mad cows. The presence of these authorities and what they represent honor the House and, of course, pride this proposer, and above all their support along with so many animal associations, micro and macro, as well as professional colleges, not only of veterinarians, but of all the health professions. Its support for this non-legislative proposal to reduce VAT on veterinary services from 21 % to 10 % and its support from both different and complementary perspectives of the human-animal link make the argument of this non-legislative proposal as simple as, I hope, unappealable. Call it chance or call it providence, when the Bureau sets this debate for today, October 4, the feast of Saint Francis of Assisi, patron saint of animals and veterinary medicine, and therefore World Animal Day, gives us an added argument. None like this date to remind us of the obligation we have to care for the animals with which the human species began to coexist and domesticate 9,000 years B.C. and to remember the almost 800 years of the composition of the Song of the Sun Brother, which is a beautiful composition of praise to all earthly creatures, as well as to the forces of nature, proclaiming them sisters. Do your ladies and gentlemen know the highest expression of ecology than declaring that all living beings should be treated as brothers? The Poverello d'Assisi is undoubtedly the great forerunner of all the discourse of the care of the common house. No day like today to take the first step to ensure that veterinary assistance is not taxed at the highest level of VAT. We thank the large groups for the support they have announced to us. The triumph of this PNL is not only of Esquerra, but of all the sensitive people with the human-animal bond. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of numerous associations and groups in the field of health services provision. Mr. Capdevila, I mean you not alluding to you but as a proponent of the initiative. This is the beginning of this parliamentary term as the whole of the previous one has passed, with a race to propose multiple initiatives on various issues, avoiding the surely only transcendental issue to date, the unique or principal obligation that we Members of this House have after the shameful spectacle of holding two general elections within six months, which is to give a stable government to the Spaniards. I cannot put any but the intervention that Mr Capdevila has made and I agree with many of his arguments, but it is necessary that there is a government in order to be able to urge the government to do this or to do the other. Nor can I put any but the many questions that Mr Capdevila has raised for the defence of these groups, for the work that professional colleges do or for the work that these professionals do in the field of public health. But let me also contextualize things and let me point out that, according to the INE's central business directory, while in the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 the growth of units dedicated to the provision of veterinary services was of the order of 180 to 220 each year, in 2013 - the first year of full application of the general type of VAT - there was a leap and increased in 384, and in 2015 there were 778. And also that the turnover in 2013 was 683 million and in 2014, 707. What's so important about this data, Your Honor? For they show that the decisive thing for this productive sector, as for the rest of the productive sectors in our country, is not so much - I do not say that it is not so much - the rise or fall in the tax rate, but that this sector and the rest of the sectors function because there is economic growth. It was necessary to return our country to economic growth and to do so quickly and it was neither possible nor - it will agree with me - convenient to make all the fiscal adjustment to grow on the side of public spending. At the same time as the Government of the nation was taking measures to reduce unnecessary expenditure in the administrations, there was a need to increase collection. And we take this measure of subjection to the general type of provision of health services, but it is a decision that you know, taken within the framework of the European tax regulation and which obliges you to make a very restrictive reading of the assumptions subject to the reduced rate. We cannot deceive the people, Your Honor - at least the group to which I belong will not - and if the regulation and interpretation of Community bodies is decisive in the field of VAT, that is where we must reside the debate and direct our efforts for the benefit of this decisive health group in the field of public health. This is what the People's Parliamentary Group will do, working in this area because we agree on the substance of its non-legislative proposal and we have therefore tabled an amendment along the following lines: The Congress of Deputies expresses the need to promote the necessary reforms in the relevant Community fora so that we can amend Law 37/1992. Having returned to growth, that our country is creating jobs at a good pace, that consumption has recovered decisively, that we have negative inflation rates is what allows the purchasing power of wages to be greater, and that we have lowered the IRPF to make more income available, all this also contributes decisively to the improvement of sales figures in the veterinary services sector. Much remains to be done, Your Honor, and the first is to give a stable government to the Spaniards but also to take a step forward in favour of this health care group and that is why we have proposed the amendment we are proposing. Of these two things - giving a government to the Spaniards and taking a step forward in defense of this health group - and also of decisively maintaining growth without shortcuts, without mirages or populisms, it depends, Your Honor, that we continue to progress. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u67	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor in the first place in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. New Canarias, in the less than two minutes that we have to express our position, we want to make clear our congratulations to the proposing group for presenting a non-legislative proposal on a subject that has always worried us extraordinarily. It is necessary not to charge taxes on activities affecting the general interest. Indeed, veterinary services have a triple dimension. An economic dimension, which is clearly undermined by such a tax increase in the sorry Royal Decree 20/2012. Secondly, it has an effect on animal health and the rights of animals and pet owners, which some rights will have. I am a doctor, of people, but I am very clear that animal health plays a decisive role in the public health that affects humans. Even if it were only in our own interests, we would be interested in defending animal health, which is a health service like any other. It must be perfectly clear that as far as zoonoses are controlled, we will be improving public health. All these objectives are worthy of this non-legislative proposal, and we will therefore support it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u69	Thank you very much. I now have the floor, also for the Joint Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. I express my support for this parliamentary initiative which proposes the reduction of VAT in veterinary services and, in addition, I would like to congratulate its proposer, Mr Capdevila i Esteve, because he has specified the keys that justify the need to modify a VAT whose increase has caused a perverse effect reflected in a lesser control, monitoring and welfare of pets. With the disadvantage of veterinary medicine, which is - I stress - a health profession, the rise in VAT from 8% to 21% has increased the difficulties since 2012 for pet owners to be able to bear the costs of basic services. And this has led to animal health consequences that have an impact on a risk to public health. In addition, prolonging the application of this tax by 21% is a comparative aggravation between the health professions and is detrimental to the beekeeping sector, as has been pointed out through their professional colleges and associations. Consequently, the cost of treatment applied by these professionals should be considered with a reduced rate of VAT. In addition, a legal opinion by Santiago Álvarez García, holder of Public Finance and Spanish Fiscal System of the University of Oviedo, is particularly valuable, which analyses in detail the entire European directive affecting the application of veterinary VAT. In this work prepared by Professor Asturian, it is concluded that a legislative change entailing a return to the application of a reduced tax rate for veterinary service provision activities is compatible with Community VAT rules. Finally, it should be noted that Spain urgently needs to ease taxes, and that for the Forum is an irrevocable political commitment that also depends on institutional normalization. This will all become wet paper if we do not have a government in the next few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u71	Thank you very much. Finally, I have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u72	Thank you very much, President. I would like to greet, on behalf of the political party to which I represent, the various representatives of professional associations, professional colleges and business associations in the veterinary field who accompany us. Let's vote in favour. The proposer, Joan Capdevila, is aware of this and we thank him for his proposal. We have had initiatives of this kind on different occasions during the previous parliamentary term and have not had any luck. If I may be allowed by the proposer, I shall devote the few seconds I have to counter the argument of the spokesman for the People's Group, which is absolutely wrong from our point of view. The Directive on the common system of VAT regulates the reduced rate in Article 98. Annex III to the Directive lists all products or services which may be supplied at reduced rates. Paragraph 17 provides: 'Provision of health and dental care, as well as thermal treatment, as long as it is not exempt'. A literal copy of article 91, paragraph 11, of the VAT Act which was in force until the Royal Decree 20/2012. It is as simple as returning to the literality of the VAT Act that was being applied. Obviously, the provision of veterinary services is health care. It is therefore not worth transferring the problem to the European Union. The European Union has a paragraph that if we re-transfer it to Spanish legislation with the same literality, it can be applied. Therefore, Mr Capdevila, I hope that this will be adopted today, and if the government fails to fulfil the mandate of this House, we will have to propose a legislative initiative in this House. He will also have our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u73	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u74	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Capdevila for his proposal because I believe that it is fair to address this issue of VAT reduction, as requested, on behalf of the whole body of veterinarians, who are here today, and whom I would like to greet on behalf of my group, because, regardless of whether their request is fair, we have not been explained in this House why the government's decision to suddenly increase VAT to 13 points to basic, fundamental services, such as those provided by veterinary clinics. Here we have an economic approach, but also something that derives more from the social point of view. On the one hand, as indicated here, Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 suddenly raised VAT from 8% to 21%. But it must also be said that it was in some way exempting, from another provision, the veterinary services of holders of agricultural, livestock or forestry holdings, maintaining their VAT by 10%. Therefore, even within the same profession, within the same service there is a difference and discrimination contrary to those that have veterinary clinics in urban areas, in cities, etc. That is, if you take a horse, an ox or a calf to the veterinarian, you get 10% of the VAT, but if you take a dog or a cat, 21 %. That is the difference and I believe that the services provided by veterinary clinics are equally valid, positive and necessary in both cases. In short, the service provided does not vary, it is indifferent to the service given; that is, if the same disease is cured, if prevention issues arise, the service provided is not considered, but is considered to be different from the holder. This is generating that, for example, if you charge 100 euros for the consultation, in the case of an ox it would be 110, but in the case of a dog it would be 121. It is an example that I do not know whether the veterinarians present here can take into account, but I wanted to address the issue we are discussing graphically. This, apart from being a comparative aggravation with respect to other health professions such as medicine, dentistry or pharmacy, which have other VAT that have nothing to do with it, in some way precariouss the animal health and welfare of all pets and, consequently, of all the owners of those pets, of the owners of dogs and cats mainly, generating even situations of zoonoses, that is, diseases that transmit animals to humans. And there have been cases where, for economic reasons, when the VAT suddenly rises by 13% - you have to take the dog many times, for example, when you are sick, the consultations are not cheap and the treatments are not - and you get to that situation, on the one hand, there are people who are stopping vaccination of dogs; or to take them to deworm; or not giving the service and attention that that dog required precisely because the bill is being very high. That, consequently, has resulted in what we said: dogs with poor health well-being that can transmit diseases to humans. And there have been cases of rabies, hydatitosis or equinococosis, leptospirosis and another series of diseases of animal transmission to humans. Apart from that, this problem has even led to the closure of veterinary clinics. This has also happened on the subject of cultural VAT, and I think something very similar is happening here: VAT is raised to raise more, but it ends up collecting less because activity is reduced, and if activity is reduced, at the end of the day there is less VAT because as much as it has been raised, if what has to be produced less, a situation like that of veterinary clinics is generated, which some have closed for lack of activity, not all of them. Our group is going to support this non-legislative proposal because it seems fair to us, it seems fair to us and it seems necessary to us. In addition, we have given enough arguments to show that it is unfair that these veterinary services, that these veterinary clinics are charging that percentage many times even to older people who need a pet dog that devotes special attention to them, which is one more of the family. You cannot apply a VAT as if it were a luxury item because neither dogs nor cats are luxury items, in many cases they are necessary. We will support this proposal and hope that the next Government, whoever it was, will carry out what we are proposing here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u75	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Veterinary College: peace and good. You can't start another way on October 4th a speech in this room. No day more appropriate than the day of St. Francis to make this proposition, no doubt. Nothing as appropriate for a liberal party as ours as voting in favour of a tax cut. Nothing so appropriate for many parties, in the middle of the pre-campaign - or supposed pre-campaign, because some of us are not willing to get to this - as to propose a tax reduction. This is well known by Brother Mariano, who is not here today. [[Laughter]] But we, apart from a liberal party, are a sensible party, we are a party that believes that we cannot make parceled offers, sectoral offers, sector by sector, when this country has been about to get a fine for its excessive deficit; when this country has a lot of tax reform to do, but it must be done together; when this country does not even have a government, it has neither budgets nor a government. We are in favour of doing things little by little. It is true that the proposal gives a fairly sensible argument and we will try to conclude whether the argument demonstrates a state of urgent need to take such a sectoral measure as this. We'll talk about people first, after animals, after things, like my mother said. First of all, speaking of people, talking about diseases, talking about zoonoses, I want to say that this has simply not happened; that is, the reports of national epidemiological bulletins or the national report of Charles III on microbiology do not indicate that there has been an increase in zoonoses or that there has been an increase in hydratidosis or much less of rabies, of which there has been only one case. However, in reviewing these reports we have found something of interest to the proposing group, to the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, especially because it happens in its area: there has been a tremendous increase in diseases of sexual transmission - of gonocotia, of syphilis - in Catalonia, in the health area of Catalonia, in the health area of Barcelona. It is reflected in their own epidemiological reports. Allow me to give you one piece of advice: perhaps it would be better to review sexual relations a little more and not so much international ones; that is, a little less embassies and a little more health plans might be good. [[Applauds]] Let's talk after the animals. It is also argued in the proposal that there has been an increase in animal abandonment. This is simply not true. Since 2008, the Affinity Foundation has recorded a slow decline in animal abandonment, which has not been interrupted by the rise in VAT. It is true that the decline is slow, it is true that we have to do many things, it is true that we have to pursue this scourge of animal abandonment, but it is not true that the rise in VAT has led to an increase in animal abandonment. Finally, we will talk about other things, and briefly, because it has already been explained before. Both Veterindustria and VENS or the National Institute of Statistics show that over the past two years there has been an increase in the activity of clinics, an increase in the sales of pharmaceutical products and an increase in profits. It is true that the 2012 tax increase was an absolute disaster and that we propose to reform it, but it is not only that the tax on veterinary clinics was reformed; it also became a luxury to read a book or go to the cinema; it became a luxury to go to the hairdresser - although in my case it is obvious - and it became a luxury even to die - funeral services are also at 21% VAT - and I remind you that dying, far from being a luxury, is an act of inescapable necessity that at the end of our days will make us all, even the citizens' deputies, become people, what Brother Paul says. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] Therefore, what was at issue was whether there was a state of urgent need for this reform and, from our point of view, there is no such reform, and that is why we will abstain. I want to end up quoting the saint of the day, Saint Francis. Saint Francis said: Do what you need first, do what you can and soon you will find yourself doing what is impossible. Let us do what is necessary, let us give a Government to this country, let us give a budget to this country; let us do what we can afterwards, let us have a parliamentary reform and regeneration that will make this country a clean and transparent country, and perhaps then we will find ourselves doing the impossible, which is to live in peace and harmony in this Chamber with Brother Rufián and Brother Tardà. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u77	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the veterinary sector and animal protection organisations and associations who care about the animal world, we are not talking about a minor issue today; almost 50% of Spanish households have at least one pet. When we talk about the reduction of veterinary VAT, we are not talking about a small issue, but about a problem that directly affects a high percentage of our society's households and, because of its implications for public health, for the whole. Since 1 September 2012, bringing a pet to the veterinarian taxed 21 % VAT, i.e. a 13-point increase because it previously taxed 8 %. We are faced with an abusive and profoundly unfair rise that makes animals silent victims of a misguided policy and obliges people who have animals in their charge to make an economic effort that they sometimes cannot afford, leading to the renunciation of their care or even to the doomed abandonment of the animal. As has already been said, there are economic and public health reasons for claiming a reduction in veterinary VAT, but there are also moral grounds for requiring such a reduction. We are not liberal, Mr Igea, but from an economic point of view, the rise in veterinary VAT has a very small impact on the state's income. It has been estimated at some EUR 16 million. However, according to the veterinary associations themselves, it has resulted in the closure of numerous clinics with the consequent loss of jobs. I do not know where Mr Marí, the representative of the People's Party, has come from, his data, but the data from the veterinary sector that we manage speak of a decrease in sales of 22.61 % in the small animal sector between 2012 and 2013, EUR 17.64 million in losses. Regarding the theme of clinics, in 2014, according to data from the veterinary entrepreneurship, 730 pet clinics were closed and estimate that they are at serious risk of closure, dismissal or ERE around 40% of veterinary pet service companies across the state. Animal protection legislation in Spain requires that persons who have animals under their care provide them with the necessary care to maintain their health and well-being, and veterinary services are therefore a vital asset. The consequences of this measure are being seen every day in veterinary centres. What a few years ago was a warning now is, unfortunately, a reality. As a result of the increase in VAT, attention to pets and domestic animals has fallen alarmingly, drastically worsening their quality of life and well-being, which clearly endangers the control of diseases affecting them, many of which, by the way, can affect the human being. According to veterinarians, vaccinations and deworming in these animals have fallen considerably in recent years. The rise in VAT has also fostered the submerged economy and professional intrusiveness. And it is that the fact that our animals visit veterinary professionals not only has a benefit for animal health and care, but is also a guarantee for public health. It should not be forgotten that animal diseases such as leishmaniasis, teniasis and, of course, rabies are transmissible to humans. In particular, in the case of rabies, vaccination has been reduced in the last two years to values of three decades ago, with the consequent risk of recurrence of the disease. Another non-minor reason to consider this proposal positive is that it has to do with the hundreds of animal protection groups that devote their time and money to saving thousands of abandoned animals a year. Today, by the way, some of these collectives are accompanying us. It is a competence of the public administrations, but it has been assumed by these collectives in an unselfish way by the inefficiency of the different administrations in the task of providing protection to abandoned animals, as they defend all the autonomous laws of animal protection and that if it were not for these collectives they would remain alone in wet paper. These people also need this just claim. Tens of thousands of animals are rescued by NGOs, only 173,000 in 2015; all of them vaccinated, cured, dewormed and sterilized by these groups. Without a doubt, the rise in VAT on veterinary expenditure imposes even more on this humanitarian and altruistic task. I end by quoting the writer Ruth Toledo: The luxury VAT for pets means taxing the quality of emotional life, ignoring what global health means, imposing a burden on physical well-being, obviating the benefits in the development of children, punishing humans whose only company is an animal, turning animals into objects of whim, betraying a family commitment and friendship, sanctioning the only hope that brings solidarity. Luxury VAT has only brought more suffering to animals and more marginalization by hindering or preventing the most disadvantaged families from gaining access to the mutual benefit of living together with an animal and more precarious work, as it has caused less collection and therefore more dismissal. Luxury, these yes, that we cannot afford either economically or morally, because healing or caring for an injured or sick animal is a legal and moral duty. Therefore, from the United Group We can vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal by the Republican Left Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u79	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating this initiative as a result of a decision by the People's Party Government, a decision taken in 2012, to raise VAT brutally. It increased VAT by almost everything, and some services and some products in an exaggerated way. The funeral services rose 13 points, the cut flower rose 13 points, the hairdressing services rose 13 points and the veterinary services rose 13 points. A rise decided by the same government, ladies and gentlemen, and by the same minister who only two years ago said the following - surely to the People's Party bench this is striking -: By raising VAT, what will be promoted will be more tax fraud, raising VAT impoverishes people. Cristóbal Montoro, the same one that raised 13 points the VAT of an endless number of products and the general VAT. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard the justification of the People's Party: accounts have to be squared; moreover, there are excuses in Europe, something which has already been shown by another spokesman who is not so, that European legislation allows the VAT of veterinary services to be reduced. But that excuse that we are being argued for remains rather short and poor - that of having to square the accounts - when we find ourselves with a fiscal amnesty that it does is to reward those who disappoint and who have to pay more those who comply. Poor enough that argument of having to raise the VAT to collect more when, yes, they announce to us on drums and plates that the economic recovery is already here, for show it by lowering the VAT of all those services that you have cost! And it is much more curious that the spokesman of the People's Party has used all his time to talk about economic data but not on one occasion, and I have been paying attention, Mr Marí, to public health and that is the real problem that hides the 13-point rise in VAT for veterinary services, a risk to public health. A risk that we were aware of, and that is why we asked for it in 2013 in the Committee on Agriculture, where a socialist proposal was discussed to lower VAT and leave it at the reduced rate, and the roll of the absolute majority of the People's Party rejected it. We asked in 2014 to record the same initiatives in the debate on the state of the nation, presenting our resolutions on this VAT reduction for the services provided by veterinarians in their clinics, and at all times the People's Party has made deaf ears. You have not listened to the Socialist Parliamentary Group or other groups but you have not listened to the General Council of Veterinary Colleges of Spain or the Spanish Veterinary Business Confederation, whose presidents are here this afternoon and whom I would like to thank for your presence in this debate on behalf of my group and to welcome this one who is your home, the home of everyone; you and the other professionals in the sector who are with us. He said that the professionals have asked him, the political groups have asked him, but you have ignored this request. Look, Your Honor, I think we are all aware of the great work done by the veterinary community, an important work to raise awareness about responsible animal possession and health education, something fundamental to our public health, since it is they, the veterinarians, who are responsible for controlling that diseases that can transmit animals do not pass on to the human being. They therefore do an extraordinary and fundamental, I insist, task of public health. And of course, raising the VAT to the services they provide from 8 to 21%, 13 points, which means attacking that public health because there are many pet owners - it has been pointed out that almost half of the Spanish population, almost half of the households in our country have pets, 20 million pets -, and many of those owners before this rise will not be able to face treatments that are expensive, to veterinary emergencies, to surgeries, to chronic diseases, and they will have to decide between abandoning their pet, sacrificing it or giving up those veterinary services and therefore do not pass the veterinary control exposing us, as we have already warned, to this risk of public health. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. My parliamentary group will do the same as it did in 2013, 2014 and 2015, which is to ask the government to lower VAT on veterinary services. Taxes must be in order to ensure better public health services. To this end, taxes must be imposed, not to put at risk and at stake with this measure a service such as that of public health and as the service provided by veterinary professionals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u81	Mr Capdevila i Esteve, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u82	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u83	Thank you very much. - OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group on the removal of the reviewable permanent prison sentence. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u84	We turn to the next item: No bill by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, on the repeal of the reviewable permanent prison sentence. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u85	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are presenting is intended to show the political feeling of this House regarding the reviewable permanent prison sentence, that is, the opinion it deserves from both criminal policy reasons and from constitutional consensus as well as from its constitutional consideration. These three approaches are intertwined and therefore cannot be understood autonomously, but as a whole in order to be able to make a full judgment. Thus, to the extent that the penal response raises the maximum coercive manifestation of the State, it has been considered as the negative constitution. Thus, at the constituent moment and immediately thereafter, the criminal response formed part of the great consensus of the system of rights and freedoms that was established and fled from a totalitarian, unequal, disproportionate, unjust or merely remunerative criminal response and, on the contrary, a guaranteed model, governed by the principle of humanization of the penalty, which, together with manifesting the element of the danger of the accused and the sentenced person, reoriented him towards re-education and social reintegration. In this constitutional model, there is a balance between the values of prevention-retribution and rehabilitation and social reintegration. However, we believe that the reviewable permanent prison sentence breaks this constitutional consensus. It deviates dramatically from the re-educational and re-inserting purpose governed and reflected in the Constitution, to the point that the General Council of the Spanish Bar stated that it broke with one of the few laws of our democracy that has been adopted unanimously and acclamation, the General Penitentiary Law, which in perfect harmony with article 25 of the Constitution establishes the aims of re-education and reintegration. In short, we consider that this sentence substantially affects constitutional purposes, eliminating any effective expectation of reintegration and re-education. On the other hand, this penalty is one of the most important political-criminal decisions since the establishment of democracy and marks the last milestone of the constant worsening of penalties in a preferentially remunerative conception of them. But what reasons existed and existed for keeping the sentence of permanent imprisonment if we take into account that the number of more serious offences continues to decrease year by year according to successive reports of the prosecution and that we already had the harshest prison sentences in our environment and in some cases with full compliance until the passing of this sentence? Moreover, the low crime rate is not accompanied by a relatively small prison population, but on the contrary, by the highest in Europe, with long periods of detention and with a population above the age of sixty-five. For this reason, this sentence was not claimed either before or now by the lawyer, the vast majority of doctrinal studies, the security forces and bodies or by the judiciary itself, nor by the political parties, except the People's Party, for their preferentially retributive conception of criminal law. There was neither a broad consensus on their opportunity. In view of this reality, we consider that this sentence does not respond positively to the proportionality judgment required by the Constitutional Court. It says the explanatory statement that was created to strengthen confidence in the administration of justice, through predictable and fair judicial decisions. If no one claimed it, how was it claimed that their non-existence generated judicial decisions no less unjust and that they undermined citizens' confidence in justice? Nor does it imply greater security quotas, greater citizen confidence, or possibly the appropriate means of doing so. We believe that this punishment, as has been said in many forums, responds to so-called punitive populism, caused by the sensationalism of some media and in accordance with the criminal ideology of its proponent. It is not an ideal punishment, as it does not respond to strengthening trust in justice through just resolutions, but rather the opposite. Nor do we consider this to be a necessary penalty, since there are penalties in our system that are less harmful and equally effective for the purpose it was seeking. Or is it that the prison sentences we already had and have are not enough? Twenty, twenty-five, thirty-five years, and in some cases without prison benefits. Or do they not guarantee these penalties with similar effectiveness and in a less damaging way the security of the legal assets that are protected with the reviewable permanent prison? Penalties that, in fact, are already life-long, as estimated by the Supreme Court, which states: excessively prolonged detention can have irreparable effects on the personality of the prisoner, which is psychologically estimated at fifteen years. Nor do we consider it to be proportional, because it does not provide sufficient benefits in relation to damage to other property. The advantages or benefits would be the strengthening of trust in justice. They are not true, but by giving them for good, even for dialectic purposes, the damage to other assets or values in conflict would be greater. Prior to the adoption of this sentence, those who had been deprived of their liberty considered that they affected the difficult balance mentioned above. Now, the incorporation of this penalty totally unbalances these values at stake, in addition to disturbing other values, such as that of legal certainty and proportionality, in its manifestation of the prohibition of excess, as some fellow Members of this House pointed out, and claimed a need for punishment. It also makes it difficult to co-honest the principle of legal certainty and legality in its taxivity dimension, in order to avoid uncertainties and inconcretions and in its security dimension. Difficulties of co-honesting manifested in the indetermination of the temporal limit of the sanction and in the lack of graduation criteria for it, in order to establish the correspondence between the gravity of the conduct and the sanction. Finally, it harms - I am finishing, Your Honor - the constitutional principles of reintegration and re-education, given the long deadlines for effective compliance, coupled with the uncertain requirements that the sentenced person must meet. In short, we consider it to be a penalty of equivalent effect to life imprisonment, since the revision of its duration depends on a misguided procedure, based on the fallible prediction of the future conduct of the sentenced person. Ladies and gentlemen, for the above-mentioned reasons of criminal policy, basic constitutional consensus and legal-constitutional aspects, we urge this House to support the non-law proposal aimed at repealing the reviewable permanent prison sentence. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u86	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Reyes Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have brought a manual on criminal law, a manual like so many others that are used in Spanish universities. In chapter 1 it speaks of the principles and purposes of our criminal law and, inter alia, it says: one of the functions of punishment is social justice, that is, the resocialization of the offender as far as possible. Well, these principles are none other than those already contained in our Constitution, they are none other than those that have been studied by our lawyers, judges, prosecutors, professors, etc., that is, all those people who apply the law. In the last parliamentary term of the effective Government, to say the least, of the People's Party, a figure was introduced that goes against that and other principles of criminal law: the so-called permanent, reviewable prison. What they really did, using euphemism, was to introduce something that in other countries is openly recognized as life imprisonment and this denomination, this mixture of adjectives is almost a contradiction in itself. I suppose they would, but the case is, like, it's turned black on white in our Penal Code. Mr Rajoy said this at the time: there is no need to be afraid of life imprisonment if it is reviewable, a phrase very proper to our acting president, such as everything is false, except for something, or the best decision is not to make a decision. The latter, by the way, looks like it's working. These phrases are very good for a rally, for an interview, even for some they may be ingenious, but they are not adequate to include them in our legislation and not only because of that semantic contradiction, but also and above all because the content, which is tried to hide behind those words, what in practice they mean contradicts our principles, with the values inspired by our Magna Charter. As Professor Lascuraín, professor and lawyer of the Constitutional Court, says, if the sentence is permanent it is inhuman and if it is verifiable it is imprecise. It therefore violates several articles of our Constitution; in addition to going against social reintegration, it violates the principles of legal certainty and legality. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well. It is a life sentence in every rule and, curiously, in those European countries where it is openly called, without caps, it is more favorable for the sentenced person than our permanent, reviewable prison. Here the penalty could be reviewed at twenty-five or thirty-five years and in those other countries it could be suspended, than not to review, much earlier, at fifteen or twenty years. It is curious that when this law was processed, the People's Party received no support from the House. He received criticism from the Council of Europe, received negative reports from the General Council of the Judiciary and the General Council of the Bar and even a manifesto from 65 professors from 33 different Spanish universities. Frankly, I ask you: Have you not had any doubts about moving this initiative forward? Let me tell you that I resist believing you didn't have it. As we all know, initiatives like the one we are discussing here today have a great media impact. This country has suffered a great deal. He has suffered a great deal for the crimes associated with this sentence. We have many victims who suffer continuous pain and for some it is already inconsolable. I really ask you, please, not to play with the pain of these victims, to always show them our support and I assure you that this support is not limited to changing an article of a law. Twenty-five reforms of our Criminal Code have been made in twenty-five years. Let us stop making an ideology with him and using him for electoral purposes. Is it so difficult to sit down as long as it takes to reach agreements and consensus that will determine the future of our country? I think it's possible, and from Citizens we've proved it. Let us stop trying to impose and dialogue. Dialoging means listening, ladies and gentlemen. Let us listen to each other and also to the experts. Let us listen in general to society as a whole. We are debating here a non-law proposal to change an article of the Criminal Code but, as we all know, it will have no legal effect. For us this is not the most appropriate formula and, therefore - among other things - we have tabled an amendment. We want what is being debated here today, something that removes the foundations of our criminal law and upsets the values that inspire our Constitution, to be approached in a calm and calm manner, counting on the opinion of all and, in particular, on the opinion of the experts.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u88	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u89	I'm done, President. Let us not get lost in electoral attitudes that lead only to sterile or opportunistic decisions. Let us seek among all that the ancient Romans called the fas, justice with capitals, the just, and let us make our jeus, the rules that we adopt here, look more and more like the fas every day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u90	Thank you very much. In the course of fixing positions, I have the floor in the first place, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this initiative for the following reasons. First, we do not believe that the reviewable permanent prison is an undemocratic legal response, as the proponents say. It would be as much as calling anti-democratic Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Greece, Italy, Austria, Switzerland or Denmark, which have this same figure in their respective penal codes. We have not heard today criticizing or calling all these countries totalitarian for having this same regulation; nor have we heard it in the previous debates or will we hear it. Secondly, we do not share the claim that this is an unconstitutional penalty. It is endorsed by the reports of the Council of State, the Fiscal Council and the General Council of the Judiciary. The European Court of Human Rights has never, in its judgements, declared it an inhumane sentence or violated - as the proponents know - the Statute of the International Criminal Court. Third, it does not mean - as some falsely repeat - a life sentence, because it is allowed - it is true that a pre-determined time has passed - a continuous follow-up of the resocialization of the sentenced person. Ladies and gentlemen, our prison system ensures that the degree of re-education of convicted persons is assessed with all the guarantees for their reintegration. Fourthly, we believe that it is a penalty proportionate to the extreme gravity of the exceptional conduct it punishes, and we are not the only country that believes it so. Criminals such as Kubati, sentenced to over one thousand two hundred years in prison, or Inés del Río, who killed 23 people, with this figure would not have been released after twenty-five years in prison. It's true. Is that a severe penalty? Yeah. In addition, it seeks to be a deterrent to very specific and, as I say, more limited offences than in other legislation: multiple murders, murders of minors or particularly vulnerable persons, murders linked to other sexual assaults, magnicide, crimes against humanity, genocide, terrorist crimes, etc. In addition, we do not believe that it is against the dignity of these supercriminals, nor do we share the last mention they make of the irreparable possibilities of a miscarriage of justice. For all these reasons and as a democratic, constitutional, proportionate and guaranteed penalty, we will not vote in favour of your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u92	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u93	Euskal Herria Bildu supports the repeal of the proposed reviewable permanent prison or, by name, the life imprisonment. We believe that its incorporation into the Penal Code was a step further in the anti-democratic drift of the State, which strives to respond with imposition and repression to any kind of questioning of the economic, political or social order established after the fascist dictatorship, jumping to this end all the basic European principles of human rights and eventually producing in its repressive and vindictive obsession legal architectures of all kinds to extend prison sentences, to impose double penalties by not applying the guidelines on penalties and an endless number of actions that are fortunately denounced and annulled by the European courts, as happened with the Parot doctrine. An obsession that has no justification, if we look at the data that point to one of the lowest crime rates in the whole European Union, and that are more due to the obsession to impose on a police public order basis a unique vision of things by choosing to define the social sector to pursue in order to then make a suit tailored for its criminalization. Instead of justice, revenge is sought. At Euskal Herria we know a little bit about that, and we are committed to putting an end to the exceptional legislation adopted ex-professional so that we can move on to a more guaranteed ordinary legislation. And it is that the 2015 reform made the 2010 code more stringent and less secure, which in turn had made the 2003 code more stringent and less secure, which in turn had made the 1995 code more stringent and less secure, which paradoxically had made the 1973 code more stringent and less secure, that is, the Franco code, although then they had the Military Court to execute executions. In conclusion, I will make a reflection that we want to share with the proponents. Euskal Herria Bildu does not approve this proposal in accordance with what he says or stops saying in the 1978 Constitution, he does so in favour of human rights and the defence of freedoms. That is so, with the desire to be able to design in the near future a Penal Code that responds to a Constitution of its own and not to a tax and not supported by the majority of the population of Euskal Herria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u94	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Ciuro i Buldo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Today, in the XII Legislature, in 2016, we will try to remedy a mistake, a serious mistake, that the People's Party, the majority group, committed in this case, when the X Legislature ran, early 2015. He therefore makes two legislatures. That is, in less than a year two legislatures, two electoral processes. A fact that remains forever in the annals of the ridiculous Europeans until now and likely to be improved, since I am afraid that the desire to win for 5 to 0 of the People's Party will open us up to a third election, and it would already be three in a year. One more example of the inability to manage the political differences that you all have and that you intend to resolve on the basis of telling citizens that they do not know how to vote and that, please, a little more is used. As Enric Juliana would say, to vote, to vote, to amend. In fact, having reached this point, perhaps it would not be necessary to enter into the substance of the proposal, but having found the ridiculous anthological of Spanish policy, above all out of respect for the proposing group and because of the importance of the content of the non-legislative proposal, I would like to tell you that we will indeed enter into the substance of the question and announce our yes. A yes, to the repeal of life imprisonment, a yes because such barbarity was introduced through a procedure of reform of the Penal Code that was a violation in every rule of parliamentarism and the procedure of parliamentar style Juan Palomo. Yes, because it also violates modern criminal law and the codes that contain it, in which it is established that the meaning of punishment consists in the treatment and resocialization of criminals and disassociates the meaning of punishment from something as unchristian as revenge. We will give our yes, because the European Court of Human Rights states that any person deprived of his or her liberty must have a sufficiently reasonable knowledge of when his or her deprivation of liberty will end. In conclusion, I would like to say that the reviewable is a pure euphemism, since such a review is based on criteria of absolute discretion and judicial arbitrariness. We will say yes because such a punitive measure suffers in addition to the vice of unconstitutionality, as it violates the resocializing purpose of penalties and the prohibition of cruel and inhuman treatment and punishment. As I say, we will vote yes to the repeal of life imprisonment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u97	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Left will vote in favour of the non-law proposal by the Basque Nationalist Party calling for the repeal of the reviewable permanent prison sentence, euphemism used to talk about life imprisonment. It was introduced by the reform made through the Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 November, amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. The Criminal Code expresses the values of a society, what it deserves protection, and it does so from a double perspective: what a society understands as relevant and deserves maximum protection, which in this case includes it in the Criminal Code; what legal assets it wants to protect a society. On the other hand, the values that inspire criminal sanctions when they are violated, when the legal assets under criminal protection are attacked. It is true - and we will all agree - that the legal assets worthy of criminal protection have been changing over time, as well as the sanction; questionable is whether in these times the reforms and therefore what legal assets have been included in the Penal Code - what sanctions share the violation of these criminal types and therefore the violation of the legal asset - answer or not to the needs of the twenty-first century. That said, the question that we should all ask ourselves is what role the sentence of deprivation of liberty should play. Vindicative? Or should this, on the other hand, be aimed at rehabilitation, reintegration and resocialization? Esquerra Republicana considers that the introduction of the permanent prison reviewable - euphemism, as he said, which is used not to talk about life imprisonment or life imprisonment - was in the heat of demands that are not social, but that are sensationalistic, sponsored by certain media - what the jurists and penalists call punitive populism - and their programs; television programs that generate and generate a fictitious social alarm, and that have resulted in a genuine harassment of the rehabilitative and resocializing function of the sentence. The reform was due to the orchestrated campaign to promote the punitive role of punishment, punishment and vindication. By the way, social alarm fictitious, citizen insecurity that is not real in attention to moderates, rather low crime rates existing in the Spanish State, and which contrast with the high rates of prison population, derived by the way from a very harsh Penal Code. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u98	One second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u99	And, as I was saying, a very harsh Penal Code. We should sometimes wonder who ends up in prison serving very long sentences. The reform was carried out despite a steady downward trend over time, as it said, in crime rates, a trend that has been dragging in the past six years. The Spanish State is currently located among the States of the European Union where the longest periods of stay are given in a prison. He pointed all this out to say why we do not agree with the so-called permanent reviewable prison, why Esquerra Republicana opposes the permanent reviewable prison. In short, it is difficult to reconcile it with the provisions of article 25 of the Constitution, where the role of the sentence - in this case the deprivation of liberty - must be degenerate: rehabilitative, resocializing, reinsertion. It is difficult to reconcile, to combine the sentence of permanent imprisonment that can be reviewed with these principles of care, because if it is not known whether to leave or to die in prison, neither the convicted person nor the prison itself will make any effort and will not be motivated to advance in rehabilitation. Two, this is an indeterminate sentence, the duration of which is not known, and this leads to a violation of the principle of legal certainty in article 9 of the Spanish Constitution. I'm done, President. By the way, the representatives of the People's Party should recover the speeches of their Minister of Defence, Mr Trillo, when he was a spokesman on matters of justice, when he blasphemed the 1995 Penal Code because, he said, it contained indeterminate penalties. It is also a degrading and inhumane punishment prohibited by article 15 of the Constitution. The introduction of a reviewable permanent prison sentence is not comparable to those in Europe. It is introduced more harshly than in other States of the European Union, because the revision of the sentence at twenty-five years and in the cases of terrorism between twenty-eight and thirty-five years is proposed. One point: the maximum penalty of deprivation of liberty before the reform was 30 years for ordinary crimes and 40 years for terrorist crimes. Don't you think that thirty or forty years is an adult life? For Esquerra Republicana to return to these postulates is to place Spain in the 19th century. The reviewable permanent prison becomes useless and inhumane. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u100	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Yllanes Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the statement of reasons for Organic Law 1/2015, which was the one that introduced into the Penal Code's penal catalogue what we are going to call from the beginning a reviewable life sentence, established as grounds for introducing social demand, and it is also a way for citizens to regain confidence in the administration of justice. Recognize with me that this confidence has probably been weakened after seeing the shameful return of the comrade of the minister of the Interior in office, Daniel de Alfonso, to the Provincial Court of Barcelona. Having listened to the arguments behind the reform, we find that we can think that the previous legislation was extremely benevolent, but quite the contrary. The longest-lived prisoner in Spanish history who served a total of thirty-six years in prison did not commit one of the crimes that are punishable under the Penal Code with the penalty of life imprisonment that can be reviewed. What is the real reason for the reform introduced in the Penal Code by the People's Party, taking advantage of its absolute majority? What has been called punitive populism. First, to silence the social alarm that cases of extreme gravity and which were important from the media point of view caused. It should be said that the latest reforms of the Criminal Code had names and surnames. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u102	Wait a minute, Mr. Yllanes. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. The speaker was practically not heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Another reason was to respond to the demands of certain groups of victims whose motives were highly respectable, but who could never justify criminal law taking any shortcut. It is clear that the European Court of Human Rights left it to us by giving effect to the so-called Parot doctrine established by the Supreme Court. What is the result of this punitive populism? No less than the automatic tightening of penalties for crimes that were already punished with enormously serious penalties in the Penal Code, while it remains extremely benevolent - and this is a reform that we have pending - with those crimes related to corruption. To speak of this precisely today constitutes a sarcasm, because today the trial of the Gürtel plot has begun. [[Rumors]] I hope that the legislator would have responded with the same immediacy and with the same guarantee spirit to social demands such as the protection of the right to housing or the protection of the right to work that is not precarious. On the contrary, what the legislator did was to introduce more cuts and more inequality, which is also the result of this reform of the Criminal Code. Moreover, we are clear or suspect that the intellectual author of this reform of the Criminal Code must be the same person who has inspired the reform that on corruption was contained in the investiture pact signed by Citizens and the People's Party, and who has given rise to that legal aphorism that has been so successful and that says that it is not the same thing to put your hand in. But if it is worrying that it is punitive populism that somehow inspires the reform, much more serious is that the reform violates constitutional precepts, and the penalty of reviewable life imprisonment is contrary to article 10 of the Spanish Constitution, which states that the dignity of the person is a foundation of the political order and of social peace, and it is also contrary to article 15 of the Constitution, which states that inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is prohibited. It also violates article 25.2 of the Constitution, which provides that custodial sentences shall be directed towards re-education and social reintegration. It seems a lie that those who are handing out cards of constitutionalists around do not have the slightest problem in making such reforms, and yet systematically oppose the initiation of a real debate on the Constitution. This objective of resocialization is absolutely impossible with the time limits laid down in the Penal Code, first to enter the third grade, which reach the age of twenty-two, and second to suspend the execution of the rest of the sentence, which extends to the age of thirty-five. In the face of resocialization, the introduction of a reviewable life sentence is pure retribution, ignoring even other purposes that the penalties must have, such as special prevention and general prevention. Therefore punitive populism and violation of the Constitution are two solid reasons for the United Confederal Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to support the legislative proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group to exclude from the Penal Code's list of penalties the penalty of reviewable life imprisonment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u104	For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this very morning, a few hours ago, we discussed this very issue in the Committee on Justice, and I am telling you that the Socialist Group's initiative has prospered. We therefore urge the Government to remove from the list of penalties in our Criminal Code the so-called reviewable permanent prison. The truth is that only his name leaves us perplexed, that is, how something that is permanent is described as verifiable, or one or the other. This deliberate darkness is a way of doing politics, so we are not optimistic. This Government preaches the need for a national justice strategy, although with the same intensity and decision its parliamentary group has passed in the 10th Legislature, without the slightest concession to dialogue or consensus, countless laws. We already talked about this issue in the legislative past and today we come back to it, as in that Harold Ramis movie of the day of the marmot, or if you prefer, as the myth of Sisyphus. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the hurricane, which symbolizes the eternal cycle of things, also the eternal effort, the eternal struggle or the futile effort. I would like not to repeat myself, especially when the constitutional arguments have already been made, both in the appeal before the Constitutional Court and in this very rostrum, which I take for granted. If I want to spend these short minutes arguing rejection from the basic principles that have allowed the construction of a modern criminal law. I do not intend to lift from his eternal rest illustrious like Beccaría or Lardizábal, but his memory, at least today, seems more bound than ever. Let us not forget that, according to the preamble to Organic Law 1/2015, this penalty or punishment is imposed and justified to give an extraordinary response. Look, ladies and gentlemen, at what Professor Hasemer said: Criminal law has evolved into a criminal law of defence against dangers. But he quickly emphasized the need to reconcile these aspirations with the need to preserve the fundamental traditions of criminal law and in particular its guaranteed rigour. The group that I represent fully shares those ideas. We are talking about a life sentence in every rule, and that you to save the letter of the Constitution call undetermined punishment in its duration, but really what you allow after many years - always more than twenty-five - is that it remains in suspense for a certain time. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that with a system like ours, of full and effective enforcement of sentences, it will not be easy to accommodate that supposed revision. It would be sufficient to review the requirements of article 92 of the Criminal Code. Nor is it necessary to mention - something has been said - the criminogenic effects of the sentence, for it is enough to say that in some cases only one murder is enough for the penalty to be reached, and given the scale of the penalty, little or no penological significance will have the successive deaths. But let's get back to the beginning, ladies and gentlemen. Let me make a little history, and it is constant in the history of the tradition of political thought to highlight the element of force as the origin of States. But this force needs to be surrounded by a qualification: legitimate. And this legitimation can only be achieved by respect for ethical values: freedom, justice and equality. I am aware that the definition of criminal law and its legal framework lives in a constant tension between what is the principle of minimal intervention and the growing need for guardianship in an increasingly complex society. But I am left with what Professor Von Hirsch says, when he states that an extreme politicization of criminal policy today invades us, so that as long as crime rates do not rise, so does the impatience of the public demanding punishment. And there is always some politician willing to give satisfaction. You forget the material limits, the criminal political limits that the punitive power of the State has. Limits on the other hand that affect not only their conditions or forms of exercise, but their own content and extent. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are aware of something obvious and it is that criminal law has changed. It has changed as our own society has changed, security is a necessary claim, but it has become a pretence to which the State, and in particular criminal law, is supposed to always respond. But this serves you to justify a different and growing response from the punitive power of the State that always translates into the same. Don't forget one thing, ladies and gentlemen, the Criminal Code is an evaluative norm. The most important if I am rushed, but it is an evaluative norm, and it also defines what criminal law should be in a State. And of course norms, principles, such as the principle of minimal intervention, but also resocialization of the offender, become basic elements. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the state's response and it can only be certain if it knows the criminal reality, knows how to articulate the mechanisms of criminal policy to stop them, and recover the social body from our society. Ladies and gentlemen, in this I share the words of Vives Antón, when he points out that today, because of the despair that seems to take hold of the situation, it is more necessary than ever to express freedom in the face of fear. But you prefer to follow the path of an exaggerated criminal law. That is why, in view of these considerations, the Socialist Parliamentary Group shares the non-legislative proposal submitted for consideration this afternoon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u106	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, repeat elections, new legislature and repeated debate on the reviewable permanent prison. No news. None of what we have been hearing since 2013, because there are groups in this House that continue to make the same populist and demagogic speech on the first day, the one they were doing against the preliminary draft law that was known on those dates. A discourse based on the deliberate omission of reality, as I will try to prove. That certainly allows some to work less, because you once again ask a government in office to do what it has vetoed to do by law, that is, to refer a bill to the House. And yet you have not done what is in your hand to do, beyond demagogy: work. Work a little bit and present a bill in the House. The rest is smoke; media smoke, but nothing but smoke, ladies and gentlemen. Special emphasis has been placed on describing the term of permanent imprisonment as unconstitutional. This is expressed by the unconstitutionality appeal filed by several groups and already admitted to proceedings on 27 July 2015. However, it now seems, in the light of the proposals discussed today in the Commission and in plenary, that some do not want the High Court to stand. We are looking for a short cut in the non-law proposal to resolve the issue, perhaps because they have been late reviewing constitutional jurisprudence and now they know that since 2004 they have admitted extradition of persons who could be sentenced to sentences similar to the reviewable permanent prison, and if so, it is because they understood that there was no inhuman or degrading punishment in those laws. And it is that one thing is the speeches and the other the regulation in force; regulation that does not renounce, however much you strive, the reintegration of the sentenced person, but provides for the revision of the sentence and the possibility of obtaining freedom. This will logically depend on the favorable prognosis of reinsertion and the nature of the offences, but the legal foresight exists, as there are, as much as you systematically silence it in your on-line caricature of the permanent prison reviewable, the prison benefits, and how there is - although no one mentions it either - the third prison grade or the system of advance permits and exits, applicable in some cases, by the way, since the eight years of imprisonment. The mechanisms of resocialization and reintegration and the regime of progression of degree are the same - nobody has highlighted it here - in the permanent prison reviewable as in other long-term sentences. Probation or control measures, always with a horizon of freedom, which is a constitutional requirement, are also necessary. I do not believe that, without meeting such a requirement, the permanent reviewable prison would have achieved the endorsement of the high-ranking State bodies, the endorsement of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council or the Council of State; certainly, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, with the favourable vote of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero or Mrs Fernández de la Vega. Perhaps you at this time would be well advised to take your opinion into account; I do not know whether it is easy or not at this time, but you would like to know the reasons why you gave your approval then. And what does international law say? What does human rights law say? Well, he admits life imprisonment as long as there is a possibility of release. That is the reality of international law and human rights law. They do so by international instruments signed by Spain and ratified with almost unanimous enthusiasm in this House, perhaps forgetting the convenience of some at the moment. This is the case with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the United Nations in 1989. Article 37 (a) of the Convention admits life imprisonment with the possibility of release for children under eighteen years of age; in force in Spain and adopted - I insist - by the UN in 1989. This is also the case with the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which has been in force since July 2002. Articles 77 and 110 provide for life imprisonment when justified by the gravity of the crime or the circumstances of the convicted person, with a review period of twenty-five years. This deadline sounds to me, I don't know about you. Now, of all those who today want to call for the repeal of the permanent reviewable prison, tell me, have any of you criticized, opposed or denounced the ratification by Spain of the Convention on the Rights of the Child or the Rome Statute? Where's your consistency, your memory perhaps? What capacity do they have to reconcile this clamorous silence with so much populist demagogy, as they have done today around the Penal Code? They talk about the European Convention on Human Rights, but forget the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, because it is a matter of the reality that does not disassemble the topics of the speech to you. This jurisprudence is supported by figures similar to the reviewable permanent prison. It did so in the Meixner case against Germany in 2009, in the Bodein case against France in 2014 or in the Vinter case and others against the United Kingdom in 2013. In this case, in the Vinter case, the court asserts, in accordance with article 3 of the Convention, that it prohibits inhuman or degrading punishment, the establishment of a life sentence or an indefinite term for the protection of society. In other words, British legislation admits something that goes far beyond the regulation of permanent prison that can be reviewed in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, some who look at Iran or Venezuela - and I do not want to think about the criminal law of those countries - would do well to look at Europe and what is in force in Europe. Some who know by heart the European Court's judgment against the Parot doctrine should perhaps reread some others that disassemble their allegations against the permanent prison reviewable. And the truth is that our current Penal Code reserves this penalty for the most horrendous murders, for which more pain and disgust cause Spanish society. The Spaniards, the people, think it can't be the same as killing one in 20. Convictions should take into account the scope, pain caused or impiety of terrorists or those who commit crimes against minors or helpless persons, those who commit magnicides or those who attack life and sexual freedom simultaneously. These are behaviors that they receive - and I'm finishing, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u108	Your Honor, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u109	I'm done. They are behaviours that have the highest social reprimand and deserve the highest criminal reprimand, a penal response proportionate to their seriousness and the social alarm they raise. Ask the people, the citizens. Some seek in these debates the applause of some sector of the doctrine, and we believe it is more important to maintain the confidence of the citizens in the legal order, and the citizens ask for answers and not resignation from the crime; perhaps that is why, according to the CIS, three out of four Spaniards - many more than those who vote for the PP, ladies and gentlemen - support the permanent prison that can be reviewed. You can devote yourselves to the melancholy revision of the doctrine, but there is no doctrine that justifies resignation or passivity in the face of the most serious crimes. In you doctrine is a pretext for inactivity. We have preferred to provide Spanish society with instruments that respond proportionately, constitutionally, from the principles of criminal law, from respect for human rights and from international legality, but respond, to criminal conduct of the gravity of those today punished by the reviewable permanent prison sentence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u110	I ask Mr Legarda Uriarte whether his group accepts the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u111	No, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on measures to paralyse the implementation and development of the place, with a view to repealing it and repealing the Royal Decree 310/2016, which regulates the final assessments of that and Bachillerato. [[HOMS LORD]] [[ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 8/2013 OF 9 DECEMBER, FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATIONAL QUALITY]] [[File number 162/000113]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u113	We proceed to the non-law proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group on measures to paralyse the implementation and development of Lomce, in order to repeal it and repeal Royal Decree 310/2016 regulating the final evaluations of ESO and baccalaureate. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u114	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to everyone. [[Rumors]] In Catalonia we work to update the education system based on the international consensus on a purpose: to generate competences for life in the context of the 21st century and not the 19th century... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u115	One second. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u116	Competencies that allow our children to be independent and be able to have a satisfactory life plan. We have managed to broaden the perspective beyond the classrooms. Try to broaden the perspective beyond your offices. The education system in Catalonia operates, is under way and is being updated, and it also does so in an agreed manner; therefore, legislative stability is guaranteed. And it cannot and should not be you, a blind and broken political class, who from Madrid tell us - and also without any consensus - how we should educate, when you do not even understand something as basic and I think that as rich as education is the integration of all cultures and all languages. If our teachers, doctors, engineers or entrepreneurs exercised the same irresponsibility as you, we would now be nothing but a desert. Calling on comrade Gabriel Rufián and the tweet of the Gañet, I would say to all those monolinguals who say to bilinguals that they are trilingual - a phrase that has its origin in the green tide against the educational reform of the People's Party in the Islands that made them lose the elections - that in Catalonia that is already a past screen because in Catalonia we are full in multilingualism, since almost 60% of educational centers teach one or more non-linguistic subjects in a third or fourth language. Activate the will of change and do so already because 85% of today's work will have changed when our three-year-olds complete their studies. We have an obligation and responsibility to work to prepare our children for this new reality because we don't only educate the school, we educate the whole community. Let us do the favor of providing the educational system with capacity for updating, reaction and action because, although we are here between four walls, there is a world out there that is constantly changing. Be interested in him, be interested in reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, get out of here, go to schools, talk to all actors and then you can make laws, because learning and knowing is also dialogue. Our children have the right to learn to cultivate their personality and we have the obligation to give them all the necessary tools to achieve it. The educational project in Catalonia is based on the image of a world very different from its own and proof of this are ambitious projects such as A Escola Nova 21, the alliance for an advanced educational system in order to generate the culture of innovation and sustainable collaborative culture. This course has nearly 500 centres that have joined this project. In Catalonia we strive every day to promote equal opportunities so that not a single student stays behind. We do not leave out of the educational system those who do not have a concrete profile designed by politicians, for this we open up a multitude of possibilities, we do not send them to the waste box as you claim just by trying to be in the middle of the ranches; we do not care about the numbers, we care about them, we care about our children, our students, because, in the end, the success of all our students is what will lead us to success in all the ranches. [[Rumors]] That is why it is worth reminding you again that in Catalonia we work with consensus and collaboration...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u118	... not only of politicians and teachers, but of families, entities, foundations, associations, in short, of almost the entire educational community; quite the opposite of what is the Lomce, that the only signature it has achieved is his, that of the People's Party. A person responsible - Constitutional Court - should revoke any educational law that imposes ideologies, classism or racism and that is not written in consensus and to endure. Unfortunately, in this country, the Constitutional Court devotes its time to threatening politicians such as Francesc Homs or President Mas for doing politics. Let me also tell some of you who are concerned not to worry, because when Catalonia is an independent State, education in your country, in Spain, can be guaranteed if, as I have explained to you before, you recognize reality and give education, educators and our children the tools they need to deal with it. Do not allow the four years of the legislature to be their horizon and understand education as an investment and not as an expenditure. We must work on educational projects that open our eyes, although if you do not open them first, this country is doomed to failure. I invite you to do an exercise: don't think about the PISA reports, don't think about the international ranquins, don't think about the votes, don't think about the interests of your party, don't think about the legislature; just think about one thing: think about them, our children, our students. And ask yourself: are we proud of the educational system we have designed for you? I am very pleased that the People's Party has lost its absolute majority and wish that the rest of the political formations will help this country to be the best version of it. From the Catalan State we will be at your side because not only do we want the success of the students in Catalonia, we are interested in the success of all the students. Albert Einstein said: everyone is a genius, but if you judge a fish for its ability to climb a tree, you will live your whole life thinking it's stupid. And I'm done. The world is progressing and we need children to think creatively, independently and critically. So, if each of our children is different, why do we strive to educate them all alike? A doctor doesn't prescribe the same for all his patients because it would be an absolute disaster and an absolute disaster is what Lomce is today, which is simply and sadly the organic law for the makeup of educational quality. An educational law had never conditioned the title to an examination prioritizing content to competencies. And not only is it a disaster to what structure and educational system refers to, but it is a disaster to what we are doing with our heroes: the teachers. Do you know who the teachers are? Teachers are those who can make our children's dreams come true. And what do we do with them? We pay them badly, we cut them off and we mistreat them. And you have the little shame of increasing the defence budget by 35% each year. Forgive me, but it should be illegal for people who make such decisions to make educational laws. All of you, members of the People's Party, are suspended. To the rest of the parties I tell you that today you have the opportunity to change everything and change it already. Goodbye, Lomce. Hello, education. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u119	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u120	Thank you very much. Yesterday I got this book, First of all don't hurt, by Henry Marsh, an English neurosurgeon. [[Show the book]] It's the book of the year. A book that is exhausted, which has been named in the New York Times and in The Economist as the best book of the year; a book in which Henry Marsh reflects on the basic axiom of the medina: Primum non nocere. I mean, the first thing is not to hurt. I would have liked to give it to the minister, but he has not come - he is going to run out of books - because I think he also reflects on three issues that it is important for him to take into account. First, the need to practice empathy, to put oneself in the place of the other, to take into account the suffering you generate; secondly, the need to accept mistakes; and thirdly, the need or importance of making right decisions at specific times. In politics we are not doctors, but we should be guided by this axiom, especially on occasions and in circumstances where there is a high probability of causing damage without certainty of obtaining benefits. And this is the situation of the Lomce's revalidates. This is the situation of the actual decree of invalids that has allegedly been drawn up so as not to violate the law this summer and that what is really causing is a great situation of uncertainty and a great situation of instability. First of all, this decree has been taken from a cover and also against the entire educational community. It has against the students - I think the Canae students have come to see us -, it has against 80% of the teachers, it has against many unions, it has against many autonomous communities that say they are going to resort to it already and besides - and this is not the most serious - it has in place 400,000 families with children who have to be examined and who do not know when, how and how they are going to have to do this year's revalidation exam. We add one more aggravating factor and it is that the worst is that it has in place the minister, who has drawn a real decree that will not know if he will be able to finish in time and form because in the State Council there are three vacancies that he will not be able to name if he is in office. Therefore, brutal chaos has been generated. We would like to be able to vote in the GNP tabled by the Catalan Democratic Party in favour of the first point, in favour of the point calling for the repeal of the decree of invalids. We would very much like to be allowed to vote on points, and we would also like to ask the Minister and the People's Party to comply with the agreement they signed with us in August this year, where they pledged to freeze the Lomce's implementation of what was not in place. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, we do not know whether or not it will be possible to vote for points, but I want to make it clear that Citizens want the paralysis of the Lomce and want the repeal of the decree of invalids. We ask the Minister to amend the 2008 decree and allow further access to the university as was done, adapting the evidence to the current baccalaureate. We would also very much have liked to have been allowed - we have already been told that no - a proposed amendment rather than a negative one, because here it seems that what is fashionable is to repeal and repeal, but to repeal for nothing, as some would say, is foolishness. We have proposed to include our amendment to create a national pact for education, an open pact, where the educational community is represented, where all the autonomous communities are represented, where a real consensus can be reached to generate better education for our students. Regrettably, some groups are a bit nervous about the issue of nationalism, as well as the issue of pacts. I don't know to what extent we're going to be able to get a new education law if we don't even agree to talk. [[Applauds]] In Citizens we are not doctors, we are not neurosurgeons, but we are very aware that the decisions we make in these atriums and in these commissions have real effects on the lives of many people. Therefore, we do want to apply the Marsh principle, which is the hypocritical principle of first and foremost not doing harm. In this sense, we would like to include that disposition to avoid frantism and to really get to work for something that is very important and that is affecting and distressing many people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u121	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u122	Firstly, as a representative of the public school as a teacher, I would like to greet the whole educational community; to greet the tides, which have fought so hard to defend public education; to greet the trade unions, which are defending the improvement in public school and the rights of workers. I would also like to greet the various teachers and teachers of the different levels of education, the student and also, of course, the parents of students. I would not like to miss the opportunity to come here without denouncing the cut that the People's Party has applied this summer to students with special educational needs. They have rectified the last day the students had to apply for the scholarship, but the damage was already done by cutting the scholarships to the student with special educational needs. I would not like to go through this rostrum without denouncing this new attack by the People's Party on the most disadvantaged sectors. We also greet students from the United States who are fighting against 3+2, who are fighting the rise in university fees, against the disabled, and who are fighting and are mobilizing for the increase in scholarship amounts. In Spain, expenditure on education accounts for 4.2% of GDP, compared to 6.2% of the European average. We are clearly below, we are behind Europe and yet the People's Party government, Mr Rajoy's government is committed under the stability programme to reduce education spending to 3.9% in 2019. This is the map of public education in Spain. We have an account of what has happened in recent years with public education, the example of the Community of Madrid, where the Government of the People's Party has achieved through the union of public schools that more than half of the pupils attend private and concerted schools. We have the example of the Valencian Community, where while Rita - the best, according to President Mariano Rajoy -, Camps and company erupted the public arks was famous for the news of students in barracks. We also have the example of the Community of Castile-La Mancha, where the number of teachers has been reduced, schools have been closed in rural areas and classrooms have been abolished in public schools. And in this school year, education comes with more cuts. On 3 September, a large demonstration of the Mareas collective for public education took place in Andalusia, Seville, with great participation. In it we were represented the three deputies of the province of Sevilla de Unidos Podemos. There was a great influx of teachers in defense of public education and against the cuts of the Andalusian Junta, which are leaving out hundreds of interims and interims, as well as cuts in various educational programs, such as bilingualism, and the suppression of classrooms in public school. That same PSOE of Andalusia, that same Susana Díaz who wants to close the doors to the possibility of an alternative government, with this majority that today again will say no to the policies of the PP and Lomce. [[Applauds]] I would also like to point out that Lomce is a deeply ideological law. It is not merely an educational law, but goes beyond it. It seeks to perpetuate a class system, where the most disadvantaged are cannon meat to reach the labour market under precariousness and inequality. No one escapes that the system of revalidation and advancement of itinerary seeks to expel the children of workers from public school. I am convinced that Lomce ideologists know that academic language in the most disadvantaged families is acquired through teaching in public school. There are children who come to school with the language learned because their families have education, but there is a social majority, the popular layers, that develop the academic language over the years. We all know examples of students who do not stand out in primary education and who then score well in both high school and university, so through the Lomce it is intended to be an elitist education and to expel the popular sectors of public education through the revalidation and the earlier itinerary. United We can welcome the initiative of the Catalan Democratic Party. We have tabled an amendment that reflects the work done by the education sectors, which was reflected in the document by another educational policy. This document is supported by broad sectors of the educational community: it is signed by unions, more than thirty associations and parties represented here, such as Esquerra Republicana, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, Podemos and United Left. We subscribe to the document for another educational policy. We have tabled an amendment to the Catalan Democratic Party's GNP, which we do not know if the People's Party is going to overthrow us, which talks about implementing urgent measures to alleviate the cuts and negative policies of the Lomce in this course. It's got three blocks. The first seeks to curb the increase in school failure and the early expulsion of students from public school. The second seeks to restore democracy in the centres by repealing the new Lomce formula of choice of directors in the educational centres in order to reinvigorate the school councils, which represent democracy in the centres. And a third block that bets on equity in education and suggests that there are no more cuts, the reversal of the cuts made, not to the suppression of classrooms in public school and the recovery of teacher ratios, schedules and working conditions. That is why, from the United States We want to be in Parliament the voice of the people who are on the street claiming and we want to bring the demands of the social movements and sectors of the educational community so that this Parliament does not represent only a minority or an elite of the population, but represents the social movements and the educational community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u123	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Cruz Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment we are presenting is of a formal nature and distinguishes two types of action: those which are the responsibility of a government in office, such as the immediate halting of the Lomce implementation schedule and the normative provisions that have been adopted for its development and implementation, and those which that government cannot carry out, such as the repeal of organic law as such. In this way, if accepted, the first part of the non-legislative proposal that we are discussing can be understood to be addressed to the Government in office. Apart from this issue, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Catalan Democratic Party and will do so for strict reasons of coherence. The one known as the Revival Decree, adopted on 29 July by the Government in office of the People's Party, constitutes the last episode of the development of the Lomce. A law - it should be remembered - that you, at the time, when you enjoyed an absolute majority, went forward in solitary with the opposition of all the groups of the House and the frontal rejection of the educational community. They carried it out - it is also timely to highlight - instead of accepting the educational pact that Angel Gabilondo had proposed to them when he was at the head of the ministry. This was a pact containing important agreements, which was achieved thanks to great efforts and great resignations by the various political forces and sectors involved. But you, who are filled with the word consensus only when you think you can get some benefit, did not care for a great consensus pact. Convince yourself; rejection of Lomce is not a whimsical rejection by a sector of the educational community or a particular force. Even the most skilful strategist would not have been able to organize such a broad agreement against this law. It is another very different thing; its is a retrograde law that returns us to Spain of the seventy. A law which, in a certain sense, places you on the right of the very Villar Palasí, minister in the last years of Francoism who already advocated the abolition of the invalids in the baccalaureate and promoted school orientation. The revalidates constitute, in fact, the culmination of segregation and the inequality of opportunities imposed by Lomce. The invalids, contrary to what you like to repeat, are not mere final evaluations; they are mechanisms that fulfil the function of designing the redistribution of the student population according to mercantilist criteria, anticipating the future location of students in the labour market. Thus, their statements that they intend to lead the fight against school drop-out mean in practice that they will try to send the basic FP to the most backward students, who need more support. As, on the other hand, you have fiercely cut back on aid for diversity and support policies, the potential for degradation and consequent destabilisation of the FP are enormous. In short and by right: with your educational policies you contribute with wisdom to chronising the social gap. It is urgent to find a way out of this crazy situation in which you, against wind and tide - even if it might be more appropriate to say impassive the adamant - are committed to persevering. We are going to vote no to the disabled ultimately because we do not share the PP's strategy. We do not believe that equity is the obstacle to achieving a higher quality of the education system. What is the alternative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group? The attempt to agree on the educational pact that our society is demanding. As we have already said at the time, we believe that the right place to move forward in this direction would be a parliamentary subcommittee to reach a social and political pact for education that would allow the development of a new consensual legal framework. This initiative, by the way, has already been registered by our parliamentary group. I'm done. I said at the beginning of my speech that the Socialist Group will support this non-legislative proposal for strict reasons of coherence. Now I realize that it is imperative that I mutter my own words. Of course I do not intend to accuse you of incoherent, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, at all; on the contrary, you are perfectly consistent with your purposes. That is precisely the most worrying thing about what has been happening with education in this country since they are in the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u125	Thank you very much. The Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, has the floor in the first place in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u126	Thank you, Madam President. This is not the first time, or perhaps the last time, that we are talking about this in this Chamber. I don't know if this legislature is going to be the last, but it's the first and perhaps the last. In any case, what we are going to tell has already been said many times. The no to the Lomce of my group is a no to the Lomce even when she was getting pregnant, when the Government of the People's Party, in its solitude, wanted to make a bill - which she did - without consulting anyone, without consenting to anyone, and so it was. Obviously, it came out with its absolute majority but also with an absolute answer from the political groups of the educational community of the sector and the autonomous communities; in the case of Euskadi, totally and head-on opposite. We could do several headlines on why we are against it, although today it is not about whether we are in favour or against Lomce, but rather that the Catalan Democratic Party calls for two clear issues with which we agree and, if I am not mistaken, there is a transaction which, if approved, brings together three points with which we also agree in its entirety. We could say that Lomce is a law that causes lack of stability in education. The education system of the Spanish State, some of which are filled with their mouths, suffers from stability. Every government that has passed through here has made its own law - and so it has gone -, often jumping even what the Constitution itself and the statutes of autonomy say about the competences and capacity of some communities to govern their education, which is the case with Euskadi. We opposed Lomce on three fronts. First, because it fully invaded the competence of Basques in the field of education, the ability of Basques and our Government to implement their own curriculum, their own educational system in consensus with the educational community, with the powers and with society as a whole. Secondly, because it does not improve the education system, because it is a law that, instead of moving forward, recedes, because it does not take on the concept of competence matter, it has an ancient, archaic view of what education is, and in this case I do believe that we should avoid the very subject of revalidation. What vision is there when tests such as revalidation are being put forward to move forward? It is no longer necessary to include the formation of the national spirit and even to be in line in the courtyard at noon. In the face of this thesis, what third problem exists with this law? It generates problems, many problems in the educational community because, in addition to not convincing and not advancing, it has generated such discussion, such dissent among the people that - as far as I know - even the People's Party itself does not know what to do with this artifact. When I say that it is exclusive matter some will say: the Basques are coming with their competence. Indeed, and we will persevere until the last moment because we will not allow anyone to enter another's home. We are competent in the field of education and we will not allow this or any other law, wherever it comes from, to interfere in the capacity that the Basques have to govern our education, to make our curriculum in line with the sector, with the educational community; we will not allow any such incursion. In this sense, with the subject of the invalid has already announced, and is preparing, the approval of its own model of access to the university for next year, a way for Basques to have access to the university, regardless of what the Spanish Government does through this royal decree of which we are still waiting for the ministerial order. I would ask the PP government, at this time represented by the vice president since there is no minister, not to issue the ministerial order of the invalid because besides being a chapuza is an immense meth of a leg in educational matters. I see I'm running out of time. For all three reasons - and which we have already done during the previous parliamentary term - we are against Lomce, we are against the invalid and we warn that we will not accept any other law that has the same centralizing, uniforming spirit and with a criterion that does not respond to the social and national realities that exist at this time in the Spanish State. We will support the non-legislative proposal submitted by the Catalan Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Again we are proposed to paralyse and repeal the Lomce. This is not the first time, and as many times as it comes to this House, our group will propose, support, vote that it be repealed. It better be this one last time. Lomce is the last link in a model of political and ideological control of education; it is a model that is not repeated throughout our history most successful, in fact it always fails. Because in education there is the classroom, the center, the students, the teachers, the amps that struggle to make the mess that the legislators make the least possible. And education for all citizens has increased despite the ideological laws that have crushed them to this day. That doesn't mean that it makes teachers' lives very difficult, that it makes school life very difficult, but we're going out with Lomce or without Lomce. Since the Pidal Act, in 1845, which gave primary education to the municipalities and after a few years he de-amortized the municipalities from land by making most of them have to stop paying for school. From this comes that of: more hunger than a school teacher. A clumsy reality. First, not only does he educate school, and second, there is not only a national reality. They do not know; there is not a single national reality in Spain and, however much you try to exist, we have been over one hundred and fifty years and have not succeeded; neither will they succeed in the next four years, because Spain, if it exists, is plural. Finally, we will always have the freedom of chair, the teachers have endured more than thirty years with the freedom of chair and with this we will move forward. There is, moreover, another way to understand education in the 21st century, to defend the public model, what the French call the Republican school; to finance schools properly; to give them autonomy - not be afraid of autonomy, not only politics, but also education - and to better train teachers from the time of their entry and, above all, throughout their teaching career. But, above all, I ask the legislator to love the school and, especially, the public school, which is that of the majority. And how can you love school, how can you do it? I'll give you an example, Finland. Much has been said but very little has been done about the Finnish method. I will explain to you a trip I took ten years ago - thanks to the Barcelona Diputation - on which we find educators from all over Catalonia in Finland, when it had not yet become fashionable. What are we meeting? Good schools, good teachers. We spoke to the Finnish parliamentarians and asked them a question: What do you think has helped improve Finland's school further? A Conservative party deputy - at that time in the opposition, now in the government, always rule in coalition - said to me: Make it mandatory for all parliamentarians and public officials to send their children to public school. From there, he told me, there has been no law problem, there has been no funding problem because who loves their children more than their own parents. What parliamentarian would misfinance the education of his children? I guess it's impossible here but 'finnishing' a little more this country would do us good. By the way, in Finland Swedish is a co-official. How many Swedes are there in Finland? 6% of the population. Swedish is taught in all Finnish schools. Imagine that here it was proposed that Catalan - which speaks more than 20% of the population - should be co-official in all Spanish schools. That would be terrible. In Finland the Swedes don't want to be independent because education is better than leather and stick but you like leather and you like stick. It is therefore necessary to repeal the Lomce, to paralyse its measures in this course and to open up a process of participation open to the whole of society, to Catalans and Basques, to everything. I'll end up with a date from my grandfather. My grandfather used to say to me: Education and the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs Moneo Diez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group by trying to ensure that the statements of some of your ladies and gentlemen do not distract or hinder the objective that we should meet here today, which is nothing other than having a calm, calm, realistic and intelligent debate so that, once and for all, we can offer Spanish society an educational pact. Obviously, the initiative under discussion does not seek this, so we cannot support it. It moves again in those partisan interests which, even knowing the political moment we are experiencing and the limited powers of a functioning Government, uses education to cover a political discourse that, frankly, does not find its echo in the educational world. We are called to understand each other, that is the reality, but for this we will all, absolutely all, have to do an exercise of generosity. We are called to understand ourselves within the framework offered by the Spanish Constitution, we are called to understand ourselves in order to achieve a quality educational system, the best possible, that guarantees the same rights and opportunities to families, students and teachers, regardless of where they live or the educational centre they come to. That is the objective, not another, that marked the birth and approval of the Lomce. It is also possible that many of your ladies and gentlemen share the objective but discuss the means to carry it out. We do not believe that we possess absolute truth, so from the very beginning we offered a great covenant for education, so we continue to maintain the need for the covenant. That is why we also had no problem in including in point 78 of the agreement with Citizens the need to promote a national pact for education that can count on the consensus of the other political forces, of the educational community, of social groups. It is a pact that you will most likely see the light in this House, in a subcommittee with which the People's Parliamentary Group also agrees. We are not afraid of changes if they involve an improvement of the system, we are only concerned about the precipitation and lack of reflection in relation to measures whose effects on the education system can be harmful. That is why we must be very careful before defending positions of dubious consistency, legal and political. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the same to paralyse that to repeal, it is not the same to freeze those provisions that have not entered into force but to paralyse the development of all the recently adopted normative provisions. Change the content, change the meaning and change the effects. You should know that, Mrs. Martin. If today we make a wrong decision, if the People's Parliamentary Group supports the initiative and the amendments of those groups calling for the repeal of the Lomce and the repeal of the royal decree regulating the final evaluations of secondary education and baccalaureate, we would not only be failing to comply with our agreement with Citizens, which I too have before me, Mrs Martín, but we would be dragging the education system into absolute chaos. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016-2017 course has already begun. Curriculums are approved, programming is developing, publishers have published the new books in the confidence that the calendar will be fulfilled because it is contained in an organic law, also known by the educational community, known by the autonomous communities. By the way, what do we do if we follow the directions of this initiative? Why do we replace the Lomce? By LOE, the LOE of 26% school failure and early drop-out which has been replaced by the Lomce of 19%? How would we do that, Your Honor? Are you able to explain to families, students and teachers that we change the game rules in the middle of the course? What do you intend to say to the 400,000 high school students who have already begun preparing their access to university? The paralysis of the royal decree would leave the latter in a legal and administrative limbo at a time, moreover, especially sensitive to them, when they are making very relevant decisions for their professional and academic future. It is not possible, as some of your ladies and gentlemen have suggested, to go back. The baccalaureate test conforms to the new baccalaureate structure, responds to the exclusive state competence, Mr Agirretxea, which the State has on regulating the conditions for obtaining, issuing and approving academic and professional degrees, as pointed out by the Council of State and which has received the support of the directors, ladies and gentlemen, precisely so that the system of access to the Spanish university can be unified throughout the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I can understand the rejection of nationalist and independentist groups of tests at national level, but I cannot understand the rejection of some of your ladies and gentlemen, especially those of you, the Socialist Group, who have traditionally defended PISA tests, who do not mind that Spain compares with other countries, but do not want us to compare with each other. I'm done, Madam President. The People's Parliamentary Group, as always, will work for a great pact for education that benefits families, students and teachers, for a pact as a guarantee of quality, freedom, equity and equal opportunities. This is the starting point, ladies and gentlemen, where we would like to meet. We're gonna be there and we're waiting for your company. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u131	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Nogueras i Camero whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u132	We've introduced a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, in advance of the vote, the first secretary is going to read an institutional statement agreed by all parliamentary groups in support of the 2017 Mediterranean Games in Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u135	Institutional declaration of support for the Mediterranean Games of Tarragona 2017. The Mediterranean Games are a multi-sport competition organised within the framework of the Olympic movement. On October 15, 2011, the International Committee of the Mediterranean Games chose Tarragona as the seat of the Mediterranean Games 2017. This spectacular event has 16 venues and will involve 4,000 sportsmen, 1,000 judges and international delegates, 1,000 journalists and 5,000 active volunteers from 26 nationalities, with media coverage that will reach 500 million people. In the current context, the refugee crisis that is taking place in the Mediterranean is the greatest humanitarian emergency facing European countries and especially those bathed in the Mediterranean. Faced with this sad reality, we are all dismayed and sympathized with human beings fleeing horror in search of a better life for their families. The Mediterranean, as a sea that unites the peoples of three continents and the cradle of civilizations and cultures, faces this dramatic situation and from all areas we must work together to put an end to this terrible situation. In the face of conflicts and tragedies affecting several countries in the area, there is an activity that can overcome all kinds of problems, and that is sport. Sport is capable of bringing men and women together in peace and harmony without distinction as to culture, origin or religious convictions. It is a factor of harmony and unity and therefore it makes sense to support the objective of framing the Games beyond the sporting event itself by promoting bridges of dialogue and solidarity in accordance with the values of olympism towards those suffering from these conflicts in countries of the region such as Syria and Libya. All this in accordance with the decision of the Organizing Committee of the Mediterranean Games of Tarragona 2017, chaired by his Majesty the King. The Congress of Deputies calls on all public administrations, and in particular the Government of Spain, to carry out the necessary administrative and economic actions that can guarantee the success of the Mediterranean Games of Tarragona 2017 and that reinforce the international projection of our country and our prestige as a reliable partner of the Olympic movement for the organization of top-level sporting events. With this institutional declaration the Congress of Deputies shows all the political and social support to get the event and its message 'Mediterranean Games Tarragona 2017, the Games of Dialogue, Solidarity and Peace', to have the maximum impact to help refugees and to make peace a reality of success. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin voting. First of all, we voted for the proposal to reform the first additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 298 abstentions, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u137	Consequently, the proposal to reform the first additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community obtains the House's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u138	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. Firstly, the non-law proposal by Esquerra Republicana on the reduction of VAT in veterinary services, which we are going to vote on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 177 against, 132 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u139	It was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group on the removal of the reviewable permanent prison sentence. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u140	We then proceed to vote on the non-law proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the repeal of the reviewable permanent prison sentence, which we vote on in its terms. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 176 against, 135 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u141	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on measures to paralyse the implementation and development of the place, with a view to repealing it and repealing the Royal Decree 310/2016, which regulates the final assessments of that and Bachillerato. [[HOMS LORD]] [[ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 8/2013 OF 9 DECEMBER, FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATIONAL QUALITY]] [[File number 162/000113]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u142	Finally, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, on measures to paralyse the implementation and development of Lomce, with a view to repealing it and repealing Royal Decree 310/2016, which regulates the final evaluations of Eso and baccalaureate. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the Basque Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 175 against, 133 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-04-CD161004.u143	The proposal was approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was eight and twenty-five minutes of the night.
