ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin, as appropriate, with the speaking shifts of the parliamentary groups in this debate on the nomination of the candidate for the Presidency of the Government. First of all, in accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, I announce that the vote will not take place before 20 o'clock today. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rajoy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to announce our vote against Mr Sánchez's candidacy. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The most obvious reason, though not the only or the most important, is that it is a fictitious, unreal candidacy. The candidate, rather than trying to seriously articulate a sufficient majority, which is what a candidate is supposed to do, has preferred not to do so for reasons which have nothing to do with the Government of Spain or the interests of the Spanish, but exclusively with the particular plans of the candidate. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] In other words, you have come, rather, you have come yesterday, without anyone shadowing you, to submit a candidacy to form Government when you have not actually moved a finger to form it. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] Maybe you want... don't worry I'll explain it to you and I'll do it so clearly that even you'll understand. [[Rumors]] [[Laughter and applause]] You have not, in fact, moved a finger to form a government and perhaps you want someone to give it to you today. The farce would not be genuine if it lacked good and bad. Indeed, what the candidate is trying to make us believe is that if Spain does not have a government today, if it does not complete a majority, if it is not elected president, it will be the fault of all the others, who are the bad ones. All this representation has been preceded by another no less theatrical and uplifting. I am referring to the solemn signature of an agreement of very limited relevance, but which has been presented without the slightest sense of ridicule with a scenography that made us think that we were facing a historical page of dimensions only comparable to the Covenant of the Toros de Guisando. [[Laughter and applause]] This great historic step, ladies and gentlemen, which the children will undoubtedly study in schools with the Caspe Commitment and the Moncloa Pacts, has made us relive those happy days of the interplanetary conjunction that announced to us an enthusiastic minister on account that on planet Earth the American presidency of Mr Obama would coincide with the European Union's rotating presidency of Mr Zapatero. The whole of Spain was stupefied. [[Applauds]] It is true that that interplanetary conjunction, compared to the current one, was very innocent. After all, she did not intend to deceive anyone or give the Spaniards the fraudulent impression that something was being resolved. But let's go through with it, Mr. Candidate. After an election campaign in which the most significant were the insults to my party, to my voters and to your opponent, who was me, the most you managed to offer your party the worst election result in your history. The Spaniards, no doubt ill-informed, decided that you would lose the election and, also, no doubt ill-informed, decided to win it by the People's Party. And here everything begins, in the need that you experience, in the face of such personal disqualification, to rectify the mistakes of the Spaniards by twisting to their convenience the electoral results. [[Applauds]] He almost made us believe, Mr Sánchez, that the People's Party had actually lost the elections and that it had won such a change with you at the head. [[Laughter]] And what came next has been nothing more than a pure automatic corollary of this approach. What was most urgent was to blind the water wells to the People's Party, to block any possibility that it could form a government, even though we had won the elections. And how did he do it? Well, you know, saying no. You told me no when I called you on December 23rd and you've repeated it since then to satiety. I remind you of your own words, Mr. Sánchez: It's no. What part of the 'no', didn't Mr. Rajoy understand? Of course, this was before his appeals yesterday to dialogue, humility and the hand stretched out. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, what I have just reminded you of is the most unique example of closure that Spanish policy has known, not because it has rejected any association or participation or support for the PP. You have rejected even the conversation, and not exactly in good manners. On the contrary, he has deliberately placed on the table all kinds of contempt to justify his unjustifiable rejection of an agreement, which was reasonable, but which cut off his personal expectations. So what happened then? It happened that you discovered Portugal, and in Portugal the miraculous formula to displace the People's Party. Recognize me that that lure dazzled him like a mirage. I guess you said to yourself, if other losers have made it, why not me? And on January 7 he traveled to Lisbon to learn how to twist an election result for his own benefit. From there he announced to us the Great Coalition of Progressive Forces - thus, with capitals - the one he intended to form, and he took advantage to add another rejection and another condemnation to the People's Party, which, in your opinion, was the main defeated in the last elections. Since then he has been offering the Spaniards a government of progress necessarily formed with Podemos and its confluences - which are called - as the great hope for Spain, the beginning of a new triumphal era that would come from the hand of his lordship. That's how things were going until their progress partners began to lay out their demands. Well, since I couldn't take care of them, since the waters were shaking in his party, he decided to abandon the Portuguese dream and change course. Then began the comedy he designed to ensure survival. The natural thing, even the honest thing, would have been for you to communicate to the king that so simple: I have tried, but it has not been possible. He didn't because he didn't want to recognize him so he wouldn't lose control of the situation. When he was aware that he could not form the government that he really wanted to decide to bet on the elections and strengthen his position by giving the Spaniards time to not leave them room for manoeuvre. Thus begins the vodevil of the negotiation of two bands, which has had us entertained as a plot comedy, on a stage with two doors, through which some enter, others exit and others escape, yes, with many photos and with many press conferences. A good example can be what we saw last Monday afternoon: meeting of the negotiating committees of Podemos, Popular Unity and Compromìs with the representatives of the Socialist Party, 23 people, drum folds and great expectation because it was the first meeting in earnest, they said to each other. But, at the same time, in the same building, the Congress of Deputies, Socialist and Citizens' Representatives had a meeting - more discreet, yes - and, at the same time and in the same place - if that were not enough - Mr Sánchez and Mr Rivera seem to meet in secret, but with enough carelessness for photographers and television cameras to capture them. [[Applauds]] From there came the ratification of the agreement which they solemnly signed thirty-six hours later, that of the Toros de Guisando, Mr Sánchez. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, this rigour with the exchange of couples has been extended to almost run out of time. He has spent the month applying for a post knowing that he did not meet the conditions to obtain it. He spent the month sharing promises and hopes with empty hands, a month, I insist, of coming and going, of visits and receptions, press conferences, exchange of credentials, a lot of television and very solemn sticks to the water. Finally, but not lastly, to save appearances, he closes a sudden agreement with whom life least complicates him. I have said no last because, suddenly and to the surprise of partners and strangers, this very Monday you decide to sabotage yourself and organise a last-minute auction, promising an endless amount of pre-bends to see if any losers will agree to expand the number of their lean supports, but that did not work, so we have known. [[Laughter]] In short, Mr Sánchez, you come here without government, without support, waiting for others to fix what you did not want to fix, because your lordship was thinking of something that matters much more to you, your own survival. [[Applauds]] Let's be honest, Mr. Sanchez. If you wanted to form a government, you didn't need that much time, because you haven't changed anything since the election. From the first day all positions, all combinations, all compatible and incompatible mixtures, all sums and all subtractions were known. I, as you know, didn't need a month. [[Laughter]] No one needed it. [[Rumors]] You'll see how you understand it, even though it's you, you'll see how you understand it. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]] I was with you, Mr. Sánchez, on December 23rd, December 23rd. At that meeting he told me he didn't want to know anything about me or my party. So, as soon as the Chambers were formed, the consultations were held in Zarzuela and the King proposed it to me, I told him that he could not form Government because you refused to participate. [[Several Members: Ah!]] Don't you understand? Yes, you understand! [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It didn't take me a month to check it out. I told the King it was clear that I couldn't because you didn't want to. [[Several Members: Ah!-Rumors]] You see how you understand? Ladies and gentlemen, I did not deceive anyone, Mr Sánchez, either the King or this House or the whole of the Spanish, anyone. [[Applauds]] And I didn't spend a day. Neither did you need to take a month for what you brought us. Am I right? Did it take a month for what you brought us? No, no, All he needed to know for his Portuguese Government was four things: whether he could conclude an agreement with the Podemos Group, which was his indispensable partner; whether nationalist groups would accept the abstention to keep the forms; whether he could pay the price demanded by all the participants in that Tower of Babel; and whether, in order to avoid alarms, that price and those mortgages could be brought silently during the investiture. Only four things, Your Honor, that could be found out - even for you - in a sanctimonious way. In fact, we all knew - I suppose you too - that you could not close a deal with Podemos, that not all nationalists would accept abstention, that you could not pay the price they demanded and, lastly, that you could not give it up in the morning in this debate. In a week, he found out. What happens is that he also knew that he needed to hide, run out of time and start the election campaign alone, because his own political survival was at stake. Now, if you are representing a comedy, if it is obvious that we are facing a fictitious and incomplete candidacy, I do not know what we have come to, Your Honor. We are here, as the Constitution indicates in its article 99.2, to grant or deny confidence in the political programme of the Government that the candidate intends to form. This involves a number of things. The first is that the candidate already has sufficient support to carry out this vote of confidence and, therefore, that he is in a position not only to be elected President of the Government, but to govern. Well, Your Honor, this is not what you propose. After listening yesterday in an exclusive special session to the candidate's speech, we do not know how his parliamentary majority is articulated, nor who he intends to govern, nor, much less, to hold himself in government. If this is so, Your Honor, I repeat, what are we doing here? Have we come to ratify a majority or to incubate it? To vote for a government project or, as your honor explained to us yesterday, to see if he's coming out? You can see we're on a new stage, but we're still on the same comedy. What would happen if one of the other groups in the House were now encouraged to accept their offer? What would be the changes that would be made to that interim project that you have read us and that you should complete on the move? I do not want to seem critical, but I have to express my surprise that we are being asked to vote for a fictional entity, which is what Mr Sánchez brings us here. Anyway, Your Honor, don't take this the wrong way, but you've entertained us for a month for nothing. I know you've been working very hard and hard, but given how little it takes, they were better off not proclaiming it. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, if anyone assumes that my group can accept the role of companion assigned to us in this courtship, you're wrong. We're not going to lower our dignity to that point. We have respect for our constituents and this is, as I said before, our first reason for rejecting this investiture successor, but it is not the only one, there is another much more serious: the Spaniards, the Spanish, their problems today and their right to a prosperous future. There, in the interest of Spain, is where our main reason for voting against this investiture of fiction is raised. The Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen, the ones you're kidding about with these theaters. The Spaniards. I'm talking about everyone, of course. In the People's Party we always talk about everyone. We don't wear sanitary cords. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] We do not divide people, nor have we ever come to this House to ask for support with the sole argument that another does not rule, because we hate sectarianism. [[Applauds]] We call for the vote to govern everyone and to defend the legitimate rights and interests of all, to vote for those who vote, because this is what coexistence requires, and we care about coexistence. It is that defense of all Spaniards that prevents me from supporting his lordship's purposes. I'll explain it to you. What Spain needs least, Your Honor, is improvisations and you cannot offer anything else. He's been improvising programs for a month, putting and taking things up to the last minute, like who prepares the wedding menu to leave it to everyone's liking. He has just improvised a florilegy of measures for the occasion, in which, as in the diets of the convalescents, nothing is included that is difficult to digest. In fact, you're still improvising right now. He is waiting to see if, by any chance, there is any help that will allow him not to rule anymore, but to rise with the Presidency of the Government. Improvisation is not good for Spain. Spain deserves more than a government that improvises to get out of the way at any price, that does not stop to measure the consequences of its actions and that conceals its intentions so that it does not notice that it cares more to survive than to govern. Secondly, after the improvisation, what Spain needs the least is a government that sets aside uncertainty. Today, when the Spanish economy is in progress, employment is growing and the country is moving forward, the political instability that you prolong, together with the challenges that others pose to the unity of the nation, are filling our political and, consequently, economic future with uncertainty. [[Several Members: That, that!]] When our first goal should be to sustain the pace of recovery, to take advantage of the opportunities we have gained and to strengthen the confidence that is still given to us; when we should send a message to the world saying: Spain does not make experiments, Spain does not change course, Spain is reliable; when we had managed not to speak of Spain again as a problem and to praise us as a model, what have you achieved at this time, Your Honor? Let us speak again of Spain, which seems more unstable, which arouses concern in its future, since at this moment any economic, social or nationalist extremism seems possible. I suppose we agree, Your Honor, that with your attitude you have opened up a great door to mistrust. We were a stimulus in Europe, but you have put us in a shadow zone, with which many economic decisions, investments, business initiatives, job offers, become suspicious and wait until they see what happens. We are recognized as having great prospects for growth, yes, but everyone knows that they are linked to the current course of the Spanish economy and that they are incompatible with any kind of political adventurism. It's not adventures what Spain needs and you're not the best place to put an end to the misgivings, because neither your party history nor your personals support you. You're not coming alone. He's got a past with him. You were among those who applauded, there, the policy that ruined us. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] For tastes are the colors, for tastes are the colors and you liked it. He's never condemned her. He hasn't even criticized her. I didn't see her badly. Do not force me to compare once again how Spain was left with you and how we have managed, despite you, to move from ruin to being the first European nation among the great, both in economic growth and in job creation. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the past does not support you. You are angry, but it is that the socialists always sow deficit and stop with the same nature with which November brings the chills and spring allergies. [[Applauds]] They can't help it. The truth is, they don't avoid it. They are dazzled by the brightness of the bread for today and never remember the hunger for tomorrow. [[Rumors]] They sow the country of unemployment, yes, loaded with good intention. The bad news is that good intentions do not relieve those who lose their jobs. Recognize me that with these precedents we must be cautious and not give confidence as if those precedents did not exist. They exist and I assure you they leave a very bitter taste. If in the last two years we have been able to create more than a million net jobs in Spain, in the last two years of your government - the government you supported, Mr Sánchez - the jobs that have been destroyed have affected more than a million people. And if in the last two years the unemployment has been reduced by more than 1,100,000 people, in the same number, but in reverse, the unemployment with you increased between 2010 and 2011. That is his authority to talk about employment, the same one he has to talk about, as he did yesterday, the public deficit. I remind you, Mr Sánchez - since you spoke yesterday about Europe - that, as Commissioner of the Branch, Mr Almunia, Brussels first issued to Spain for excessive deficit in 2009, when you were ruling. [[Applauds]] And speaking of the public deficit - an issue on which we received an interesting lesson yesterday - I remind you that while in the last four years of the former socialist government the deficit increased by EUR 117 billion, during the years of my government it has decreased by EUR 50 billion. How can you talk about public deficit in this House? With what authority? [[Applauds]] And all this, Mr. Sánchez, with an economy that has gone from recession to the end of the legislature growing to 3.5 in the last quarter of 2015. Who assures us that you will not return to the walks? I wish we could believe it! It would be very reassuring; I wish we could believe it! But, despite the goodwill that we of course have, it is clear that we cannot. You must also recognize me, Mr Sánchez, that your personal trajectory does not support you. You voted against all the major reforms of the last legislature.. yes, yes, I will explain it to you. [[Several Members: Yes!-Rumors]] It has voted against all the instruments that have allowed us to get out of the crisis and put us at the head of Europe in growth and employment. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, that's right, even if they don't like it. And how do you understand this? You didn't like any of them? Man, we'd ever be right, even if it was by mistake, right? [[Several Members: No!-Laughter]] But the worst is no longer that, Mr Sánchez; the worst is that in an exercise of iconoclast demolition, it threatens to dismantle them until it leaves stone on stone. This could be understood if after such reforms Spain was worse than before, with more unemployment, more stagnation, with higher prices and with lower pensions. But the opposite is the case, and the opposite is the case thanks to the reforms to which you opposed and which you now intend to dismantle. I understand that you have no experience, but I am already telling you that that would be devastating, especially for the Spaniards who are waiting for a job, even for many of those who have achieved it; devastating for many entrepreneurs who have trusted in the course that things were taking in Spain; devastating, Mr Sánchez, devastating. Repealing the reforms means nothing more or less than leaving Spain as it was when you were ruling. The progress you propose is to return in a few months to the 2011 disaster. That is what you call a reformist and progressing government. The reform consists of the blasting of the building and progress in the return to the past. Please acknowledge that there are reasons to be concerned. Now we know that you call progress to regression, to involutionism, to the unwiseness of destroying what others do even if it is good for the simple reason that others have done it and especially if they have done it to correct the disasters that you have left behind. And if we add to that the vaporous measures that he announces in his speech, and especially those that are silent for prudence, it is not exaggerated to say that we are facing a ruinous program for the economy, solvent for trust and catastrophic for employment, and all that with pacts or without pacts. Your Honor, under the conditions you point out, creating employment is an impossible pretension. And don't get me wrong, I don't discuss the legitimacy of your claim, it may be legitimate for you to attempt to bring us back to ruin; what I add is that that's not what's best for the Spaniards. The sensible thing when there is a project going on successfully and with good prospects is not to dismantle it, it is not to bring it down, it is not to do experiments, it is not to drown the opportunities of the people, but to collaborate with it, to bring the best of each to perfect it, to speed it up, to achieve among all, if it was already good, that it is better. That's reasonable, to my humble view. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental reason for denying our confidence in your investiture is the central axis of your programme, which is nothing other than a counter-reform of the economic and social policy of the last parliamentary term; a policy that has made it possible to move from the destruction of employment to job creation, from the unstoppable increase in unemployment to its reduction, from the uncontrollability of public accounts to the containment of the deficit, from the fall in economic activity to its growth. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. [[Rumors]] Yeah, I'm just finishing up, but let me ask you for some clarity before I do. Since you've made a pact, why don't you agree with your partner on what you are and what you're saying? Hearing them gives the impression that this pact contains antagonistic ideas; and I am not referring to the written text but to the versions that you offer, because there are so many differences between what you say and what your partner says that we begin to think that neither of you knows exactly what you have signed, or you know it and pretend to deceive us all. Nor is it known whether they offer a left-wing or right-wing government. It's not that it matters, because I don't see the world with those glasses, but I do care about their contradictions. [[Several Members: No, what's going on!-Laughter]] I'll explain it to you and you'll see how you'll understand me. [[Applauds]] The reason is not what you are thinking, but that I explain myself very well. [[Laughter]] I'll explain myself. You say, Mr Sánchez, that your pact is very left-wing and calls for support from other left-wings, while your partner says it is made to the liking of the People's Party and demands our support. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] Hey, what's this curate all about? The balm of Fierarás? And if a few lefts listen to a few lefts and a... and me or my group does, yes, listen to Mr. Rivera, do we make a coalition of four? [[Laughter]] This is not serious, Mr Sánchez, this is part of the theatre that has put us into operation along these dates. [[Rumors]] To govern - they will also understand me - it is not enough to pile up a few ideas that sound good, such as who adorns a window or the Christmas tree; it is necessary that the ideas are consistent with what is needed and what is possible to do, and besides that they can be paid, and the contrary is pure advertising talk. You first shoot, then place the target where the arrow has fallen, and so, Your Honor, you're all right. [[Laughter]] Things are done backwards, first you put the target. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, and with this I conclude: you have not been loyal to the Spaniards, you have not been loyal to them; you have hidden the truth from them, you have hidden it from them; you have kept them waiting against all hope; you have taken a month of personal promotion alone; you have no Government; you lack sufficient support and you expose us to a program that we do not know whether to consider a simple process of investiture, an attempt to cast the nets to see what comes out or an advance of your own electoral program. If you used to retain a certain ability to deceive the naive, the theatricality of the most solemn act of folder exchange clears up doubts. It is clear, and everyone has understood it, that his message to the citizenry was: I solemnly declare the electoral campaign inaugurated because it is what suits me best. Mr. Sánchez, the Dictionary of the Royal Academy defines the word bluf as a propaganda montage to create a prestige that later turns out to be false. I think it's very well described. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, my group will do its duty by voting against what can only be described as a threat to the interests of the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u3	Thank you, Mr. Rajoy. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, after listening to your speech, I reaffirm the need to change the government in substance and in form. [[Applauds]] Yesterday I said it in my speech, ladies and gentlemen, and today I share it again with all of you, and it is that we have the opportunity in this legislature to banish the insult, disqualification, which Mr Rajoy has perpetrated in his speech. [[Several Members: Hala, man!-Protests]] [[Applauds]] Look, Mr Rajoy, I am going to make a respectful speech, quite contrary to what you have done to me and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] And I will tell you more, Mr Rajoy, you are solely responsible for your inability to reach agreements with other parliamentary forces. If we have learned something, Mr Rajoy - and yesterday I said it also in the intervention - it is that in democracy the exercise of power - as you have again shared with all of us in your brief intervention - of imposition and pride is the weakest way of exercising that power. I am going to tell you the truth of the facts, Mr Rajoy, what has happened since 20 December, because if something has happened in this political life since 20 December it has been that the Socialist Party has been consistent since the first minute with everything it has said and exposed to Spanish public opinion. [[Rumors]] We said on 20 December that you had won the elections, that the People's Party was the first political force in Spain and that it was therefore your time, your time; that democracy has its procedures, its deadlines, and that consequently no shortcuts could be made; that it was your time and that you had the opportunity to try to persuade other parliamentary forces present here to try to form government. Then we learned from a phone conversation that was radiated that you had the free schedule. So don't blame us for anything that we've been working on coming to an agreement this month. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] We said, ladies and gentlemen - and I think it is very important to say this here in the House for the 'Diary of Sessions' - that the Socialist Party would only take a step forward if you failed in your attempt to form the government. And I was criticized by other parliamentary groups, Your Honor, for not taking that step forward, but none of us here will be able to say that we did not take the step forward because it was not because you did not try. What's the matter, Mr. Rajoy? What was the surprise? That you did not fail in the attempt to form Government, you resigned to form Government. Therefore, that is his greatest failure: his resignation. The debate we are having here today is the living proof of that failure, Mr Rajoy. You should be here today talking in the rostrum if you had the courage and political courage, and not sitting in your seat listening. That's the reality. [[Several Members: Oh!]] You, Mr Rajoy, renounced your responsibility to appear at the investiture, resigned, said no to the head of state, and therefore what you did was block the clock of democracy. You, who speak so much of respect, did not respect all the Spaniards and in particular the 7 million Spaniards who voted for the People's Party on 20 December. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Rajoy, forget one thing that happened the day that you and I went - I think I remember that on 22 January - to see the head of state: you snuck out and gave up that proposal with the argument - you didn't tell it in the rostrum but I am going to tell it for the 'Diary of Sessions' - that I had already agreed with Mr. Iglesias a government that seems to have imposed on me Mr. Iglesias with a vice-president even plenipotentiary. And, paradoxes of life, Mr Rajoy, probably those you used as an excuse to renounce your investiture may be during this week the only table of salvation for you to remain president of the government! [[A Member of Parliament: Take it!-Applause]] So the Socialist Party, Mr Rajoy, had two options: one, do the same as you, do a Rajoy - let me say it in colloquial terms - and, consequently, block democracy in our country; or, two, take a step forward and try to change the country, change the government, change the ways of governing, change the policies and change you as president of the government. [[Laughter]] And we took a step forward, and I said it the day I accepted the commission of the head of state. If it's written in all the chronicles of that day! And it's just that I recognized that it was very difficult, that it was very complex to try to form a majority. Because if we look at parliamentary arithmetic with the same eyes as you, that is, between left and right - I said it yesterday - do not add the left and do not add the right. If you had added the right, ladies and gentlemen, right now you would be presenting your investiture speech to be President of the Government. [[Rumors]] What there is, ladies and gentlemen, is a large majority to change you as President of the Government and change your policies. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I do not criticise those who have set the clock of democracy in motion and who have also done an exercise of courage and political courage to unlock the situation in which you have put this country into. [[Several Members: Very well!-Other Members: Uh!-Applause]] It is curious, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Rajoy has demonstrated today the will for change and the will for dialogue and agreement with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr Rajoy proposes the following to us, ladies and gentlemen: he proposes to change the Government, to change the President of the Government, to change policies, but on condition that Mr Rajoy remains President of the Government, his Government is of the People's Party and let us continue to do the policies of the People's Party. [[Laughter]] And then you call me frivolous, Mr. Rajoy! [[Applauds]] You are right in one thing: the agreement that we have adopted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group is an amendment to all of the policies that you have implemented over the past four years. [[Rumors]] That is why I would like many other Members to listen to what you have said, because, indeed, in economics we are putting an amendment to the whole of many of the issues that you have proposed. For example, in the field of employment. Yes, in terms of employment we have criticized - yesterday I did it from this rostrum - their labour policy. We said that there is no greater explosion of labour relations in our country than its labour reform. By the way, a job reform - and here are also the social partners and they can remember it perfectly - that a few months earlier... [[Rumors]] Listen to me: a few months earlier you had reached an agreement and, as a result of the bailout to the financial sector from the bankia management disaster you made and the bailout from the troika, you had to impose a regressive labor reform on this country. [[Rumors.-Laughter.-Mr Floriano Corrales: But good!]] [[Applauds]] That's the story, that's the story. And we said that the suppression of collective bargaining, we said that the unilateral imposition of contractual amendments between the employer and the worker, we said that the indiscriminate use of temporary hiring that you have proposed with your labor reform and also the suppression of the ultraactivity of collective agreements was the greatest blow of labor relations between the worker and the company. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the proposal for an agreement we have with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, what we do is to recover collective bargaining, what we do is to recover the ultra-activity of collective agreements, what we do is to limit temporary recruitment so that nine out of ten contracts in our country will cease to be temporary and precarious, and what we do is to modify those unilateral conditions that you imposed so that entrepreneurs can unilaterally modify their contracts. Secondly, with regard to the public accounts, Mr Rajoy, we said in the budget debate last September and in an election campaign - as the European Commission also recalled - that its general state budgets were not going to meet the public deficit commitments, but this is something that has happened not only during this year, but throughout the entire legislature. No year has you fulfilled the objectives agreed with Brussels. Finally, we proposed a revision of its energy model, we proposed an energy transition, we proposed the adoption of a climate change law and we raised, for example, the repeal of the sun tax, issues that constitute an amendment to its entire economic policy. With regard to rights and freedoms, what to say, Your Honor! I share with you that this is also an amendment to your entire regressive policy and cuts in rights and freedoms. That is why we are proposing to repeal from the Citizenship Security Act all those regressive aspects that restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens. We also propose the repeal of the Lecrim because you intend precisely to cut the period of instruction to open the door to impunity in some cases of corruption affecting your party, as well as the repeal of the article of the Criminal Code that prevents the right to strike and to protest the strike of many trade unionists. And we raised something that I did not say yesterday, such as the removal of court fees for small and medium-sized enterprises and for self-employed workers. As for democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the essence is, Mr Rajoy, of everything we say in that agreement? Remove the policy from the chronicle of events in which you and your party have brought it as a result of corruption cases. [[Applauds]] It is curious, Mr Rajoy, because when we presented the agreement, Mr Rivera and I, at the five-minute speaking time of your parliamentary group and you yourself disqualified him without reading it. They said that there were simply five proposals, which I remind you of: the suppression of squabbles, the limitation of mandates to eight years of the Presidency of the Government, the suppression of provincial deputies... [[Several Members: Oh, now!]] Yeah, yeah. And it was also to reduce signatures to 250,000 in order to promote popular legislative initiative in the Congress of Deputies and to halve the number of members of the plenary of the General Council of the Judiciary from twenty to ten. You said then to disqualify him that he was not serving, that he was not adding. And it's true, yesterday I said it: the PSOE and Citizens join 130 deputies here. By the way, they are more than 123, actually 122, because I understand, Mr Rajoy, that you do not count Gómez de la Serna as a member of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Greetings.-Mr Floriano Corrales utters words that are not perceived]] But I tell you, it does, ladies and gentlemen, it does. It does because, in the first place, it raises a focus on the political impasse in which you have put Spain. Secondly, because it proposes progressive solutions to the problems of the Spanish people that we can launch next week. And thirdly, Mr Rajoy, because he obeys the mandate of the citizenry, that what he told us, Mr Rajoy, is that the only political victory they expect from his politicians is the agreement and that agreement is, for those who have ruled from absolutism over the past four years, Mr Rajoy, the greatest of their failures. [[Several Members: Uh!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u5	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Rajoy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Change is obsessed with Mr Change. Mr Sánchez, if the Spaniards were so interested in political change and you were elected President of the Government, can you explain in this House why you were not voted on? [[Applauds]] Or else, can you explain in this House why the People's Party had 1,700,000 more votes than the Socialist Party? If it is true - as you said yesterday - that there are 18 million people who have not voted for it and can therefore not preside over the government, given that it has been 20 million people who have not voted for it, can you explain why you have the right to preside over the Spanish government? Is that your concept of democracy or, if you want, that of arithmetic? [[Laughter and applause]] Mr Sánchez blames me for not attending the investiture session. You're right, I didn't go to the investiture session. Do you know why I didn't go to the investiture session? Because it was impossible for me to be invested in this House because, as you know very well, without any kind of understanding with the Socialist Party that could not happen. [[Rumors]] Therefore, do not transfer your responsibilities to the political force I chair. What we haven't done - what you did - has been cheating on people. We have neither deceived the people nor the king nor this House nor blocked anything. [[Rumors]] It was you who blocked the situation, who did not allow the political force to govern the most voted by the Spaniards and who has not now made the slightest effort, once you have been appointed to attempt the investiture, to obtain it. And why didn't you, Mr. Sanchez? Because you needed - and you know it - either the People's Party contest, or the Podemos contest, because with the support of Citizens - you knew it and you keep knowing it - you can't be invested as president of the government. He didn't even want to talk to the People's Party. I repeat again: No, it's not. What part of the 'no' do you not understand, Mr. Rajoy? If you don't want to talk to the People's Party, it's obvious that you can only talk, if you want to be invested, with Podemos, and what you've done is a one-day to twenty-four meeting and making some decisions that you knew would result in that group not giving you political support. Therefore, first of all, you have prevented the most voted political force by all the Spaniards from ruling, and then you have not made the slightest effort for you, who is the representative of the second political force, to accept that responsibility, because with the political forces with which you could agree you did not want to speak. Therefore, the person responsible for blocking this situation is you, Mr Sánchez, not me, who told the king that, after what you said, he could not be invested because he had most of the House against him. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, that's the big fraud of this investiture. You didn't want to talk to us; nor do you want to talk to us, I don't mean to agree anymore. Nor have you made the slightest effort, nor have you taken any other possible agreement seriously, the only possible agreement you had in addition to ours. What you did when you came here today is an imposture, it is a deception, it is a fraud and it is a failure and it is you who have blocked the political situation in Spain. The same is true of his electoral programme. But what program brings us here, Mr. Sanchez? The one who signed with Citizens? The one who signed with Citizens played by Citizens? The one who signed with Citizens played by you? The one who sent you to Podemos forty-eight hours ago? Or the one who sent him to En Marea? Or the one who sent you to En Comú? Or the one who sent him to Compromise? What brings us here, Mr. Sanchez? The only thing we know you're bringing us, because you told us yesterday, is an agreement with Citizens, which is the first step; and it's been a week. The problem, Mr Sánchez, is what do you intend us to vote for here: something that is impossible to apply because you have not been able to agree with anyone? Do you want us to vote on a program that will never be implemented? It doesn't make any sense. You've made reference to some of the things in that program, Mr. Sanchez. He started by saying - because I had it written, it's the old trick - that I've come here to say that we have to change politics. [[Laughter]] No, I've come to say the opposite, but as you've been written in the paper you bring here that I was going to say I was going to change politics, for, hello!, we have to change politics. [[Applauds]] Well, I don't think we need to change policy, Mr. Sanchez. Besides, I said the opposite. I believe that economic policy has worked and that budgetary stability, deficit control and structural reforms must continue because they have worked, because that is what is done in the countries that have worked. You acknowledge - and you do well to acknowledge it - that yours is the repeal of all that we have done in these four years. He's giving us job lessons. But don't you realize that you were supporting a government that led to 3,400,000 Spaniards losing their jobs with its policies? How can you give us employment lessons if, when we arrived at the government, unemployment increased at the rate of 10% per annum and is now falling at the rate of 8% per annum, if when we arrived at the government Spain was in recession and last quarter of last year we grew to 3.5% per annum, if we are among the big countries of the European Union the country where there is greater economic growth and where more employment is being created? Who was going to say that in 2011? [[Rumors]] You talk about the financial system, Bankia and many financial institutions. What did the Governor of the Bank of Spain do then and the Ministry of Economy? What also happened in Caixa Catalunya and so many financial institutions? And what did you do? We at least fix the problem, today the Spanish bank is healthy and gives credit to all small and medium-sized enterprises and individuals. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, tell me about the reform of the Constitution. Can you explain with the votes of who is going to reform the Constitution? [[Rumors]] You could explain it, because if some can't think you're cheating on them. Is it going to reform the Spanish Constitution with 130 votes? You must have a lot of confidence, because it proposes nothing less than two reforms: one express and another that I suppose will be normal or not express, which is called aggravated reform. [[Laughter]] Now, are you aware of what you are proposing? Do you know that you can call on the Spaniards to vote on a referendum, a general election and another referendum within two years? Do you know that if an express reform is passed in this House 35 Members can ask for a referendum? Do you know that's supposed to be a first referendum? And do you know that in the case of the aggravated one I would have to approve it this House, then dissolve the House, then new elections and then new approval by the House and finally a referendum? Do you think that's what Spain needs for the next two years? Is that your priority? [[Rumors]] What is federal reform, Mr. Sanchez? You talk about your program. [[Rumors]] Can you explain it to us? We've been talking about that for two years. What is your proposal for Catalonia? Because according to what I have read, the agreement you have signed with Citizens, you propose for Catalonia what I have been doing over the years, that is, that a referendum on self-determination will never be held. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] What reform do you intend to make in article 135 of the Constitution that we and you vote together? What is the value of your word, how can we trust you? And what about the deputies, are they suppressed or are they not suppressed? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mr Rivera says that they are suppressed and it has always been his position, but I have heard Mr Hernando say, that I suppose he has important things to point out - I always listen to him and I do so very carefully - that they are not going to be suppressed in any way. [[Rumors]] He says they're gonna change their names. [[Laughter]] Well, there we could even reach an agreement, but promote a constitutional reform to change the name of the deputies, to decrease from 500 to 250,000 or to put the names of the autonomous communities... Man! I'd like us to study things better. Things should be done seriously, it should be clear what the objectives are, the measures should be implemented and the consequences of the decisions and actions taken should be well assessed. You can't come to an investiture session by changing every half hour of the program, making a few offers to some and others that we don't know if they're compatible, seeing who signed the first agreement then says that if you approve some of the new proposals you make to others that think differently, then you won't sign any kind of agreement anymore. Mr. Sanchez, this is not how things are done. That is why we are voting against your investiture, because what you have brought here is fraud, because you have no programme, because you have no pact, because you are unable to form a government and, above all, because you intend to liquidate what has been done in Spain over four years, which, among other things, has served to ensure that this country was not rescued, did not fall into a situation of bankruptcy, began to generate employment, improved its competitiveness and grew economically like no one else in Europe. Honestly, you don't care about Spain. Thank you. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u7	Thank you, Mr. Rajoy. The candidate has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, you say again that I have failed to respect the Spaniards. Mr Rajoy, who has disrespected the Spaniards and your 7 million voters was you not presenting your investiture speech here today in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Again, you represent the party that won the most votes on 20 December. But I tell you more, Mr Rajoy: The major minority is not a majority in a parliamentary system. You consider that power is the property of the People's Party, but it is not. You should have gathered here the majority of parliamentary forces in your support to get the investiture, and that has not been the case. Mr Rajoy, you speak of dialogue, that I did not want to talk to you, that I did not want to sit with you to talk. I went to Moncloa to talk to you and what I found was an advance proposal in a written newspaper, which said that if you supported the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the People's Parliamentary Group for your investiture you would be able to give us the Senate Presidency and the Congress Presidency. [[A Member of Parliament: One day.- Rumors]] [[Denial]] Yes, yes, that appeared in a written media outlet. [[Mr. Moragas Sánchez: Well!-Rumors]] But I'll tell you more, Mr. Rajoy. What we want to change is his Government and the content of the policies of that Government. If you had spoken to me much more during the last eighteen months, you would have listened to the approaches we have taken, for example, in relation to the crisis of coexistence that is being experienced in Catalonia; you would have listened to the fact that we should not have included in the Penal Code the life imprisonment that can be reviewed; you would have listened to all those issues that have brought back rights and freedoms in our country. [[Several Members: Ah, ah!]] So, the Socialist Parliamentary Group's extended hand in all matters of state, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, knows that you have always had it, something quite different from when you seem to be beginning to lose power, to which I shall refer later. Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I do not despise the 7 million voters of the People's Party at all. [[Several Members: No, no!]] On the contrary, I respect, and much respect, each and every one of the 122 Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, and I say to them: If I am President of the Government, I will shake hands with them to force those state consensuss that the country needs. [[Mr Floriano Corrales: Come now!- Rumors.-Applause]] I'll tell you more. I believe that it is important not only to change the substance of policies but also the way in which we do politics, and that we therefore need to restore to political life moderation in the ways in which we express ourselves: no more insults and no more disqualifications, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Mrs. Martínez Saiz: You!-Rumors]] I say this because over the last few weeks, when you have seen the loss of power and the government at risk, you have again started to jump the old ghosts, such as those of the minister of the Interior in office saying that a government presided over by a socialist, for me, is what the terrorist band of ETA wants most. [[Minister of the Interior in office, Fernández Díaz: No, no!-Rumores]] Yes, yes, seeing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, in international forums say that a government presided over by the Socialist Party and by me would mean the departure of Spain from the coalition of the fight against jihadist terrorism. [[Mr. Moragas Sánchez: No!-Rumors]] Seeing also, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and ministers in office saying, Mr Rajoy, that all evils would occur with the departure of the People's Party from the institutions of the Government and the entry of the Socialist Party into the Government, when I humbly believe that many of these problems could begin to be solved with its departure from the Government. Mr Rajoy, I believe that the People's Party is a very important party in the Spanish political system, I sincerely believe. I have said this in the rostrum, and I want it to appear in the 'Diary of Sessions': I will never say that the People's Party is a corrupt party. I'll never say it. [[Several Members: No, no!-Rumors]] A different question is that many of their leaders in different territories and also at the national level have betrayed the confidence of their voters and activists. That is why I believe that real democratic regeneration in our country requires genuine democratic regeneration and the renewal of leadership of the People's Party, and that can only happen in opposition. [[Mr. Moragas Sánchez: Aha, aha!-Applause.-Protests]] That is why, Mr Rajoy, from the very best of my respect for the 7 million Spaniards who voted for the People's Party and the 122 Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, I ask you to reflect: if you are not becoming the plug for the renewal and regeneration of the People's Party in Spain. [[Applauds]] Here's the thing. The Socialist Party will always be promoting policy change and government change, and that therefore makes it incompatible that you and I can understand each other to form government. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rajoy Brey, asked for the floor.]] Mr Rajoy has asked for the floor and, as is the tradition in this Parliament, we will give him three minutes from the seat.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not think that I will even consume the time you give me and that I thank you, as I pointed out in the first part of my speech. I'm just going to make two clarifications. Indeed, yesterday, as Mr Sánchez recalled in his speech, he said that the stage of insults and disqualifications should end. It's lasted half a day. In any case, let us see if we are able to achieve in the future those good intentions which he transmitted to this House yesterday. I'll give you a piece of advice: for insults and disqualifications to end, do you know what you have to do? Stop insulting and disqualify. So we'll never have that problem again. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, there's plugs and there's the garden dog. The hortelan dog is the one who does not let him rule who has the majority support of the citizens and is also unable to create an alternative to govern. [[Protests]] If I with 1,700,000 more votes than you have to do what you have asked me to do here, what do you have to do with 1,700,000 less and with the worst result in the history of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? [[One Member: Yes, sir.-Applause]] You're the plug. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rajoy. Mr. Candidate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u12	Mr. Rajoy, I'm not going into the 'and you more', I'm not going into disqualification. [[Protests]] You have failed to respect the Spaniards and their voters. I insist, you should have been in that rostrum defending your investiture and not listening sitting in your seat as I did that investiture. So I insist, do not criticize those who have set up the clock of democracy and those who are trying to forge political change, which is the mandate of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u13	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. It is now the turn of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, which will have three interventions that will spread the time. Firstly, Mr Iglesias has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to address you, but above all I want to address the people who follow this debate through the media; after all, we are here for the people and for the people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I have taken the floor in this democratic rostrum. Let me begin my speech by reminding and recognizing those who fought for freedom and social justice, the millions of Spaniards who faced the dictatorship, many paying it with their lives or with prison. Thank you so much. Thank you for being an example for us and for future generations. Today I will be allowed to pay tribute to the memory of Salvador Puig Antich, killed by the dictatorship forty-two years ago. [[Applauds]] They will also allow me to pay tribute to the memory of the workers of Vitoria, who were killed forty years ago for defending the social rights of all. Mr. Sánchez, today we are discussing the attempt to invest you wanted to symbolize by signing a pact that you had as a witness The embrace of John Genoese. I remind him that this painting served, first, to represent the amnesty to the political prisoners of the dictatorship and, then, to honor the labor lawyers of Atocha murdered for defending the working class. In view of the contents of your pact, Mr Sánchez, I think you should have looked for another painting. The Spears of Velázquez would have been a much better picture, set to symbolize a capitulation. Ladies and gentlemen, telling the truth and having principles has become something strange and it seems that politics today is the art of simulation when not the art of lying and camouflage or mestization. Let me tell you the truth today and demand politics as the art of changing things and not the art of pacting so that everything remains the same. I owe it to the more than 5 million citizens who voted for us and to everyone else. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, is not the art of deception, nor of disguise, nor the manufacture of cocktails with different flavors. Politics is the art of transforming reality and consists of finding the most important link in the chain of power, which ensures control of the whole chain. For a long time, that link was the government of the state. Today many will say, and not without good reasons, that the decisive links of the power chain escape democratic controls. Effective powers, especially financial powers, are never held accountable to citizens. In recent weeks we have seen these factual powers continually pointing out which government is right for Spain, saying without modesty that Spain was right for a great coalition between the People's Party, the Citizens' Party and the Socialist Party, and warning about the danger of Podemos' participation in a government. Today, in this debate, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing the first delivery of the plan of oligarchies who fear and hate the possibility of real political change in Spain. [[Applauds]] We are not naive, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the limits of the transformation into political action of any government. We are aware that sovereignty has shifted from States to supranational bodies. We know that the architecture of globalization humbles popular sovereignty every day and restricts the development of the ideological foundations of modernity: equality, fraternity and freedom. Every time it is said that inequality, corruption and financial deregulation are like the law of gravity, the very meaning of the word democracy is being attacked. The cynical smiles of some of you show the hypocrisy of your political conformism. You're sure nothing can be changed. They know that there is corruption, exploitation and insecurity, but they denounce any attempt to change things as dangerous, unacceptable and, above all, impossible. However, in these weeks, we and we have learned something. If the oligarchies are so concerned about keeping the Government in the hands of their puppets, it will be that the Government is indeed important. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to this Parliament driven by the illusion that the stone that David threw at Goliath with his depth opened up, turning into a political project a simple message that people threw in the squares: 'Yes you can'. The 15-M pointed out with hundreds of thousands of voices the injustices and also the longings for a better future. The old party machinery then responded arrogantly by telling the people of the squares to run for election. Well, here we are. Our presence here today shows that that movement changed everything. No one can represent a movement but for us it is a pride that many of those who did not so long stand at the door of this Parliament are here today working to change things. [[Applauds]] To the possibilities of change, gentlemen of the People's Party, you have referred by agitating the ghost of totalitarianism. You have said - indeed we are the coconut, aren't we, Mr Margallo? - that we want to destroy democracy and that surely, as you said, Minister of the Interior, the ETA would be very happy that we would govern in Spain. Let me remind you that some of you are political children of totalitarianism in this country. I have respect for you, Mr Rajoy, and I will not miss it, but let me remind you that your party, the party that has made corruption and injustice a form of government - that is why the People's Party, Mr Sánchez, is a corrupt party - was founded by seven ministers of the dictatorship. You have always been arrogant with the weak and servile with the powerful and you are primarily responsible for corruption and injustice to have become the biggest shame in Spain. You, Mr. Rajoy, are the stone guests in this investiture. Neither the programme nor the parties that drive it represent any problem for you, as you have had enough to say in these months and as you have repeated here today. Today for you there is only one problem of names, just let the three of you agree on who should be the President of the Government. I'm asking you a question, Mr. Rajoy. [[Protests.-Several Members: The other! Sanchez!]] Do you have a Mario Monti in the closet? Mr. Rivera, I have you for a skilful politician and as such I admire you. I suspect you've read Lakoff more than Machiavelli, but you have virtues of both. I recognize you who know how to master fortune. If there's a winner today, that's you, Mr. Rivera, at Mr. Sanchez's expense. But let me give you a consideration: you represent the worst of Spanish political traditions, which has no ideology more than your proximity to power. You, Mr. Rivera, would have been the leader of Komsomol in the Soviet Union and head of the squad in our post-war period. [[Rumors]] And today you're the natural leader of what the president of a bank called the Right-wing Podemos, not so much because you're right-wing, but because you're the boss, Mr. Rivera. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, the politician who has no more flag than his closeness to the powerful can end up becoming a puppet to the powerful. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] You read The Prince, Mr. Rivera. It will provoke him rejoicing to recognize himself in some of the tricks recommended by the great Florentine secretary. Perhaps, if you read it, besides Suarez, you will begin to admire Caesar Borgia. That's right, you get to the last chapter of the book. To be César Borgia is not enough to be cunning, and you have to be brave, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] I have great respect for the acronyms you represent, Mr Sánchez. They are the acronyms that founded an exemplary socialist, a principled socialist. They are the acronyms that represented men and women of unrepeatable talent and dignity as Margarita Nelken, as Indalecio Prieto or as Juan Negrin. They are the acronyms of my grandfather's party, socialist of a time when being socialist led before to the prison and firing squad than to the boards of directors of the big companies. [[Applauds]] Yours was also, Mr Sánchez, the party of illusion, change and modernization, and it counted and counts today also with women and men of great value with whom we would love to be able to work. But his party was also that of rapid enrichment. Do you remember, Mr. Sánchez, when Solchaga said that Spain was the easiest country to get rich? His party was also the party of state crime. His party was also the party of state crime. Be suspicious, Mr. Sánchez, of the advice of those who have stained their past of living lime. Be suspicious, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds.-Protests]] His party was also for a long time the influence trade party that turned its back on Spanish workers. That is why, Mr Sánchez, to govern with you we demand and will always demand guarantees that the mistakes of the past will not be repeated. Your party, Mr. Sánchez, received last day 20 the toughest verdict of the polls. Yours was, by contrast, the worst result ever achieved by a Socialist Party candidate for the presidency of the government, and yet what Machiavelli called fortune - and that Mr Rivera handles better than you - wanted to give you the opportunity to lead a historic government that would seriously undertake economic reforms to correct inequality and impoverishment. But you preferred to hear the voice of the powerful who did not stop saying: With Podemos no, before anything a government agreement with Podemos. Yesterday he presented a pact to the measure of the oligarchies, without even a minimum gatopardian disguise. Your gastronomic allusion to yesterday, regarding the ideological mix, was a poor way to justify your capitulation to a political force that you described yesterday as the new generations of the People's Party. We're going to vote no for your investiture, Mr. Sánchez, and I'm going to explain to you why. The pact that it presents makes it impossible to reverse the harsher effects of the crisis and consolidates the main policies of the People's Party. Perhaps this has to do with the economists who have negotiated it. One of them worked for Price Waterhouse Cooper - I think I said it a little better this time -, a firm specialized in advising on how to privatize, and the other economist worked for Liberbank and the FAES Foundation. [[Applauds]] If you accept my advice, Mr Sánchez, next time you send a socialist to talk about economics. [[Applauds]] You are betting, exactly like the People's Party, on the dogmatic compliance with the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact. We cannot, Mr Sánchez, talk about the welfare state and maintain that suicidal path of reducing the public deficit. Precarious workers, women with children and dependants, unemployed without benefits, families evicted by banks, grandmothers and grandparents forced to stretch their pension to help their family are the victims of neoliberal economic dogmatism that we must overcome. I am not surprised by the neoliberal conformism in Citizens, for whom the liberal word has nothing to do with the meaning given to it by the Spanish revolutionaries two hundred years ago; for those the liberal word has to do with defending the privileged, but I expected something else from a socialist, Mr Sánchez. The suffering of our homeland is measured by figures: 18 billion euros cut to education by the People's Party and you do not intend to reverse those cuts. The White Sea and the Green Sea pointed out the path of wisdom these years. It is not acceptable that your proposal does not propose to end once and for all with the sanitary cocoon and circumvent with circumloquies the essential repeal - with this word - of the Lomce. Listen to the tides, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Let me refer to the house. To speak of housing in Spain, it must be recognized that human rights have been violated by forced evictions without housing alternatives and by condemning people to perpetual debts. You in your pact do not prohibit forced evictions without housing alternatives and claim that people continue to pay after delivering their home. We are not ambiguous and propose the five of the PAH: Retroactive payment, affordable rents, end of evictions without alternative housing, end of the grabbing of empty housing by large speculators and guarantee of supplies to end the cuts of light, water and gas, which are also human rights. [[Applauds]] I want from this rostrum to pay tribute to those who play their freedom and physical integrity by defending the right to housing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] As far as employment is concerned, Mr Sánchez, your pact does not defend the workers. Nothing surprising in the case of Citizens but in a party that is called socialist. They have left the door open to the reduction of layoff while their pact does not specify whether or not the worker will pay - and I ask you a question - the so-called Austrian fund he proposes to finance layoff. You maintain the reduction in redundancy payments from the 2012 labour reform, which you say here you want to repeal. Its pact maintains the extension of the causes of the objective dismissal, the abolition of administrative authorization prior to employment regulations, the facilities for unilateral withdrawal from collective agreements, as well as the elimination of control over overtime in part-time contracts. With the new contractual figure that you intend to carry out, temporary contracts will no longer need any motivation and can be used for indefinite positions. What you are doing, Mr Sánchez, is giving a letter of nature to fraud and promoting precariousness. If you continue to give in to the orange pressure, do not be surprised if any day the workers require you to hand over that and the acronym(s), Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, for justice and efficiency, our proposal is clear and unambiguous: we must repeal the last two labour reforms and defend quality employment. In tax matters, its capitulation to mechanical orange is blushing. You maintain the fiscal reform approved by the People's Party in 2015, renouncing to reform the sufficiency and progressiveness of our system. You say you want to reform corporation tax with the aim of bringing effective rates closer to nominal rates, and that is fine, but from the moment your partner requires you to withdraw the minimum tax at 15% for large business corporations your corporate tax reform remains at nothing. Mr Sánchez, we are not ambiguous in our proposal. Spain needs a tax reform that guarantees solidarity of higher incomes and ensures sufficient income to invest in people. In the area of pensions, his pact was also disappointing. In November 2013, you criticized the reform of the pensions of the People's Party and said, quite rightly, that it was unfair and that it impoverished the pensioners. The pact presented to us today does not change the pension reform that reduced the purchasing power of pensioners. As far as foreign policy is concerned, its pact is a compendium of vagueness, especially as far as Europe is concerned. There is no point in vaguely enumerating principles when they do not translate into real policies. The reality is that Europe is on the verge of a social abyss and, Mr Sánchez, believe me, there are no half inks on this. Ten days ago the government in office gave a shameful OK to the blackmail imposed by David Cameron on the European Union. I was at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and I heard the Socialist representative criticising the agreement, saying that it was a legal abuse, a threat to the European project, an irreversible precedent that jeopardized the cohesion of the European project - the criticism was reasonable - but then what did you do? The usual, they didn't object to the agreement. That same attitude holds you in front of the TTIP, which poses a threat to social, environmental rights and popular sovereignty. You criticise some elements of that treaty, but at this time, you voted for it with the People's Party in the European Parliament. [[Applauds]] I was there. We, Mr Sánchez, are not ambiguous in our proposal. It takes a government to defend the European project, but not that financial casino where people pay the bankers' party bills. In the area of asylum and asylum policy, his pact once again included many generalities and few guarantees. You can't be so ambiguous, Mr. Sanchez. Reform of the 2009 Asylum Act Regulations is required so that diplomatic asylum can be sought in embassies and consulates from third countries; this would avoid embarrassing images such as those of a child killed on the beach. Mr Sánchez, it is essential to restore legality on the southern border, to put an end to hot returns and to eliminate concertinas. That is not in his covenant; it is regrettable that they have forgotten about it. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] In your speech yesterday you forgot about the professionals of the State Security Forces and Corpses. In this House some have filled their mouths talking about Spain while granting medals to virgins instead of agents working on the street; many of them have to pay with their money for bulletproof vests for lack of budget. Civil Guard officers continue to be denied the right to union. [[Applauds]] We need a government that defends the rights of those who protect us. In energy policy there are some good purposes, but without guarantees or concrete compliance; there are also inconsistencies. Yesterday you spoke, Mr Sánchez, of shutting down the 40-year-old nuclear power plants. Mr Sánchez: no nuclear power station operating in Spain is going to serve 40 years in this legislature. Don't fool us, Mr. Sanchez. [[Laughter and applause]] The most serious aspect of its pact, as far as the electricity market is concerned, is that it does not talk about ending the fallen benefits of the sky of electricity and nuclear power, nor does it address the price-fixing system. The electricity system requires full audit; not only of regulated costs, but also of generation and distribution costs and of the debt associated with the tariff deficit. We're not ambiguous. In our proposal we say that we must put an end to the billions of euros on unjustifiable wages that the electric oligopoly receives and that they will increase the bill of light that all citizens have to pay. Let them not touch, even of rephilon, these subjects say much of their reverential submission to the oligopoly of electrics. I would like to dwell on more aspects of your pact, but, of course, times regulate this debate, limit it, and it is good that this is so. My colleagues at En Comú Pom and En Marea will now expand our analysis of their pact. Mr. Sanchez, with all due respect, I'm going to ask you to understand us. We came to this Parliament telling people not to forget; not to forget evictions, not to forget corruption, not to forget the privatization of health care, not to forget 135 of the Constitution and not to forget labour reforms, both of them. I don't betray my people, Mr. Sanchez. Perhaps you can reproach me for the firmness or not respecting very much the protocols and the label - once you said that I didn't look like I don't know what - but you can never blame me, Mr Sánchez, not being clear and sincere with you from the beginning. In deception nothing flourishes, of the truth everything is possible. Mr Sánchez, from the beginning we told you that you had two options on the table: either the great coalition or a progressive government. That progressive Government could have - I assure you - achieved the necessary parliamentary support. Not next week, as Tip and Coll said, and as you repeated yesterday. It gives me the impression that your speech will pass into history for that, next week's speech. Today, Mr. Sanchez! Today we could already have a government if you had chosen to form it with us. Mr. Sánchez, I'm going to tell you the truth, what you've brought us here, perhaps without fully realizing it, is the first delivery of the grand coalition plan. You have signed a programmatic agreement that does not put the PP in trouble. I'm not saying it, your partner says it, Mr. Rivera. Take care of the mechanical orange, Mr. Sanchez! You have chosen a very skilful partner who will not hesitate to hand him over to the PP as soon as he has occasion. After you fail today and Friday, the same ones who forbade you to agree with us will want to force you to swallow the second delivery of the plan of the oligarchies: include the PP in the agreement. It's the plan of the Ibex 35, it's the plan of some of the old glories of your party. And I assure you that in that second surrender the plan is not for you to be at the head of that government. But you can still rectify. You can still be president of the government and live up to the acronyms of your party. Today I again extend my hand to you, Mr Sánchez, to ask you, after this failure, to negotiate with us from the fraternity and in the interest of the people and the people of Spain. [[Rumors]] Negotiate with us a program and a government of real change. The numbers give and you know it. A government with us, with the United Left, with Compromises, would get more positive than negative votes in this House. Don't go out of your way! And you get rid of the red lines. Stop obeying the oligarchs, Mr. Sanchez! Stop listening to the siren songs that lead to the shipwreck. You know that we are firm and that we have always looked at you, and at your party equally. Last weekend I was reviewing investment debates over the last few decades. I acknowledge that I was outraged to see the displeasure and arrogance with which the representatives of his party were addressing just men such as Gerardo Iglesias, Julio Anguita or José Antonio Labordeta. Those righteous men intervened from this rostrum full of reasons, but perhaps with few seats. Today things have changed and if anything we can be accused of is that we have treated you equally. There is no spirit of revenge in our dignity or in our firmness, Mr Sánchez. [[Rumors]] I assure you that our loyalty will be equally firm if you rectify and agree with us. But understand that the time of the bipartisan turn is over in Spain. Correct yourself and treat us as a partner with which decisions and responsibilities are shared. Don't try to fool us again, Mr. Sanchez. I will be honest with you - and I will finish now - if you rectify and we govern together our action will create enemies, but we should not care. To deserve the hatred of those who poison the people must be an honor for us. The phrase is not mine, Mr Sánchez, it is from Pablo Iglesias, the founder of his party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u15	Mr. Iglesias, I want to conclude because I remind you that you have to share time with two other speakers and have spent twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u16	I'm done, Mr. President. Sometimes the real change is to return to the beginning, to the beginning, Mr Sánchez. Let me finish with the words of a Mexican emigrant who worked at El Corte Inglés and who said that ruling is to send obeying people. In deception nothing flourishes, of the truth everything is possible. Freedom, justice, democracy. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u17	Thank you, Mr. Churches. Mr Domènech has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, candidate for the presidency of the Government, we are certainly at a historic moment, but that the moment is historic does not mean that everything we do at that time is equivalent to historic action. We have attended this morning in Mr Rajoy's speech, and in the replies between Mr Rajoy and Mr Sánchez, to a very interesting debate, with a lot of irony - fine irony - but basically to a debate about who had failed most, that is, whether a People's Party that is absolutely politically isolated in this House had failed more, or whether a Spanish Socialist Workers' Party had failed even more with a pact with citizens that did not add up. Despite all the rhetoric and irony, we have attended a debate about whether those who had taken the worst result of their history and lost a million and a half votes had failed more or those who had lost three and a half million votes had failed more. It's a debate that as a historian I can find more or less interesting, but I think it's a debate that only indicates in the end, despite its rhetoric and despite its struggles, it's something that the citizens said on December 20: bipartisanism is over. [[Applauds]] We are indeed at a historical moment, but it is not a historical moment only made up of hopes, it is a historical moment made up, and much, of suffering. From 2008 until today our society has changed radically and, beyond the crisis and above all the management that has been made of it, it has turned Spain not only into the head country, as Mr Rajoy has indicated today, into job creation and I do not know what else - certainly there are many - but in Europe's head country into social inequality. That has been the result of the policies of recent years, from 2010 to the present. This situation has a name, and not only has a name, it has faces. We find those faces on the street, they interrogate us every day. This situation is called poverty; it is called precariousness; it is called privatization of our rights; it is called evictions; it is called scam, not crisis, scam. Some can still remember the world before 2008 and probably from this space that world before 2008 seems to be still living now. But let's think, those young people and those young people who in 2008 were ten years old today are already eighteen - they were children, they were teenagers and they are already adults - and their life and their world is that of the crisis. It's no longer a crisis, it's a new model of society we have to fight against. This is the historical moment we are living in and it is also the moment, indeed, of a great opportunity; an opportunity built with the limbs of those who have fought, those who have resisted and those who have challenged. We will never forget, because we come from there, that here who has fought the crisis, who has resisted the crisis, who has challenged the political system that led this society to the crisis it was the people in the factories, in the squares, in the streets, who stopped the evictions. [[Applauds]] Those are the ones who carry the warm hope of change, but a warm hope of change that is also built with the hardness of certainties. In that sense, yes, we are living a moment of great opportunity, of the certainly forming of a government of change, but, I am sorry, this is not what we are voting for here today. Today we do not vote here for the hope of a government of change, today we vote for a pact. Nor do we vote for Mr Rajoy, who has not presented himself to the investiture. By the way, I was concerned to hear Mr Sánchez present himself at the investiture because Mr Rajoy did not present himself. I hope that you have presented yourself for something more than that; we all hope that you have presented yourself for something more than that. [[Applauds]] Today we voted on a proposal for a pact signed on 24 February between PSOE and Citizens. It is an agreement that was presented at the time not as an investment agreement - in which the two signatories of the pact were clear - but as a government agreement, therefore, it was not only seeking a few votes and then seeking alliances with other sectors but it was clearly the central axis of government policy that was being proposed at the time. It was a pact, moreover - and so it was presented by both signatories, by Mr Rivera, to whom we thank few things but some yes, their sincerity - to exclude one and include another; to exclude 5 million votes for the real change - so it was said and you did not contradict it - and to include others - I do not know if Mr Rajoy but, in any case, the People's Party. It was a pact that clearly excluded us and I do not understand any of the surprises, I do not understand any of the invocations that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has been making in recent weeks. I do not understand that his only message these days is: if you do not vote for us, rule the People's Party. [[A Member: It's the truth]] That is the message of the 1990s, it is the one that has remained practically the only political message in these years and it is the message that has led them to the worst electoral outcome of their history. Is there anything more there than that? [[Applauds]] It was also said, in this use and abuse of words, that it was a historic pact - in the words of Mr Sánchez - that called all the Spaniards, and certainly some in the House - basically of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, I do not know if also of Citizens, although I doubt it - wonder if before such historical enlightenment, before this big bang of Spanish political history, how it may be that we do not raise, at least, abstention. That's the question you're asking in all the speech you're making. For because that covenant is not light, that covenant is darkness, that covenant is not future, that covenant is past, that covenant is not left-wing, that covenant is right-wing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u19	Wait a minute. Mr Domènech, if you want your partner to have even five minutes of intervention, you should now conclude yours.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u20	I had a lot of interesting things to say but, if I may say so, I will refer to one, because there has never been a government of change, a government of the left, in the political history of Spain that turns to the Catalan reality. [[Laughter]] It is impossible, absolutely impossible to form a government of change in this country by turning to much of the Catalan political system, and citizens participate there. Citizens are the envoy of Ibex 35 so that you cannot form a left-wing government; you are doing your job perfectly. Then you'll go talk to the others and take them together from the handle; you'll find that mechanical orange that it really is. This pact turns to the Catalan political system not only because the pact says that, obviously, you do not agree with Catalan imperialism, the pact says specifically that what the Socialist Party of Catalonia defended two years ago, which is the holding of a referendum in a legal framework, which is the realization of what has been done in Quebec, what has been done in Britain, what is beginning to be normal to resolve this type of conflict, that could not and should not be done, as Mr Girauta says. Was that against that large and important independent parliamentary majority in Catalonia? No, it turned against 80% of Catalans and Catalans. [[Applauds]] Just this. And a message from fraternity and hope, and that is that from the end of this session we can start talking. You have questioned our voters a lot these days - nothing happens, you are in your right - and from that message and this joint interpellation to your fraternity, I too want to question your voters and even beyond your voters. [[Finally your speech in Catalan.- Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u21	Thank you, Mr. Domenech. Mrs Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u22	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start today with a few verses: 'This is what Penelope said: There is the magic and it can be of everyone. / What so much novel and so much history? / I'm also sailing. Thus expressed the Galician poet Xohana Torres her tiredness as a woman, but also her firm will to be free and make her own decisions. And so we want to express here today the exhaustion of hundreds of thousands of Galicians and Galicians who are already tired of waiting for institutions like this to put themselves at the service of the most. There is magic and it can be of all and all. Magic is the desire for a cycle of political change and radical democratic transformations in the Spanish state. A positive response to this desire could not wait any longer, but you, Pedro Sánchez, have not known or wanted to answer it. Mr Sánchez, today our vote will be no, as we announced last week when we learned from the press that they already had a pact signed with Citizens. It is a no to continuism, a no so that real change, palpable, tangible for social majorities can arrive as soon as possible. We couldn't wait any longer, Mr Sánchez, and it gives us the feeling that all you've done these two months is turn around, turn around and turn around to end up sitting on the same bubbles that support this 78-year regime. The economic system of the Spanish State in recent decades was based on a bubble, but not only the economic system, but also the political system, with a bipartisanism that never corresponded to the plurality existing in the societies of the various nations of the State. Or the judicial system, whose Constitutional Court decreed what some of us already knew, that the State of Autonomy was also a punctured bubble and the welfare system and labour rights and civilians cut and punctured by decree. And what about the bubble of corruption, that in which the good people, the beautiful people, the ruling classes went from being the guests of a wedding in El Escorial, to being the bearers of royal blood and the treasurers brought to see their magical halo faded before our eyes. Bubbles is also the European dream, turned into a nightmare of the peoples by non-democraticly elected suprastate bodies, turned into express reform contrary to the popular interests of a Constitution that the two great dynastic parties assumed untouchable. A European dream turned into the shame of humanity by means of large mass graves filled with immigrants drowned in the Mediterranean, and bubbles, at last, the powerless micro pact between a social-democratic party that does not exercise such a party and a neo-liberal party camouflaged after smile and telegenicity. This last bubble is about to burst and once this happens, Pedro Sánchez, stop creating spice and stop inflating new bubbles. You know perfectly well that reviewing a concession is not revoking it and we want Ence out of the ria of Pontevedra. [[Applauds]] You know that good intentions are not firm commitments and we want our sailors, our shellfish, our farmers and farmers to have a voice in Europe and the ability to defend themselves against the big multinationals. [[Applauds]] You also know that one thing is to investigate and another very different to look for one side. We want a commission of inquiry into the Angois accident, whoever falls. [[Pointing to the seats on the left and on the right.-Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, I come from a land where two particularities combine that make it unique in the state. We are a nation with a culture and a minority language, but in addition to these characteristics that we share with other nations of the State we are a peripheral nation with respect to the economic flows that govern the Spanish State. We are a nation with productive sectors that are not strategic for the State, but that are vital for us. If we want to stop the precariousness that expels thousands of young Galicians to emigration, for Galicia, self-government and well-being are two sides of the same coin that cannot be separated. For Galicia, Mr Sánchez, a 180-degree turn towards austerity policies and the state model are necessary as water of May, instead of the bubbles and spices that you preach, Galicia would need a stake for a productive economy and for political weighting. Instead of more bubbles and mirages, an invitation, let us make together a program governed by concepts with words I'm sure you know: social democracy and democratic deepening. It is not much that we ask - it is not our program of maxims -, it is a sincere meeting point from which to build a future on solid pillars. Social democracy to put the first stones after decades of governments against people and democracy to treat the people and peoples of the Spanish State as elderly and responsible for their decisions. You have now missed the opportunity to do all this for the thousands of indignant and indignant with the empty bubbles of recent years. To show them that there was an alternative to this continuing to walk on unstable ground was their responsibility at this time. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Galicia, we will regret it very much if the opportunity lost by Pedro Sánchez to build a left-wing government in the state can cause the people of the Galician nation to see also committed to the achievement, after the upcoming Galician elections, of an alternative to what Xose Manuel Beiras called the demolition and ethnocide brigade represented by the government of Núñez Feijóo. We will regret it, but it will be our people who will not forgive you. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Group, stood up.- Mr Viejo Viñas speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. The candidate has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Iglesias, it is not necessary for you to go and distribute good socialist cards, nor does it even need to be so hard on the People's Party, it is enough just that you do not vote with them; only. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] I will say something with great respect, Mr Iglesias, with great respect, above all, not so much to that part of your speech, but to the voters you represent in this House. Next Monday, the 8th anniversary of the murder of Isaiah Carrasco, a toll worker who was killed by ETA, by those you described yesterday as political prisoners. [[applause.-Rumors.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion: Lie! Lie! Lie!]] Mr. Iglesias, with all due respect - yesterday I said it and I repeat it again - the Spaniards gave us a solid vehicle last December 20th that is called an agreement, that has a mandate that is the change and whose gasoline is the dialogue and, therefore, that which grips the engine of that vehicle is precisely what you have done during this month: veto, exclude, get up from the negotiating table and, consequently, paralyse that vehicle from the change. [[Denials of Mr. Turrion Churches]] We have a clear, unambiguous proposal, and it is that Mariano Rajoy ceases to be President of the Government today with the vote in favour of his parliamentary group. [[applause.- Denials of Mr Iglesias Turrion]] I say it clearly: I would like nothing more than a left-wing government in this country, but let us not deceive people, ladies and gentlemen, let us not deceive people, there is no majority. The other day a meeting was held, to which Mr Rajoy referred, between the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Compromís and Unidad Popular, do you know how many seats there are? So 161 seats. Only the sum of right-wing or centre-right political formations represents at least 163 seats. I have said this in private and I have said it in public and I say it here for the 'Diario de Sesiones': I will not allow, with all due respect to the voters of Esquerra Republicana, that the governability of Spain rests in independence parties. [[Applauds]] I won't allow it, Mr. Churches, I'm sorry. Nothing I'd like more than a left-wing government, but there's no majority for it to be. Now, Mr Iglesias, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group We can, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not going to resign itself to Mariano Rajoy remaining President of the Government, to Spain being in office and to not being able to lead a government of change. It is true that the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group do not have enough seats to lead this change; we have said so from the outset. It is also true that we proposed - yesterday I did so in this House - to move forward, and for that the first thing we have to do is to get up and take a first step, which is what we have taken with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. It is proof, moreover, of something very important, of the mandate of the citizenry of 20 December, which told us that they wanted two political parties or more of different ideologies to understand us. During this negotiation process, ladies and gentlemen, with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we have discovered by talking, dialogue, negotiating, trying to agree that there are elements that separate us. It is true that the electoral programme of the Socialist Party is not that of Citizens and that the electoral programme of Citizens is not that of the Socialist Party, but, ladies and gentlemen, we have found two hundred measures of improvement for the political life, social and economic life of our country. How many don't you like, Mr. Churches? Eight, as you say in a press release? Ten, twenty, thirty, forty, fifty, sixty, seventy? [[Denials of Mr. Turrion Churches]] Let us make the other one hundred and thirty proposals possible next week. [[applause.- Denials of Mr Iglesias Turrion]] Let's make them possible, Mr. Churches. Why do we have to wait? Why do we have to wait? I hear about the 15-M, about the anti-discharge collectives, Mr Domènech, about job insecurity, but you, for example, in your proposal for a dialogue for the alliance of change, say that you want a law against energy poverty and that is in the agreement, Mr Domènech, that is in the agreement. He says they want to reactivate policies against gender-based violence and that's in the agreement, Mr. Domènech. He says they want a guaranteed income for citizens according to their income. Ours is a vital minimum income for the 750,000 households that have no income at all. You say you want a plan to promote decent work and in the agreement there is a plan to combat exploitation of work. You speak of solidarity with the refugees and I committed myself yesterday to you in this rostrum that we were going to push forward that plan for solidarity with the refugees coming from Iraq and Syria. You talk about repealing the Lomce and we talk about the agreement to paralyze the Lomce. You talk about shielding the right to public health and we in the agreement, Mr Domènech, talk about universalizing public health and recovering the health card within the deadlines that existed before the royal decree of 2012. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Domènech, are talking about dependence and we in the agreement are saying that we want to revitalize the Unity Act - by the way, a law passed by the Socialist Group - and we also want to recover social security for non-professional caregivers who suppressed Mr Rajoy. You are also talking about reducing cultural VAT and the agreement is talking about reducing cultural VAT to 10%. Mr Iglesias, Mr Domènech, Mrs Fernández, the worst of the measures in this agreement is much better than leaving Mr Rajoy as President of the Government in office. [[Applauds]] I will do something unusual in politics, Mr. Churches, because I want the agreement, and as I want the agreement I will apply it to myself first. I want the agreement and, therefore, I will not talk about the deep disagreements that your political party has and its confluence with the Socialist Party. For example, here in Mr Domènech's role we are talking about the referendum for the self-determination of Catalonia. You know that the Socialist Party will never support it. You are not going to support it - I have told you privately, I say it to you in public as well and I say it here to make it appear in the 'Diary of Sessions', Mr. Iglesias - because you know as well as I do that requires a constitutional reform. National sovereignty cannot be broken. We do not want to break national sovereignty. Yesterday I said that living is living together and, therefore, if we have to choose, we have to decide among all; not a part has to decide for the whole. I have the same degree of concern as you and your entire group in relation to the crisis of coexistence that is being experienced in Catalonia. That is why I have tried to talk to Mr Rajoy about the crisis in Catalonia, with little success, as we have seen over the past two years. If we have to put forward a proposal and an agreement for Catalonia, I think it is much better to reform the Constitution so that the Catalans vote on an agreement and not a break like the one you are putting forward with the right to self-determination. By the way, in that document which you presented with almost 200 leaflets you also open the door to the right to self-determination of other territories - it says textually - that this is historically called for. What are you talking about? To what also in Galicia, Mrs Fernández, must there be a right to self-determination of the Galician people? Sit down? Is that so, Mr. Churches? [[Consent]] Because that is the worst way to break Spain and break national sovereignty. [[Applauds]] I do not agree with breaking national sovereignty. I agree that we need to resolve the crisis in Catalonia. I agree that we have to recognize in the Spanish Constitution the diversity, uniqueness and identities of different territories. By the way, the Socialist Party, the Party of Catalan Socialists, Mr Domènech, in the Statute of Catalonia recognizes the historical rights of the Catalan people; so at least acknowledge, Mr Domènech, that before you arrived there were Catalan socialists who were already defending the identity and uniqueness of Catalan society. [[Applauds]] We do not agree to break Spain. Nor do we agree - you talk to me about the Social Democratic economists -, I say this to you with all honesty, perhaps you have misinformed him, I say this to him with all due respect, with the increase in public spending that you propose, which is not €96 billion. It is EUR 120 billion, because it is an addition to the increase in the public spending forecast for this legislature. [[Denials of Mr. Turrion Churches]] You know that an increase of more than EUR 120 billion - or EUR 96 billion, gives me the same - would involve the explosion of budgetary stability in our country, the increase in public debt and, consequently, the exit of the euro. Indeed, as you remind me of the TTIP, and one of the proposals I have made to your parliamentary group has been precisely that the TTIP will not be approved if the environmental, social and labour rights of workers are violated, as I recall that I will tell you what your parliamentary group voted on a few days ago in the European Parliament; it has voted, together with the extreme right, to articulate instruments for some countries to exit the euro. [[Rumors]] Is that what you want for Spain, Mr. Iglesias? Because your increase in public spending would imply that. We also do not agree with the end of the separation of powers that he raised in his structure and in his organization chart of government. Nor do we agree to reform the Constitution that is not subject to the agreement of the entire majority of this House, this Congress of Deputies. You argue that by 51%, with a referendum on the population, this Constitution can be reformed. I believe that the Constitution, Mr. Iglesias, to which you referred in the beginning of your speech, must always be a framework of coexistence and not a pimpampum between different political parties, so the constitutional reform will have to be done here and with the agreement and consensus of the majority of parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] I insist, I want the deal, and that's why I don't refuse to talk about it. We are going to turn away the disagreements that we can have with the Parliamentary Group We can and with its confluences and we are going to talk about all those things that we can agree on. Mr. Churches, I offer that those things in which you and we agree but are not in agreement with Citizens, we can push them by the left-wing majorities, if they happen in the Congress of Deputies. In any case, what we can do, Mr. Churches, is to implement all those issues that are in the agreement and you share. You said you're going to vote against my investiture. That is, you are going to say no to a government of change, to progressive measures, to reformist measures led by a socialist president of government. By the way, you have been misinformed, Mr. Iglesias, in 2011 Garoña turned forty and remains open because the People's Party wants it to remain open. [[Applauds]] I'm saying that because it's important not to fool the citizenry. You do not deceive the citizens and neither do I, so it would be important for you at least to recognize that in 2011 it was the Socialist Party that proposed the closure of Garoña and that precisely those who reopened it were the People's Party and Mr Rajoy's government. If you vote no for my investiture, Mr. Iglesias, you will be voting no for the recovery of collective bargaining, you will be voting no for the recovery of ultraactivity in collective agreements, you will be voting no, Mr. Iglesias, at the end of the contracts of entrepreneurs, you will be voting no for the recovery of the subsidy for all those unemployed over fifty-two years old who are included in the agreement and who you will vote against if that is your rejection of the investiture. You will vote that no, Mr. Iglesias, to regain the universality of health, to remove the pharmaceutical co-op that Mr. Rajoy has imposed over the past four years and to remove the co-op from the dependence that Mr. Rajoy has also imposed. You will vote that not also to the recovery of the health card deadlines for many young emigrants as a result of the economic crisis. You will vote no to the stoppage of the Lomce. You will vote that not to incorporate as a right to scholarships. You will vote that not that the public prices of tuition fees are based on the income of your families and not as so far. You will also vote that, Mr Iglesias, no cultural VAT should fall to 10%. You will vote not, Mr. Iglesias, for the Citizens' Security Act to be abolished; all those regressive articles in rights and freedoms that have been approved by the absolute majority of the People's Party. You will vote that no court fees should be abolished for SMEs and self-employed people. You will vote no to a law of religious freedom and conscience that reviews the agreements between the State and the Holy See. You will vote not to strengthen the revolving doors to five years. You will vote that you do not repeal Article 315.3 by which you spoke with the eight Airbus and which we support; in the compromise and in the agreement, Mr Churches, you are repealing that article of the Criminal Code. [[Rumors.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion pronounces words that are not perceived]] You will vote no to the Climate Change Act. You will vote no to the repeal of the sun tax; tell it to your Equo colleagues, Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] Mr. Iglesias, I am very aware that last December 20 there are socialist exvoters who voted for the Party of Podemos, there are many, and I am aware that many of them voted for their formation and voted for you because they thought that with you the left could be revitalized, that together you and we could change Spain. I also tell you, Mr. Iglesias, that many of those Socialist Party voters who trusted you, do not understand your behaviour, do not understand why you are going to vote against a socialist candidate for Mr. Rajoy to remain in office. [[Mr Iglesias Turrion points to the seats of the Citizen Parliamentary Group]] Mr Iglesias, what is raised in your vote is a very easy choice: whether you continue to block inequality, imposition and corruption or unlock the situation and allow us to move forward in Spain. Mr. Churches, it's not that you can't, it's that you just don't want to. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u25	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Churches, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, let me remind you that this is an investiture debate, not an election campaign. [[Rumors and Protests]] We do not abhor your interventions. We may be new to this Parliament, but we have some respect for how an assembly, even a parliamentary assembly, has to work. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I do not want elections to be repeated in our country, but if they were repeated, since you are so eager to debate, it will be a pleasure to do so with you. You've never dared to argue with me face to face, Mr. Sanchez. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] This rostrum is to present a government program, not to play election campaigns. Let me give you some advice: I don't know if you've realized that while you intervened I was looking at you. It's one thing I've realized that old games don't do. You intervene, and you don't even pay attention. Moreover, you do not do the reply interventions according to what the previous speaker has said, but you bring home the papers. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It has been striking to listen to you with a speech that came to say: vote for us, which is not voting for the People's Party. I congratulate your advisers on the work they have done, but I ask you as a parliamentarian to discuss with me as a parliamentarian. I will strictly follow the order of what you have pointed out and which I have written down, because citizens pay us to listen to us and to debate, not to bring slogans bought from home. [[Applauds]] You have done one thing today that is serious, very serious: to use the memory of the victims of terrorism to attack a political rival. It is an attitude - and I say it to my face - wretched and improper of those who want to be president of the government. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You have done something else that resembling the attitude of the People's Party. We have seen them often use the memory of the victims to attack their rivals. You have used Catalonia, again, exactly the same as the People's Party did, to try to ensure that we do not debate the fundamental difference between us. Because we, with regard to Catalonia, are saying something very similar to what your party said two years ago. You agree with the PSC, which are having a very bad time, among other things because the positions you have imposed on them from Madrid have made them have a very negative result in Catalonia. Ask yourself why we have won you the elections in Catalonia, in Euskadi, in Madrid, in the Canary Islands, in the Balearic Islands, in Navarre, ask yourself. [[Applauds]] Perhaps, if you understood that the unity of our homeland is defended by understanding its diversity and plurinationality, you could regain the confidence of many citizens who no longer believe what you are proposing. The fundamental thing is that, although you say good words about what should be done, good words about labour reform, then it turns out that you do not want to repeal your 2010 one. Let me remind you that those workers who were arrested and attacked with a Penal Code, to which you are now opposed, were arrested by the police who were sending their Government on a general strike against the labour reform of their Government. [[Applauds]] First of all, you must assume that the 2010 labour reform must be repealed. It has been shameful to hear in the last few days, as you pointed out: we must repeal the labor reform, which mechanical orange immediately appeared to say: no, that is not in our agreement. You agree and do not pretend to deceive us once again with an agreement that does not put solutions to the problems of this country. The proof is that Mr Rivera has consistently pointed out that this pact serves to get the People's Party to agree. Even figures of what you would call extreme right-wing, such as Mr Alejo Vidal-Quadras, who is more right-wing than Millán-Astray and Mr Rajoy, have pointed out that the pact you have drawn up could make you three agree. It's been mentioning Millán-Astray and Mr. Girauta has become nervous. [[Laughter]] Don't worry, Mr. Girauta. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you have used a tone that is inappropriate for those who have ninety Members and who intend to reach an agreement. I have told you in my previous speech and I repeat it. If you want to agree with us, treat us equally, as a partner with which to share decisions. Do not treat us with that discretion, because we will not consent to it. For many decades this rostrum humiliated certain minorities who were telling the truth. Never again bipartisanship, Mr. Sanchez. Never again the arrogance of the two greats. You treat us with respect. [[Applauds]] You say that you are against the TTIP and yet I, as a Member of Parliament in Brussels and Strasbourg, saw you once again voting with the People's Party. Words are reasons and facts are love, Mr. Sánchez. If you want to prove that you are different, you will have to prove it with the facts. That is why we have asked them from the outset for guarantees. We don't trust the good words. We do not trust what you say in an electoral campaign, which immediately afterwards becomes transformed, as we have tried to explain humbly by analyzing point by point the agreement that you presented to us here. I do not care if you are more interested in what Mr Hernando says than I am, Mr Sánchez, but we are here in a parliamentary debate. [[Applauds]] It may be that you are used to that hairdo that you presented before the citizens as if this were a theater. The other day Rosana Pastor told me: do not use the word theater to call what the old parties do here, because theater is a very dignified profession. [[Applauds]] I tell you one thing, Mr Sánchez, we have come here to bring the dignity of so many people who were tired and ashamed that in this House there were people who were mistreated and not listened to. Yesterday we were surprised to see the havoc from this bench of elegant gentlemen and today we were surprised to see the forms of hooligan that many of the members of your parliamentary group had in dealing with those who intervened from this table. [[pointing out to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group]] Now shut up; all right, that's how we're doing better. [[Rumors and Protests]] That's how an assembly has to work. [[Applauds]] The humble people, the normal people, the people who often do not wear a jacket and tie and do not, as you say, look like President of the Government, could teach much more education and better forms in this House of Parliament. I'm done, Mr. Sanchez. If you want to reach an agreement with us, our hand is spread, because the interest of the Spanish citizens is that there is a government of change and progress. But with the content, with the background and with the forms, they show that you alone are not reliable. Therefore, if you want to agree with us, with guarantees, because the citizens are already sick of words, lies and want guarantees. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u27	Thank you, Mr. Churches. Mr Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u28	Mr. Churches, equal to equal, is it equal that you propose the government to the king and that the king propose it to me? Mr Iglesias, there is no left-wing majority in this parliamentary group. We're 161. Right-wing and centre-right forces represent at least 163 deputies. If you had had an absolute majority, Mr. Iglesias, who would be right now addressing the rostrum and all of you would be Mr. Rajoy and the People's Party. Therefore, do not add the left and do not add the right. Therefore, Mr. Churches, if you want to go to the elections and you want to repeat them, tell the truth to the citizenry. Unfortunately, left-wing seats do not add up to form a left-wing government. What is more, ladies and gentlemen, is the vote and the forces of change. That is what I am proposing with this agreement. Look, Mr. Rajoy... Mr. Churches... [[Laughter]] It's just that sometimes you get confused. [[Rumors]] Mr. Churches, I used to tell you. There are 200 measures in which we have reached an agreement between the Citizens' Party and the Socialist Party. Of those measures, you made a press release with eight reasons, eight reasons to vote against that agreement. I say to you, Mr. Churches, that we implement the other 182 measures or 150 measures with which we can agree your party, the Citizens' Party and the Socialist Party. That is the proposal I make to you. There are only two options, Mr. Iglesias: either change or continuity; there are only those two options, Mr. Iglesias, and that change means, I repeat it: a law of climate change, the recovery of collective bargaining, the closure of nuclear power plants, a tax on big fortunes, a 10% cultural VAT, paralyzing the Lomce, approving a minimum vital income, putting forward a new law of second chance, curbing evictions in our country and also... [[Denials of several Members of the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea]] Yes, of course, of course I do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] You, who claim to be worthy heirs of the 15-M, should ask your voters and those collectives who vote not with Mr Rajoy to paralyse all those measures that we could put in place next week. [[Applauds]] I tell you one thing, Mr. Iglesias, perhaps all these measures for you do not mean assaulting heaven, but I suggest that we at least take Spain out of hell or some hells into which Mr. Rajoy has put it. [[Applauds]] That is what I propose, Mr. Churches. [[Applauds]] I'm holding your hand - I'm going to be very brief, Mr. Iglesias -, I'm holding your hand to do here together what we agree and which is incorporated into the pact with Citizens, I'm holding your hand to set in motion in this Congress of Deputies all that you and we agree on and are not included in that agreement with Citizens. But, Mr. Iglesias, think of one thing, if today and Friday you vote not with Mr. Rajoy you will have become the same thing that you had come to change. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u29	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mr. Churches, you have three minutes exactly from the seat.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, there was a poem by Machado that said, "You've said half the truth, they'll say you lie twice if you say the other half." Let's see if you guys get along. Either we're the ETA or we're Rajoy, but both things at the same time are complicated enough, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you repeat as a mantra that there is no majority left, and I again recommend that in the assembly debates, even if it is a parliamentary assembly, it is much better to listen to one another than to carry the files prepared with the learned slogans. [[Rumors]] Believe me, Mr. Sanchez, there is a majority. If you want, I'll explain. A government of the Socialist Party, of Podemos and the confluences, of Compromís and of the United Left would obtain more votes in this House than a government of the People's Party with Citizens; and each political group that does with its votes and with its abstentions what it understands convenient. [[Rumors]] You cannot here veto anyone when you have ruled and reached government agreements with those political forces that you intend to criminalize, with which I do not want to agree to make a government. But, of course, what cannot be done, Mr Sánchez, is the square of the circle. Yesterday you said, in a praiseworthy transformation exercise, that it is possible from completely different ideologies to mix. Manu Chao sounded like, "I like Malasaña, I like you." We will mix even if we are completely different to find the middle term of virtue. Look, it is impossible for a political force with a programme like yours to agree on economic issues with a political force whose economic policy is dictated by Mr Garicano, who worked at the FAES Foundation. Precisely because it is so, the People's Party invites you to agree with them. That's what everyone who's at home understands. How can people not understand that common economic policies cannot be applied from different ideologies? Mr Sánchez, of course there could be a government of progress that would get parliamentary support. That's not the problem. The problem is that you have been forbidden to rule with us. Some of the members of his party's old guard said so. Mr Felipe González said so, yes, the one who has the past stained with living lime. Take care of him, Mr. Sanchez. [[Protests.-Various Members: Out, out!-A Member: All right!-Various Members say words that are not perceived]] Take care of him because they're bad counselors. Don't you guys... out? Are you guys yelling outside because I'm telling you the truth? [[Protests.-Several Members: Out, out!]] I know that maybe...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u31	Quiet, please. [[Protests Continue]] Silence! Wait a minute, Mr. Iglesias. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u32	We say things politely... [[Several Members say words that are not perceived.—Protests continue.]] It seems to you that you are greatly annoyed that there are people in this House who tell you some truths to their face. [[Protests]] Well, we're going to tell them the truths to their faces. We are, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, let me finish, I do not interrupt you when you take the floor from the rostrum, nor do I insult you, nor do I tell you to leave. [[Protests]] Keep your forms, not because you are educated, but at least out of respect for the citizens who are seeing us. [[Rumors and Protests]] It is pathetic to see in a House of Representatives how the person who has the floor is interrupted. [[Rumors and Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u33	Let's see...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u34	I ask for your protection, Mr President, so that I can finish my speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u35	Your time was over, Mr. Churches. [[Laughs.- Rumors and Protests]] Yeah, the three minutes were over. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u36	Dear Patxi, I didn't know we were going to tutor each other, but if we did, there's no problem. So, Patxi, I'm asking you at least fifteen seconds to finish the surgery. [[Laughs.-Applause.-Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u37	No, no. I have been more than generous - you know - in your first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u38	Mr President, now that we are back to you, I have not been able to finish my speech because the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group have prevented me from doing so. If you withdraw me from the floor, I accept it disciplinedly, but I think it is a bad precedent in this House. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u39	Mr. Iglesias, I have not withdrawn your speech. He had consumed, and enough, his time. [[Mr Iglesias Turrion speaks words that are not perceived]] I have been extremely generous in his first interventions but he had three minutes and they were already far exceeded. [[Majoral Perales speaks words that are not perceived]] You do not have the floor, therefore, silence please. In this House you can admit explosions of expressions, which sometimes translate into applause and sometimes into booing, and both are at the same level; and that appears in the sitting papers narrating the political environment that is lived here. What cannot be admitted in any way is neither insult, disqualification, nor cry out; that cannot be admitted in this House. Everyone will know when they pass that line of respect and education and end up in insult or not. Of course, the times are for the one to whom the word belongs, and the best respect and education, indeed, is silence. Let us not do anything that can prove that we are neither polite nor respectful. Let us not fall into insult or disqualification or provocation, and let us continue with this debate on the paths on which it was going before. [[Applauds]] Thank you. Mr. Candidate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Iglesias, I say to you with all due respect - not so much to the way in which you addressed my parliamentary group and my person and the history of my party - that I am very proud of Felipe González. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mr. Iglesias, I would like to remind you that between different - with the Basque Nationalist Party, for example, and with other political formations in the agreements of Ajuria Enea; or with the People's Parliamentary Group in 2000 or few dates ago in 2015 - we have always - and always with the Socialist Party in the opposition - signed great agreements to forge the unity of the Democrats against terrorism. So much so that even when Mr García-Margallo threatened in international forums saying that a government presided over by me and with you would mean the departure from Spain of the coalition against ISIS, or when the Minister of the Interior said that a government presided over by me and supported by you is what ETA wants most, do you know what my parliamentary group did, Mr. Iglesias? [[Rumors]] Request the resignation of the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because we do not play with terrorism, perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, because we have suffered it in our own ranks. That is why, Mr. Iglesias, it hurt me very much, but you saw that there was no criticism on my part when you called Mr. Otegi political prisoner, when in Spain there are no political prisoners, Mr. Iglesias; there are no political prisoners. [[Mr García-Margallo Marfil, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation in office, asked for the floor.]] You say, Mr. Churches, that this is a right-wing agreement. This is an agreement which, on 27 February, voted 80% of the militancy that came to the polls. Why don't you make your militants vote yes or no for a Socialist Party candidate for this investiture, Mr. Iglesias? [[A honourable Member: Because there is no agreement.- Rumors]] I'll tell you not to fool the Spaniards, Mr. Iglesias. Unfortunately, there are no major leftists in this country. There is no left majority in this House. We are 161 Members and we would have 163 Members in front of us, unless you, Mr. Iglesias, want to make Spain's governability rest in Republican Esquerra and in Democrácia i Llibertat. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Oh!]] With all due respect to Esquerra Republicana and Democrácia i Llibertat, ladies and gentlemen, we do not share the same project. You want to break the Constitution and you want Catalonia's independence, and we don't want that, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, with all due respect, Mr. Iglesias, what I wonder is whether Democracy and Llibertat is more or less right-wing than the Citizens' Party. Are you more or less right-handed? More or less reliable? Mr. Iglesias, we share constitutional values with Citizens and I believe that many of your voters also share them. You come here to give us lessons from the left and you've taken some sentences from the hemeroteca. I'm not going to use the hemeroteca. I will simply remind you that it was you in the newspaper El País who said that playing left and right was a game of trilers, Mr. Iglesias. [[Mr Iglesias Turrion speaks words that are not perceived]] That is why I tell you, Mr. Iglesias, that we should give change a chance. I am holding hands with him so that we can make this government of change from now on, because the anti-discharge collectives, the people who are suffering from the crisis, the people who are suffering from the social emergency, the people who are suffering from poverty, the middle and working class that the People's Party has sunk with its cruel and ineffective measures, do not deserve another hour of Mr Rajoy's government, even if it is in office. Give a chance and give a chance to change, Mr. Churches. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u41	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Mr García-Margallo has asked for the floor, I suppose by allusions, a situation which is recognised in Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, in fact, whenever there have been value judgments or inaccuracies. Therefore, you have three minutes to explain what are the inaccuracies or value judgments.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u42	Mr President, the candidate has been making serious savings for over a month with the truth about the statements I made. It is recorded and reproduced several times. On the margins, i.e. in the corridors of a coalition meeting, never in the formal forum, I was asked what would be the attitude of a hypothetical coalition government between the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and Podemos. I said that there were serious differences between those two political forces. The Socialist Party, and I said so, was always loyal in the conduct of the coalition. The party of Mr Iglesias, Podemos, in his Peace Council is clearly opposed to the military actions carried out by the military coalition in Syria and Iraq and, eventually, in the future, if decided, in Libya. The only thing I said was that if there is a coalition government it would be good to know which of the theses of the two parties that make up that government - to which, by the way, the United Left was added in a position similar to that of Mr. Iglesias - will prevail. Therefore, Mr Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, your party had the opportunity to ask me about this in my appearance at the Foreign Committee in which I was four hours. They did not dare to do so on open ground and want to do it in a twist, believing that one cannot act by allusions. Mr President, what the Secretary-General has said is false of all falsehood; either he knows it and he is making savings from the truth, or he does not know it and he does not have the category to be a candidate, improvising in this way on such a serious issue. [[Rumors.-Applause.-The Minister of the Interior in office, Fernández Díaz, asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u43	That was a judgment of value. Mr. García-Margallo. It went well in the round of allusions, until it has actually introduced a value judgment that should not have been within this round. [[Rumors]] Therefore, economicize the shifts too when it is up to you to be faithful to the truth. Mr Fernández Díaz, for allusions too. [[Rumors]] Strictly, given the precedent, you have the floor to see where the value judgment is or where the falsehood is.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u44	First of all, thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor on the basis of Rule 71.1 of the Rules of Procedure, in such an important debate as this, as is the statement put on my lips by the candidate for the Presidency of the Government in this debate of investiture. In a telephone interview I was asked about ETA. I, under the premise that ETA is defeated operationally and policely and that it is essentially in prisons because what remains of ETA are its prisoners, said that in a possible coalition government of the Socialist Party with Podemos and United Left, and known the political positions - they are legitimate - regarding Podemos and United Left in relation to the prison policy of dispersion, it was evident that the prisoners of ETA - who are today ETA -, from their perspective, were looking for a government that would change the prison policy, that would allow the rapprochement of prisoners to the Basque Country and their progressive release. [[Rumors]] I repeated that and clarified it in subsequent press briefings and interviews in which I was questioned. I therefore ask the candidate for the presidency of the Government not to put in my mouth words that I did not say because I then said that I did not doubt the loyalty of the Socialist Party to the anti-terrorist policy, which is a state policy. Thank you very much. [[The candidate for the Presidency of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u45	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Díaz. We continue with the plenary session. Mr. Candidate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not want to go into a referendum, but simply to recall some of the assessments made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for example. You said: 'I was obliged to inform my colleagues yesterday in Rome that with a possible coalition government of the Socialist Party with Podemos, if the second thesis prevailed, Spain could be the country that would abandon the international coalition in which we are all engaged'. [[Rumors]] As you can see, these are not minor issues. What I am saying to you, Mr García-Margallo and Mr Fernández Díaz, is that it was enough to have the fear that you would lose power to re-use terrorism as an electoral weapon.The most serious of all, do you know what it is, Ministers in office? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] They did not count on the reprobation of the current President of the Government in office. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u47	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. It is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. Mr Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, guests, citizens and citizens who follow us from home, the truth is that it is a pride to come up to this rostrum and represent three and a half million Spaniards. It is an honor to be here, in this house where so many things have happened in the history of Spain, where there have been seated statesmen, where there have been very important debates and where debate, dialogue, concord, has been forged during the transition. They were statesmen who knew how to park what differentiated them and they knew how to put together what united them; statesmen who came from exile; statesmen who were during the dictatorship and knew that the time had come for democracy; statesmen who parked all the conflicts to put on the table what united them in a democratic constitution that has given us the best years of our history, from the Communist Party to the Socialist Party, passing through the UCD, with President Suárez at the front, and with Mr Fraga in the People's Alliance. Those parties - also counting on the nationalist parties that at that time wanted to be part of Spanish democracy, which at that time were even, like Roca Junyent, parents of the Constitution - showed that there were men who were up to the occasion. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what the Spaniards are asking us today is that at least we look a little bit like those men and women who were up to it. I do not know whether with today's debate, some speeches and some screams, we are getting it. I intend, without shouts, without insults, without moral lessons, without Democratic cards, to try to convince the Spaniards that we have a great opportunity at the front. Look, there are people who see difficulty as an impossibility, and there are people who see difficulty as an opportunity. I'm second-rate, and so is my team. I am proud to represent 40 women/men who represent people with courage, courage, generosity; people who know what has come: to work for the Spaniards. I say one thing to you: we have to redo the Spanish joint project, but we have to do it by the 350 Members who are here, no matter how much they yell at each other and no matter how much they disrespect each other. So let's put on the batteries, because the Spaniards pay us the salary; the bosses are the citizens, not us. So let's get to work for Spain and less for our games. [[Rumors]] We will open a new democratic stage, a new stage to collect the best of the transition but renew our common project. The challenges of the transition were clear: the fear of dictatorship, the fear of lack of freedoms and the dream of democracy; the dream of coexistence between different but equal before the law. It's something like that today. Today we have to recover the middle class and working class of Spain, which has broken with this very hard crisis that we are going through. There are those who do not want to recognize it, who say that everything is going well, but there are millions of Spaniards who do not arrive at the end of the month. There are millions of Spaniards who work and are poor; there are millions of businesses and self-employed entrepreneurs who have had to close their business and just want to get up again; there are millions of pensioners who have been heroes helping their grandchildren and their families to pass this harsh crisis. So let us live up to all those Spaniards who want an education - although it is not shown in this House at times - clearly better than we have. [[our officials, our public servants, our elders, our young people]] We will therefore all work together for this new stage, which requires the recovery of the middle and working class, which is the main objective of the plan, from the agreement reached by the Socialist and Citizens' Party. Retrieve the success of Spain. The Spanish miracle was never growing to 2% or 3% of GDP. The Spanish miracle was to have a strong middle class and a strong working class and a consolidated democracy. So let's do another miracle, a Spanish miracle that redistributes the wealth we have and above all that puts us at the head of innovation, education and a knowledge economy. We therefore need changes. We didn't come here to keep everything the same. In that 200-reform document, there are some that had never been heard in this House because they never wanted, some of you, this to come to this House. Today, what civil society wanted, what they were manifesto or banners, were changes in a government document. I'm proud of all that. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you what. I know that some of you think that the Spaniards have made a mistake in voting. I'm not the one who thinks that. I think those who don't know how to read the election result are wrong, they're wrong. They are wrong because they think that the Spanish have changed their vote and there are parties that have lost a third of their voters, others that have drawn the worst result in history and some think that nothing has happened. Look, there are 9 million Spaniards who have voted for two new political parties in this House. Do you think that little 9 million Spaniards, who are as much as those who have been able to agree on that pact between the Socialist Party and Citizens? We had two options ahead: either to look for differences with the Socialist Party or to look for points that united us. Of course there are differences, we are two different parties: a European socialist party, with a Europeanist and constitutionalist vocation; and a democratic and liberal, Europeanist and constitutionalist party, what in Europe they call, in short, the centre and the left. By the way, this is how it is governed in seven countries of the European Union. Is it something so strange? Is it that weird? Twenty-one of the countries of the European Union are governed in coalition, governed by various parties. I say one thing, to those who give laziness to dialogue, to those who only know how to shout, very dark times come, times of difficulty of understanding of what Spain asks. To those who think this is going black or white, to those who give lessons to others and feel too important come very difficult times, because here no one is going to win, here we are all going to have to give in. No one here can stand up to victory in the face of defeat. Here, as in the Transition, there will be neither winners nor losers; here there will be a better democracy, a reform of our country and a working middle class who will once again feel proud of their institutions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are privileged, history has allowed us to represent the Spanish people and we have a golden opportunity in front of us that we cannot miss. I insist, there are pessimistic people who see everything black. I'm optimistic, as Churchill said, because it's the most useful thing, because otherwise it's useless. So, let's try. Citizens could have chosen to stay in a newly arrived corner of the House, with 40 seats, without any experience in this House but with political experience, and say: listen, fight between you, red and blue, and we eat popcorn from the rostrum. We have not, we have fallen to the sand because we are paid the salary to solve problems for the Spaniards, who already have enough with politics in Spain. So I've come here with my classmates to solve problems. It seems to me that the best thing that can happen to Spain is that there is change, that there is change in politics and in government, but also that there is dialogue, because no one can govern alone. Do any of you have an absolute majority? Isn't that right? Can any of you rule without agreeing with those in the next or front seat? Isn't that right? What if we are a little more humble all together and stop talking from arrogance and superiority and go down to the lesson that the Spaniards have given us: change, dialogue and work? That's what we've come to Citizens; we're privileged, and that's how we understand it. The chiefs, the citizens, look at us waiting for solutions; not waiting for reproach, not waiting for more problems, which is what they have seen in recent years. We will therefore rise to the occasion and try to find an agreement; an agreement that has laid the foundations for the reforms that Spain needs after thirty years. Mr Rajoy, there are no five points of agreement - those are the ones you sent me, five - there are 200 reforms, which are the ones we have agreed between the Socialist Party and Citizens. Better? Sure. What are some things that can be added? We're willing to talk about it. What we are not willing to do is deny ourselves simply because of who is the president or who is the minister of duty, which seems to be what is at stake here. I care less about who is the president of Spain and I care more about Spain; I care less about who is the minister of education and more about having a good education. [[Applauds]] So stop fighting for the chairs and fight for the Spaniards; stop fighting for who the Minister of Education is and let's make a national pact for education; stop fighting for whether the judge is conservative or progressive and we have an independent justice; stop fighting, in short, for his acronyms - I would say sometimes not for his acronyms, but for his environment and his bunker - and start thinking about the Spanish set. So failure, gentlemen, is not an option; the only option is to get out of it with a government with reforms under its arm and with a legislature that puts Spain and the Spaniards, who are its top shareholders - those who really defend and represent the brand Spain - in the right place. We have made a number of proposals, contained in that agreement, which speak of Spain's main problems. The first problem in Spain, gentlemen, is unemployment, but knowing that 93% of last year's contracts are temporary. So not only do we have a 21 % unemployment problem, which has just risen, by the way. If we go so well, I don't settle for 21% unemployment. I do not settle for being the most unemployed country in Europe. Why are the Spanish, together with Greece, the most unemployed country? Have we Spaniards done anything or is it that our active employment policies, our job contract models, our job model doesn't work? Have we done anything wrong with the Spaniards? Yes, labour policies, an absolute failure in recent years. Why does Citizens propose a new model of labour relations? First, to balance the relationship between worker and company, because there is no economic revival if there are no workers and companies who agree. Second, more rights for those who have temporary contracts, for people who have to have stability and not enter and exit the labour market. Thirdly, stability, which is what we want, so that people can organize their lives around this new framework of work. And more rights: an Austrian backpack that will allow Spaniards to move from companies with rights that they can take with them. Therefore, a plan against unemployment and against precariousness - we cannot conform to the data we see - but also a plan against poverty, because there are Spaniards who have no income and we have to give urgent response - a social emergency plan - but there are also Spaniards who are looking for work or going to work and are poor. [[750,000 families]] Surely there are people who are listening to us that does not arrive at the end of the month despite working, can we settle, ladies and gentlemen, with that data? Can we settle for 7 million Spaniards in a precarious situation? Can we settle with self-employed people who can't pay either the self-employed fee or lift their blind and have to close their business? Well, look, that's going to change, because here there's a €7 billion poverty plan, but there's finally a self-reform plan. Let me bar for home: I am the son, grandson and nephew of self-employed people and I am proud of the measure and reform on self-employed people contained in this agreement. They are the engine of this country, because the self-employed have, as my father would say, the worst of being workers and the worst of being entrepreneurs, because they are workers and entrepreneurs but with fewer rights than workers and more difficulties than entrepreneurs. So we're going to do a deep reform of the self-employed so that those 3.5 million entrepreneurs, dreamers, can get up, if they've fallen, and they can keep working so they don't pay that share of self-employed. That of the self-employed is a fundamental reform so that they do not pay the self-employed who do not arrive at the end of the month, so that it is only 45 euros and not 280 the quota of self-employed; it is also the law of second chance, because the one who has fallen has the right to get up, because banks and boxes have also fallen Catalonia and well that we have rescued them. Don't you have the right to rescue yourself? [[Rumors]] No, do not say that it is because the main debt - those who have worked outside of politics know it - is with the public administration, with Mr Montoro and with Social Security. [[Applauds]] , and in that second chance law is not included. We are also going to talk about education, of course, education in this House and education in our classrooms and for our future. We want the laws of the PP and the PSOE of education to be abolished. We are going to make a national plan for education throughout Spain, a plan that puts in agreement with those who do not respect themselves - it is difficult, but let us respect at least our children, our teachers and their parents - a plan in which everyone is in; if it takes a year, then a year, and if it takes a year and a half, a year and a half, but it is enough of Logse, LOE, Lomce and every reform with every party that comes. Spain is at the tail of the OECD in school failure and we cannot be proud of that data. Our universities have to be linked, yes or no, to employability and to generating jobs and no more youth unemployment. We therefore need to reform deeply by incorporating English as a vehicle language throughout Spain, of course. We will give tools, not only to those who go to schools that can be allowed, but also in public education so that the parents of Spain can see how their children study in Spanish, but also in English and in the official languages. That's the model of this pact. We want an MIR for teachers. The profession of teacher is the most important of a nation and, at the same time, we also have to be demanding. Therefore, rights and protection of teachers and also demand and level for that profession, which for me is, I insist, the most important in this country. As far as health is concerned, we have already talked about it: that the Spaniards can move around the national territory with a health card not with seventeen. Many Spaniards who are seeing us know that they have administrative and bureaucratic difficulties. We want a Spaniard to be able to go with the DNI anywhere in Spain and not have to present anything more than his DNI or his residence permit. That's what we want: a health for all Spaniards alike, which is what we still don't have today. We also propose a pact for equality, to combat gender-based violence but also to combat bullying, school harassment and domestic violence. We need a real equality plan, so for the first time in Spain, maternity and paternity leave is going to be twenty-six weeks; good news for many people who have trouble working and at the same time caring for their children, for many people who want equality. [[Applauds]] Maybe they're very wrong in Sweden, but I think we're more wrong. One cannot fill one's mouth to speak of birth if one does not take steps so that people can have children and above all to reconcile their family life, because I tell you one thing, the most productive thing there is to work in a company and reconcile life is to be happy, and being happy is a necessary condition to be comfortable working in a company and to care for your children; therefore, happiness and productivity go hand in hand, and if we are not able to share time, to help our children, to dedicate ourselves to those we most want, we will not be able to reform this country, so we will also put equality of truth with deeds and not with words in motherhood and fatherhood. Taxes. The tax agreement would sum it up in one sentence: we are not going to crush the Spanish with more taxes. That's enough. [[Applauds]] The rates of IRPF, the rates of VAT, except for the cultural VAT that will fall, the rates of corporation tax will be the same. We are going to make a more effective, more compact tax system that allows us to collect, but not to make tax amnesties as Mr Montoro likes, but to make the defrauders pay and those who comply have a prize, Mr Montoro. We are going to make a plan against tax fraud so that the 2.8 billion that the Barcenas, Pujol or Rodrigo Rato evaded thanks to the tax amnesty of the People's Party return to the public coffers, because those who paid more VAT and paid more IRPF are entitled to be returned their money and dignity, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] Therefore, the best fiscal policy will be for fraudsters to pay and for those who pay to have a prize. Call us revolutionaries, but I see it that way. Therefore, we are going to make a fiscal policy where tax fraud is not assumed by the Minister of Finance, but rather that it is fought against, an absolute revolution in the current government of Spain. Economy, yes, economy linked to R & D+i, education and knowledge. Our economy cannot continue to depend on job insecurity, it cannot continue to depend today, as we see, on sectors that are down; therefore, we need to diversify our economy, an economy linked to something that has deeply despised this government, which is innovation and science, innovation and science linked to our economy, because Spain does not want or can compete with underdeveloped countries. I don't want to compete with low wages and low productivity. I want to compete with decent wages and productivity, innovation and science in our economic model. For that, Mr. Iglesias - also call me revolutionary - we thought that an economist at the London School of Economics is better than Mr. Currency to carry the economy of Spain. [[Applauds]] So call me classic, but to carry the economy a prestigious economist seems to me a reasonable thing. I know you like it more than any other kind of scenario, raising taxes, smashing the middle class, more cuts, getting out of the euro, but that's an old policy, with new but very old looks. [[Mr. Turrion Churches makes negative gestures]] That's already happened. More tax pressure, out, in short, with the risk premium triggered, more cuts, and then I guess you'll blame, as always, others. No, we're going to make a reasonable economic fiscal policy. We are going to negotiate with Europe the deficit, but not to breach it as your friend Tsipras, but to fulfil it. [[Mr. Turrion Churches makes negative gestures again]] Thus, the model of Citizens is neither Greece nor Venezuela. The model of Citizens is Germany, it is Denmark, it is Sweden, it is the center of Europe, they are the most modern policies in the world, not the most caspora in the world. [[Applauds]] We are therefore carrying out two hundred reforms, so that the middle class can recover, to have a productive economy and also to fight corruption and for transparency. I know that in this House some of the things I am going to say here have never been heard: to put an end to the strangulations, yes, to put an end to the strangulations. [[Applauds]] We don't want any privileges for us either. We want all of us to go to justice like everyone else; that is why we want to abolish the strangulations. Limit the term of office of the President of the Government to eight years. Primarys, Mr. Hernando, what you say is American films. Well, look, I'm watching TV these days and it's not movies: it's true. There are primaries in the political parties, it's amazing, so primaries in the parties, ending the stumbling blocks, limiting the mandates to eight years. [[Applauds]] An electoral law, see what is so strange, where votes are equally valid, an electoral law where people can choose parties and people. What a strange thing that Europeans and Americans do! Right, Mr. Hernando? [[Applauds]] Of course, continue to make progress in European construction. We do not like to see some parties in this House vote to destroy the euro. We do not like to see how some parties in this House want to side with those who do not want Europe to take steps forward. We believe in the United States of Europe, and the Socialist and Citizens' Party are two European parties that are committed to this agreement with the progress of the European Union, as, by the way, I am convinced that so will the members of the People's Party, who are also, is a European party, a party, by the way, which rules in Europe with agreements of our group and with agreements of the Social Democratic Group. It will not be so strange what is happening in Europe! Finally, the defense also of the union of all Spaniards. [[Rumors]] Article 1 of the Constitution, Mr. Iglesias, is not wet paper. Article 1 of the Constitution states that you, me and all Spanish citizens are equal and we all decide on our country. That is explicitly reflected in the agreement and I know that you, although you do not say so, do not like this agreement basically because you cannot comply with all the groups that are within your group, as we have seen. [[Mr Errejón Galvan utters words that are not perceived]] I know that Mrs Colau, who would like to make a referendum for the Mareas and other groups so that Galicia, Catalonia and the Basque Country would cease to be part of Spain, but we are not going to allow it, we are not going to allow it because it is in this agreement, and in that most of this House and most of the Spaniards agree. [[Applauds]] I also tell you one thing: immobilism does not serve us. We must reform the Constitution, update it in due course, a success of the Constitution that deserves updating and that deserves to be agreed by the majority. I used to ask a member of the People's Party from his seat or Mr. Rajoy would say: with what votes will they reform the Constitution? I hope that with yours. Or are they going to do it like in 1978? I hope that with yours. Because the UCD and the Socialist Party and some members of the People's Alliance were in favour. Others stayed on the sidelines. I invite you to participate also this time in the reform of our Constitution. Do not remain like some members of the People's Alliance outside of political centrality. Summarize, because the constitutional reform has to count - and I also, of course, count on the 7 million voters of the People's Party. So the constitutional reform will be done to fix Spain, not to break it. It will be done with everyone, with the maximum number of Members of this House. I also wanted to talk about Catalonia, which is my land and part of this country. [[Mr Rivera Díaz continues his speech in Catalan.-Rumores.-A honourable Member. Visca Catalunya free!]] Free from corruption; Visca Catalunya free from corruption. [[Applauds]] We are therefore going to talk about autonomous financing, of course, of public services and infrastructure. We are going to talk about specific issues, but I also want to say one thing: dialogue, yes; blackmail, none. Constitutional reform, of course. Declaration of independence, never, never with the parties that are part of this agreement and never, I hope, with the People's Party, that it will vote the same as the Republican Left. [[Laughter]] This is the agreement we have presented. I have not asked for the floor for allusions, but it is clear that they have been made, because Mr. Iglesias has spoken more about us than about Mr. Rajoy. It's curious. He's more concerned about'mechanical orange' than about PP. It's a very weird thing. [[Applauds]] It's okay. I get it, I get the clamp, but it seemed a little strange to me. [[Laughter]] I wanted to address Mr Rajoy, President-in-Office, and talk about some of the things he said. Mr Rajoy, I would like to acknowledge that you have done well in your stage of government. I would like to acknowledge that you have been in politics for many years and that, like everyone else, you have done things well and things not so well. I would like to acknowledge the work done at the head of this Government in everything that has done well, but I would also like to say that there are things that have not been done well. Otherwise, surely, almost 4 million voters would not have left him. So, Mr Rajoy, if we have to make a national pact for education, if we have to depolitize justice, if we have to end the outbursts - you have Rita Barberá in the Senate -, if we have to reform the public administration and you say that in no way, if we have to reform the autonomous regime and you have not done so, if we have to change the Electoral Law and you do not want to, if we have to make primary in the parties and you hate them, I wonder: can you give me one reason, one, for the Spaniards to trust you to lead a new political stage? One reason, give me one. I can't find any. [[Applauds]] I recognize the hard work you've had to do. A country with a 9 % government deficit was found and has left it at 5 %. He has made difficult decisions, I am sure, I recognize his work and I also count on the voters and militants of the People's Party for the great reforms of this country, because with our humble position we will always have the hand stretched out, although you no longer want to meet with us. Mr. Rajoy, you told him no to the king, and that was your decision, not Citizens'. You said no to all these reforms by absolute majority. So why do we have to believe the Spaniards that everything you didn't want to do without having to count on anyone now is going to do counting on three games and heading it up you? Mr Rajoy, I am convinced that there are very valid people in the People's Party. I am convinced that your voters want part of these reforms. I am convinced that there are people in your party who want to fight corruption, which you have not, of course, done. But I am also convinced that a new political stage deserves courage, deserves courage, deserves leadership and deserves generosity and I believe that you, Mr Rajoy, for these times that run, with all that you have not done and with all that you do not want to do, prove that they are other times. It shows that a time is over where the themes do not rot simply because time passes. Now we have to act, now we have to deal with the debates, now we have to have leadership, now we have to build bridges with the opposition or with the government, so for this new stage, Mr Rajoy, as I said before, I think those who are not prepared to reform Spain are going to have a hard time and are going to have a hard time. So, Mr Rajoy, I don't think you're credible in leading this new political stage. I do not know whether Mr Sánchez will finally draw support today or not or in the next round, but what I am convinced is that you cannot lead this new political stage, because you are basically coherent, because you do not believe in these reforms. You despise that Spain has to be reformed and I believe that the best way to guarantee the union of the Spaniards and to ensure that this middle class recovers is by reforming Spain. So it's not time to say no to the king, it's not time for laziness, it's not time for a word, Mr. Rajoy. It is a time of action, of men and women of action, of men and women who want to change their country to work and remain united. I invite all the voters of the People's Party and many of its leaders, who I know also want to join this new political stage, to have courage and courage, to have a lot of good people, a lot of prepared people and a lot of people who want to join this new stage. I count on them, as I hope you will count on us and on the Socialist Party or on Podemos, because we are all the ones who have to fix this country. There will be no black men or anyone to fix Spain. We're going to have to do it among all of us, so, Mr. Rajoy, I'm convinced that the reading of the result is change, the reading of the result is dialogue... [[Applauds]] [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rajoy Brey, spoke words that were not perceived.]] You alluded to me too, Mr. Rajoy. It's okay, it's a debate, it's okay. Therefore, it is time for change, it is time for dialogue and it is also time to shake hands to reform Spain. Although you no longer want to meet Citizens, because you do not like what we propose to you, although you do not want to say no to the king, I invite the People's Party to join this new stage, because they are necessary, because they have a majority in the Senate, because they have to join us in reforming the Constitution, because there are valid people and constitutionalist people who are part of the vast majority of Spaniards. I think you have to be part of this. On the other hand, I have seen Mr. Iglesias outraged, but this time I have seen him outraged in relation to the CNI, the police, public television, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, all the social issues in the final analysis, as you know, of a government. [[Applauds]] I've seen him outraged because there's no assault on power. It's a deal there is. You don't like it. [[Mr Errejón Galván: The majority of the House neither!]] I understand he doesn't like it, but accept it. Accept that asking a candidate the vice-presidency and six ministries when he is meeting with the king is not the best way - as you say, brotherly - to reach an agreement, I say. [[Applauds]] I know you want to distribute ministries. You've handed over the vice-president, you've left your wallets. I don't know if the Ministry of the Interior is going to give it to Otegi, the great hero, as you said on social media. [[Applauds]] A man of peace for you would be a good person for Minister of the Interior. I never want to be in that government, I tell you. Mr. Churches, there is no referendum. There's democracy. There's reform. There's no division. There's a union. There are no pulses to Europe, but negotiations with Europe, which is what we are going to do from this government. Of course you have the right to be outraged, but you also have to accept that others are not outraged, we are delighted with the new political stage that Spain is experiencing. Therefore, gentlemen, it is time for changes, but it is time to get wet by voting. I know that in this House there will be people who will vote not so that this does not work, will vote not to prevent Spain from getting to work. I invite you if you say no to the king or if you say no not to have seven ministerial portfolios, at least, even if you shake hands, let us try to work others. I do not say to you at this point that you are joining us, because you have already said that you are not joining us, but let us others work, let us start working Spain. That's all I'm telling you. I do not ask you to agree on everything or to join that agreement. I ask you to let us work for Spain. I think you're going to have to explain to the Spaniards why Spain doesn't get going and the king is going to have to explain to you again why he said no and he's going to say no again, because he has the same seats. [[Laughter and applause]] In this regard, I ask you to respect an agreement that represents 9 million Spaniards and that respects 7 million Spaniards. As respectable are, Mr Rajoy, the 7 million Spaniards who voted for the People's Party as the 9 million voters in this agreement. I say they're just as respectable, at least; they're more, but they're just as respectable. So, I respect you. And, of course, Mr. Rajoy, what do you prefer? A government with Mr. Iglesias as Vice-President, a government with separatist referendums or a government where Citizens can be incorporated with this government agreement, a constitutionalist government, a government that guarantees economic stability? What do you prefer, the worse, the better? Is that what you prefer, the worse, the better? [[Mr. Errejón Galván: That's it]] Well, I don't believe in that, Mr. Rajoy. I think the better, the better, and I invite you to reflect on that position that only leads to that strange clamp between Podemos and the People's Party, which few voters will understand, and between the separatist parties. Think, Mr Rajoy, that you will vote the same as Esquerra Republicana, Bildu or Mr Pablo Iglesias. Something you may be doing wrong, I say, so that this government does not come into being. I'm finishing the speech, President. I used to tell them failure is not an option. Spain's major agreements have always been reached since the dialogue. The Constitution of Cadiz, the 1978 Constitution, the Moncloa Pacts, the Toledo Pacts, the Counter-Terrorism and Freedom Pact or the jihadism Pact have always come under the control of major State agreements. I ask you: why is the agreement between Citizens and the PSOE not of State, but if the agreement is of the PP and the PSOE is of State? Maybe they're both state. It's just that you don't accept or want to change many of the things that are included here. We therefore need state agreements, we will do so between reasonable parties, between moderate parties, parties calling for dialogue, and we ask you to join that agreement. I insist, agreements are always success and generosity, success and surrender. This agreement is not one hundred percent of the Socialist Party's program or the Citizens' program. It is the conjunction of two hundred reforms necessary for Spain that I am convinced that many of the voters even from the People's Party or Podemos share. Winston Churchill said that the problem of our time is that there are men who do not want to be useful but important. Well, look, I'd rather be useful than important, because maybe some people think it's very important, but they're not very useful for Spanish democracy. I prefer to be useful or, as Mr Hernando said, correveidile, pichón, Naranjito, mechanical orange, all those flattery. You understand that I am a Catalan constitutionalist and I find it flattering with everything I have had to endure for ten years. [[Several Members: Oh!]] I know that you from here have seen it differently and ruled with Mr Pujol, I know, already, already. [[Applauds]] Those state agreements in the Majestic with Mr. Pujol and his family. [[Rumors]] But others see in this - calm, if I finish - an opportunity, an opportunity in the face of difficulty, and, as I said to them, I prefer to be useful to the Spaniards than to believe me important. I prefer to be useful to my compatriots than to be very important, but not to implement the reforms that Spain needs. I prefer to be useful, because at this time, perhaps being useful is the most important thing, so reflect on those who feel very important, but who are not being useful to the Spaniards today. I also want to tell you that it is not time for pessimists but for optimists. It is not time for people to think that everything is impossible, but for people to think about what needs to be done to make it possible. That's what we're going to do from Citizens. Today we have a better agreement than there was, but there are no seats and, above all, there is a lack of political will and a sense of state, which is what is lacking in this House right now. [[A Member of Parliament: Welcome!]] Let's see if we can add more people to that sense of state. Therefore, we cannot fail the Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot tell them that they have been wrong to vote, to give it back to the drum and to vote again. We have to tell them we're going to work for them. We cannot continue in the ideological trench, but we must go down to the sand to reach agreements, and we cannot allow this country to decompose by passivity or laziness. It is time for action, it is time for dialogue and it is time for courage and courage to change things. Things never change from laziness to cowardice. They always change from courage and courage. To conclude my speech, I would like to quote a phrase from President Suárez, who said that life always gives you two options, the comfortable and the difficult. He said that we chose the difficult one so as not to have the doubt that comfort had chosen for us. Well, look, ten years ago a civil platform of brave people called Ciutadans de Catalunya chose the difficult path, face up and defend the freedom, equality and union of all Spaniards where some wanted to break it. We chose the difficult path, but as it has been seen that we led the opposition - some have not counted the votes well - we chose the right path and I am proud of it. Now that we entered Congress two months ago alone, we had the same options, the comfort, which is what some have chosen, do nothing, let go of time, or the difficulty, which is to go down to the sand, get to talk to those who do not think the same and try to put in common what unites us. The comfort today, ladies and gentlemen, is to stay in a corner, scream a lot and vote no. The difficult thing today and the brave thing is to go down to the sand, make resignations, agree and vote yes. So, gentlemen, as President Suárez said, my colleagues and I have chosen the difficult path, but it is certainly the right path. Thank you very much. [[The President-in-Office, Mr Rajoy Brey, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u49	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. Mr Rajoy has asked for the floor, I suppose by allusions too, and I will give it to him, of course, but allow me a general reflection. [[Rumors]] We are in the investiture debate, possibly the most important debate in each of the legislatures. These debates obviously review what has been the past, make a diagnosis of the present, make projections and bets on the future and make permanent calls from one another, because the debate is alive, and so it has to be, but these calls cannot give rise to a permanent round of allusions, because then we would be perverting the meaning of the debate itself. [[Rumors]] That is to say, I am announcing that I will give that turn for allusions, but I will not give many more, not to say any more, because we would be perverting the debate, unless there are certainly falsehoods or judgments of value. Mr Rajoy, you have the floor for three minutes, as is the case with these shifts.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u50	Mr President, I think you are right and thank you very much for giving me the floor. I have been referred to, as Mr Rivera does not ignore, on successive occasions throughout his speech. I just wanted to tell you two or three things using the same tone that you've used to address me. He used the word respect. He said: I speak of you with respect. I'm going to talk to you with respect, too. You are in favour of Mr Sánchez being the President of the Government. [[Rumors]] I respect that, but you have to respect that I understand that Mr Sánchez should not be the President of the Government. If you, your deputies and your voters want to give your votes to the Socialist Party, I respect it, but the People's Party has not run for election or won them to make Mr Sánchez president of the government. [[Applauds]] You are in your full right to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u51	Mr Rajoy, you know perfectly well that this intervention does not fall within the scope of allusions. [[Protests]] It seems obvious that there has to be value or false judgment, as it appears in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, help yourself to that sense.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u52	I want to explain to Mr Rivera that I am not in favour of voting for Mr Sánchez because I am not in favour of how the imposture has developed. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] I am not in favour, no, and, above all, because I am not in favour of the repeal of all the economic policy that was good for Spain. If you want to repeal all the economic policy that has been done in these four years, make Mr Sánchez president. If you want taxes to go up, if you want to abolish the deputies, make Mr Sánchez president,...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u53	Mr. Rajoy.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u54	...but don't make me vote for Mr. Sanchez. That's what you do because you want to. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u55	Mr Rajoy, you know that you have made an intervention which does not comply with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure at all. [[Rumors]] No, and they know it perfectly well. Let's keep going. Mr. Candidate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u56	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rajoy could be intervening from this rostrum if he had the courage and courage to appear at the investiture. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] So, to your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, and in particular to your lordship, Mr Rajoy, all I ask is that you do not criticize those who have once again launched the clock of democracy and have unblocked the situation in which you have joined Spain. [[The lady]] I also wanted to thank publicly once again the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and its president, Albert Rivera, for their readiness for the agreement, for the dialogue. Indeed, as he has said, we are a humble group, because we have only 90 seats, an ambitious group, because we want to lead, together with other forces of change, that change that Spanish and Spanish want and for which they voted last December 20. As Mr Rivera has said, it is true that the agreement we bring to your consideration and vote is not the Socialist Party's electoral programme, nor is it the Citizens' electoral programme. On the contrary. It was clear, ladies and gentlemen, in the election campaign that the socialist programme is not the same as the Citizens' programme, but what we have done in that dialogue for the past month to this part, which has not been done by anyone else in these two long months of the legislature since the last elections, has been to dialogue and agree on more than two hundred measures that will benefit the well-being of the citizens. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and Mr President of that group, Mr Rivera, I thank you for your courage, courage and courage. I will also tell you, as I believe it is the majority feeling of the Spaniards, that what the Spaniards want is already urgently a government that will propitiate that change, and here is an agreement to propitiate that change and to build that government. It is true that there are many fundamental elements that represent a radical change to some of the policies that the current Government has put into operation, for example in the area of employment. Today we have seen, Mr Rajoy, that the figures for unemployment in social security have increased again - of course, very worrying the data, above all, of female unemployment, which represents 55% of that unemployment right now in our country -; how has the rate of unemployed people who do not have any type of benefit increased too, because the rate of unemployment benefit coverage has fallen. I therefore believe that it is good news for many of these unemployed people right now without any benefit that one of the main conclusions or measures of the agreement that we have signed by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group is to recover the unemployment benefit for those over fifty-two years old. I said it yesterday in the investiture speech, ladies and gentlemen, and I say it again today. Growing to 3% of GDP and having almost 5 million unemployed and unemployed is the living proof, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, of his failure in labour and economic policy. There are some, ladies and gentlemen, who say that the socio-occupational measures included in this agreement are not left-wing, but I do say that they are measures of justice, of social justice that the self-employed want, for which what we are going to do in this agreement, for those who cover below the minimum inter-professional wage, is a social security contribution of EUR 45. That is reflected in this agreement. This agreement also shortens the time for temporary recruitment to two years, and in the second year the period of compensation is increased to sixteen days. If that - I do not know whether it is right or left, what I think is social justice - is a measure, gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of Podemos, right, that they ask employers, whether cutting temporary recruitment to two years is a measure in favour of employers. I believe that it is rather the opposite, that what it does is to rebalance the bargaining power between employers and workers. In that agreement we commit ourselves to establishing a road map, a timetable different from that set by the People's Party Government in the public deficit, in the fulfilment of the public deficit commitments set with Brussels. The approach that the agreement makes is precisely to meet around 1% of the public deficit of our public administrations in 2019 and, consequently, to revise the deadlines for the fulfilment of those objectives, which would imply that in 2017 we would be in 3% of the public deficit and, consequently, outside the Brussels corrective arm, which I believe would be good news for all Spanish and Spanish. In addition, we are doing something else that seems very important to me to underline and that is that we are all committed to two things: one, that we are not going to cut social spending further in our country - on the contrary, what we are going to do is to rebuild social spending - and, secondly, to implement a tax reform that has as its main objective and main commitment two things: first, not to touch the tax on labour in the income tax of natural persons - that is, taxation on labour is not going to be touched -; secondly, to fight tax fraud and, above all, to fight big tax fraud by creating a unit against that great tax fraud within the Tax Agency, and of course we are going to study the possibility of creating that tax on great fortunes that other European countries have. Ladies and gentlemen, budgetary stability, meeting the deficit targets, negotiating with Brussels to make those deficit targets more in line with the political, economic and social realities of our country and cross-cutting agreements. Mr Rivera said it before and I would like to join him. I think it is very important that all the political forces present here make cross-cutting agreements that have to do with, for example, the educational pact. Mr Rivera has previously made explicit mention of this educational pact. I would like to incorporate into that appreciation that Mr Rivera has made that we are going to recognize as a right the scholarships in that educational pact and that we are going to take a period of six months so that among all those who are here and those who are outside - the educational community - we can forge that pact for the education that our country needs. There has been little talk, but I would like to underline it in the wake of the deficit - this is something I know that Mr Rivera is very concerned about, and so is we - about the social security deficit situation, that is, the public pension system. The approach we take in this agreement, not only for today's retirees but also for tomorrow's pensioners, is that we are going to rebuild the Toledo Pact that Mr Rajoy and his absolute majority during the past parliamentary term fulminated. We are also going to do something very important, something that, in addition to some of your Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in the last parliamentary term, as the Secretary of State for Social Security in office, has just outlined, and it is the need to finance the public pension system in our country as is done in other parts of Europe, that is, not only with social security contributions but also with taxes. We leave the door open so that we can finance Social Security to maintain its public character, to maintain the distribution system, to keep pensions worthy of our pensioners today and of tomorrow's pensioners - many of them are present here -, pensions worthy and guaranteed with public funding not only through social security contributions but also through taxes. I would also like to underline something important, and it is the reform of the Constitution. We are making an ambitious constitutional reform approach in this agreement, which has cross-cutting elements that I believe most Members here can share. We are talking about five things that I believe many of you will agree with because they have reflected this in your electoral programmes. Firstly, to put an end to the outbursts of Members, Members of Parliament, Senators and Senators, and also Members and Members of Parliament in the autonomous parliaments. Secondly, the limitation of the term of office to eight years for the Presidency of the Government. Thirdly, 250,000 signatures are required for the popular legislative initiative. Fourthly, to reduce the General Council of the Judiciary to 10 members. And fifthly, abolish the deputies and create the council of mayors. This comes from something I said earlier in my speech as well as Mr Rivera in his, and it is the rationalization of public spending in our country. And in order to rationalize public spending in our country, we need not only to make a thorough examination of that public spending, where efficiency is, where the fairness of many of those public policies is, but also what we need to tell the Spaniards is that politicians and politicians are willing to risk, to be brave, to take a step forward, to rationalize the administrative structures of the country so that no further cuts in social spending, which there has been enough over the past four years. That is urgent reform. I have heard Mr Rajoy say that he does not agree with that reform, that he needs more seats and also announces and threatens that in the Senate he can block any kind of constitutional reform. No wonder it comes from Mr Rajoy because it always implements all institutions for party benefit. He did so with the Presidency of the Government by renouncing his candidacy for the investiture and again by threatening to use the Senate for partisan benefit and not for the benefit of the citizenry. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, where is the problem of ending the outbursts, where is the problem of limiting the mandate of the Presidency of the Government to eight years. But if Mr. Aznar said so when he was president of the government! Not to include it in the Constitution, but to apply it as a first person. Why can't we include it in the Constitution? Where is the problem of reducing the signatures of the popular legislative initiative to 250,000? Where is the problem of abolishing provincial parliaments and creating provincial councils of mayors? Where is the problem of reducing the General Council of the Judiciary to ten in its governing body? [[Applauds]] These are issues that you can perfectly endorse. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that if you explained these measures to your electorate, by a large majority you would vote yes. By the way, Mr. Iglesias, the same would happen to Podemos' voters. You, in your programme, propose to abolish the parliaments, to eliminate the outbursts, I understand that you will agree with the limitation of mandates and I also understand that you will agree with the reduction to 250,000 signatures of the popular legislative initiative. Therefore, where is the problem for us to get it started, Mr. Churches, from next week? [[The Lord]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important because on some occasions I have heard some elements of criticism from some parliamentary groups saying that this proposal for agreement, this government proposal does not contain any substantive elements that resolve the crisis of coexistence in Catalonia. I disagree in substance because when we are talking, for example, about recovering the Unit Law, when we are talking about universalizing public health, when we are talking about recovering, for example, lost labour rights - labour reform approved, by the right, the Spanish and also the Catalan right - when we are talking about recovering social security from the non-professional caregivers of many of those dependents, we are also talking about many Catalans who have suffered in the first person those cuts and those policies. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this constitutional reform we have put forward a number of elements which I believe are shared by the majority of Members in this House. Firstly, I believe that the majority of Members share the view that we need to open a period of reflection on constitutional reform in our country. That is why our commitment - it is set out in the agreement - is to launch within one month, counting from today on a subcommission in the Constitutional Commission to start talking about the perimeter of constitutional reform. We are also talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the launch of the constitutional reform conference within six months. And there the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Citizens have agreed on a certain perimeter, an outline of that constitutional reform that does things that can be shared by the vast majority of voters, both to the left and to the right. It is, for example, to shield social rights. It is, for example, to recognize public health as fundamental rights. It is, for example, to recognize new rights and freedoms in the Constitution. It is, for example, ladies and gentlemen, to give way to the territorial crisis that is being experienced in Catalonia with a reform of Title VIII of the Constitution and with the adoption of a reform that makes the Senate a real territorial chamber. And why not, Mr Domènech - I have already heard you criticise him - take that Senate, which is a territorial chamber, to Catalonia, to Barcelona, as Pascual Maragall proposed. Why not? [[Rumors]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by publicly thanking Mr Rivera and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group again... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u57	Wait a minute, Mr. Sanchez. I beg your silence, please. I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u58	There are Members and Members who are more likely to face confrontation than the agreement, but these are the times we live in, Mr Rivera. In any case, thank you very much for your courage. [[Several Members: Oh!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u59	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Rivera, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u60	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you also to the Socialist Party for trying to agree on what unites us and not what separates us. I think it's an effort we've all made. I wanted to use this shift to make one thing clear at institutional level that I think is fundamental. Mr. Rajoy is not here, but surely he hears us from somewhere in this world. [[Laughter]] Then he'll say he wants a round for allusions but he's not here. [[Applauds]] In any case, even if Mr Rajoy is not here, I will talk about it, and I am referring to the Head of State. Here the head of State has a constitutional function, in fact it is the only function with a certain discretion that the head of State has, which is to make a round of contacts with the different political parties to try to form government. Mr Rajoy said no to the head of state and that is what has made Mr Rajoy unable to stand here today defending his alleged candidacy. Why did Mr. Rajoy do it? Well, I don't know, but of course, why do I have to think that the lazy one trying to form government is going to be brave to reform Spain from the top down? Why? [[Applauds]] Because, of course, when there is no absolute majority there is something as dramatic as dialogue, something as difficult in politics as talking and understanding. If Mr Rajoy's attitude with the king of Spain had been in his day by Mr Suárez or those parents of our Constitution, we would certainly not have the democracy we have today. We must live up to the circumstances, because it is not only worth having legitimacy in this case, but we must also have authorities, respect for the citizens. I am convinced that the PP's 7 million voters have not understood why Mr Rajoy spoke to the Head of State. [[Mrs. Martínez Saiz: Yes, yes, yes!-Rumors]] And I am convinced that they have also not understood why they prefer the Socialist Party to deal with Podemos and the independenceists than a constitutionalist agreement with Citizens. I don't understand, I can't understand. [[Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández: You betray your voters]] And I am convinced that many voters of the People's Party... They say things around here while we talk and people don't listen to it, but I do. They're talking about betrayals. Betrayal is what you did to Mr Pujol, you betrayed many Catalans. That's what they did. [[Applauds]] When you are interested in the pacts with the nationalists you are of state and when you are not the devil. Look, it's more the second than the first, but of course they're not state. They are not state with which they want to break the state, basically. So do you think that an agreement between a Social Democratic Party and a Liberal Democratic Party is a threat to coexistence, to the economy? It's not credible, no one believes it. Why? Because what we defend surely many Spaniards share. I am sure that not to raise the taxes of the IRPF and VAT, which is what you did, is what many voters of the People's Party want. They want Mr. Montoro and Mr. Rajoy not to say one thing and at fifteen days they get the IRPF, because still many Spaniards are waiting for them to apologize for that deception they made in 2011. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, sorry; a word that is not used in politics. [[Applauds]] Therefore, let us think that in Spain there are things that have been done well but let us dream of changing the things that have been done wrong. Because here it seems you have to choose between the bad and the least bad. No, we have to choose between what we have - that there are things that have been done right and other wrong - and between being more inconsistent. How can we settle for the unemployment data we have? Really, when I see the bells ringing at the flight and the euphoria that we have... Wait for the next week, wait for the European Union to tell us that we have failed to meet the budget deficit, wait for them to tell us that the electoral budgets - which we have warned some of them - have a hole of EUR 10 billion. You know what that means? More reforms, more adjustments. And you know who has to do it? Surely those who do not want to form a government do not have to do so. They will have to be done by those who do want to form a government, we will have to assume in the first person those who do accept the order, one, of the king and, another, of the citizens to agree. Therefore, things in Spain can go well and can go even better. We do not settle for the unemployment we have or for the precariousness. We cannot settle for being the OECD's 28th school failure country. Why do we have to have one of the worst results in public and concerted education in Europe? Why? Because no one wants to make a national pact for education? For it is going to be done and this government is going to push it and it is going to push it by the parliamentary majority, if any, to move forward. Why do we have to think that judges have to remain directly stationed from the headquarters of political parties? Why can't we set up a system to make appointments between experts and break the tentacles with political parties? What is it that bothers you? That they can't place their own? That they can't call the D.A. and tell him to do something or the opposite with Rita Barbera? Is that what worries you? [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy used to refer to how good Spain is going. In Spain you sure have done things right - I said it before - but we can improve a lot, we have a lot of room. I'm going to give you a piece of information. The Council of Europe, which ensures fundamental freedoms and rights in the Member States, had to draw our attention to the politicization of the Office of the Prosecutor and the Spanish courts. You, who said you were going to depoliticize justice - that's what the People's Party election program said in 2011 - have done the opposite, you have turned justice into a window of the Ministry of Justice instead of a state power. Therefore, we are going to depoliticize justice, as you said in your programme and did not do with an absolute majority. In short, what is happening is that many voters who trusted you thinking that you were going to change many things with an absolute majority gave you a mandate to change and you didn't change anything. Moreover, they politicized justice, education has not improved, there is more precariousness and there is more corruption. I haven't talked much about corruption because it's already in the air, you know. We have a difficult economic situation and the second problem in Spain, ahead of the economy, is corruption. You in the face of corruption say you're rotten apples. No, rotten apples not, whole baskets of rotten apples; an entire institutionalized system, with gold bars in some seats of some parties. But what is this? But where are we? Is this an advanced democracy in Europe? What are they playing games with gold ingots? What do dozens of MPs do collaborating to launder money from public bites, as is being investigated in Valencia? What do we do? [[Rumors]] [[Rumors.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: What do you say!]] Yes, yes, Mr. Hernando, you know what I'm talking about, I'm afraid you know what I'm talking about. [[Protests]] It's all right, calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u61	Quiet, please. I ask you to remain silent and not to engage in discussions with the speaker on the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u62	Even if it takes them a long time, I have the same time as Mr. Rajoy. I'm telling you that corruption is not a minor issue. And I say, if Spain has to push a pact against corruption and for transparency, will Mr Rajoy push it? Is anyone going to believe that? Does anyone in Spain believe that Mr. Rajoy is going to be the scourge against corruption in Spain? You can't do that because you haven't cleaned your house, how will you clean Spain from corruption? [[Applauds]] So when Mr Rajoy returns to the House - which will then ask for the floor for allusions, although he has not been - tell him on my part that we do not believe that he is going to clean Spain from corruption. [[Mr. President of the Government in office, Rajoy Brey, joins his seat.-Laughter and applause]] Man! I was telling you, Mr Rajoy, that if you don't clean up your house of corruption, it's very difficult for the Spaniards to believe you're going to clean up corruption in all of Spain. It's very complicated. I'm not saying it's easy because I understand that you're going to have trouble there and, as the Civil Guard says, organized gangs, but... [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah, in his papers, he talks about organized gangs. You have said what citizens' voters think, therefore, let me do the same thing you have done with my voters. You say you don't know if citizens' voters agree to a constitutionalist and reformist agreement, and I ask you: do PP voters agree with corruption that corrodes your party? Do you agree? Do the voters of the People's Party agree that everything remains the same when you have decent, decent and competent people? Because they have it, they have it here, and they've had it in many governments. You have been a fundamental party, as Mr Sánchez recalled, for the governability of Spain, for the reforms of this country, in the Counter-Terrorism Pact, so I ask you to reflect, I ask you to clean up, I ask you to regenerate, I ask you to allow an important conservative party for Spanish democracy like yours, a center party like Citizens and a left party like the PSOE to lay the foundations for major state agreements. But I also ask you, please, to be brave, to be brave to clean, to be brave to cut for the healthy. If not, unfortunately, the voters of the People's Party will think that they are voting for a party that is not able to lead the fight against corruption, which is the second problem for the Spanish. In conclusion, I would like to thank the negotiators for this agreement. Some of you were referring to some of my colleagues. Yes, I am proud to have experts and professionals like the ones we have had in those negotiating groups. I would also like to thank all my colleagues and the 3.5 million voters who allow me to be in this rostrum and who for the first time have trusted in a new party, in a center party. I would also like to thank the negotiators because without many press conferences, without demanding ministries or state secretariats, without so much noise, they have been able to reach an agreement with a party other than the one that unites us with the Constitution, the welfare society, the market economy, Europe and the union of all Spaniards. I want to show my gratitude to the people who have negotiated on behalf of Citizens and on behalf of the Socialist Party the courage, the courage, the difficulties - which have been and you know it - but also the ones who present solutions to Spanish society today. Today the Spaniards are leaving this debate knowing that there are at least two groups in the House, two groups, who want to separate what separates them and want to pool what unites them. Now there is only one need for some of you to join, whether Podemos or the People's Party, or at least - as some people are lazy about the investiture and others only care about the assault on power - to allow some of us to start a new political stage, because if that is so, we will also count on you. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to which Mr Hernando Fraile calls for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u63	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. Yes, Mr. Hernando?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u64	Mr. Rivera has made allusions to my person saying... [[Protests]] Wait, wait, listen, please, it wouldn't hurt to listen. He made allusions in the sense that I know a thing about gold bars in I don't know where... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u65	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u66	Yeah, yeah. He said, "Mr. Hernando knows what I'm talking about. [[Rumors]] Yes, sir. Mr. Lopez, you may not have been able to hear it because you were in other things.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u67	No, I was here.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u68	Well, I've heard it perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u69	No, no, I was here.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u70	Well, then go over the 'Diary of Sessions' and see how you've made those allusions, direct allusions. I have to tell Mr. Rivera I don't know anything about what he's telling me. I do not know if you speak because you do know about this matter, but let me tell you one thing: as far as the fight against corruption is concerned, it is this government that has done seventy anti-corruption measures... [[Protests.-Several Members: That is no allusion!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u71	Now, Mr. Hernando, you don't have the floor for this. [[Mr Domènech Sampere asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Domènech?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u72	I wanted to refer to Mr. Sanchez's reference to...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u73	No, no. We've come this far with allusions. Let's see, Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure is meridianly clear. It is only considered allusion, and therefore allows only one turn to be opened by allusion, when there has been judgment of value or falsehood. Therefore, there is no room to pervert what the investiture debate is by playing cross-discussions between different spokesmen or political groups. No, you don't have the floor. We continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u74	That Mr Sánchez has indicated that I did not take into account the tradition of socialism is not a judgment of value?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u75	No, no, please! It's neither value judgment nor falsehood. It is a political assessment and we should not be mistaken in the terms in which this debate is being conducted. No, you don't have the floor. Let's keep going. Mr. Candidate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u76	Mr. President, thank you. I will speak from the seat to do the same as Mr Rivera has done, which is to thank the negotiators, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for this long month of many hours, of many resignations not only in the hours of sleep, but also in the hours of family and conciliation, their willingness to agree and find solutions; solutions, indeed, from two parties, ladies and gentlemen, which come from very different ideologies, but we have put the general interests before the interests of each of the parties. That is the new policy, ladies and gentlemen, the policy that the Spanish ask of their representatives in this House. The old policy is the use of fallacies ad hominem. [[Rumors]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is the agreements, not who negotiates those agreements. And the agreements and contents of these policies are progressive and reformist solutions for the Spanish as a whole. So, Mr. Rivera, thank you for being part of the solution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. We continue with the intervention shifts and it is the time of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. Mr Tardà has the floor. [[Rumors]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that I am going to address the candidate, first of all, so that no one can be deceived, I will address all of you to tell you that, following the mandate of 27 September, in Catalonia we are already on the stage of disconnection, that we will soon start the constituent process and, if it is the will of the citizen, we will soon also proclaim the Republic of Catalonia. [[A Member of Parliament: No!]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Candidate, you live installed in a great contradiction. On the one hand, he talks about progress and justice, but on the other hand you call the democratic and majority will of the people of Catalonia to challenge the construction of a republic, which is the way we Republican Catalans use to call independence; a republic to make possible a society that is more socially equal and a democracy of excellence. You are aware, Mr. candidate, that this is not a territorial problem or a problem of competence or privilege. This is about freedom, my country's independence. And you tell us about the challenge. That is, it continues with the policy based on the criminalization of electoral results treating the 2 million Catalans who voted independence on 27 September as if they were subject to a seditious riot. How can you present yourself as progressive and at the same time regenerative if you follow the wake of a party that was founded by a Franco minister and another party that was born with only one goal, dynamite the great unwritten pact of the Catalan popular classes, which is nothing other than the system of linguistic immersion in the school system after decades - decades!, you don't even know what I'm talking about - linguistic genocide? [[A lady MP: Hala!]] Moreover, you ignore the results of 27 September, when the democratic mandate to build independence was born. Notice, with a participation of 77 % - very high -, 48 % of the votes allowed to enjoy an absolute independence majority - 72 deputies - while the Socialist Party, the People's Party and Citizens reached 39 %. The rest, 12%, are Catalan citizens who, even if they are not independentists, do advocate and are committed to the right to decide and to hold a referendum. If you want, we can compare these results with those obtained on December 20. The People's Party has reached 28%, and you intend to be, with a pair, President of the Government of Spain with 22%. Consequently, the Parliament of Catalonia is legitimized to initiate the constituent process towards the republic, but the Socialist Party, the People's Party and Citizens claim that they will not negotiate. This is, in our view, a conservative, retrograde and even stupid attitude because, according to the universal democratic principles, Spain cannot retain Catalonia without the consent of Catalan citizens, because an imposed unity amounts to an abuse, amounts to a violation of rights, and the consent of the governed - I hope you can never deny this - is what differentiates a government or a democratic regime from another despot. That is why Spanish Democrats should be the first to demand a referendum on Scotland to know whether or not Catalans want to belong to the Spanish state. And the Spanish Democrats should also be the first to wonder why we have come to this stage. If they do so without prejudice and we - fraternally - ask them, they will understand why today we Republicans are going to vote against their investiture, as we will vote against Mr Rajoy's investiture, if in a few weeks' time I wanted to. You have told us today about progress, and I tell you that few lessons of progress can give us Catalans. Know that historically - historically - whenever a Spanish political representative has addressed the Catalans and asked them for collaboration and complicity in the name of progress, we Catalans have always felt concerned and questioned. Remember 14 April 1931: we proclaimed the Catalan republic and after seventy-two hours we renounced it in order and effect to consolidate the Spanish republic which, by the way, was integral and not federal. And we demonstrated it also in 1977, with the return of Josep Tarradellas, leader of the Republican Left of Catalonia and the restoration of the Republican Generalitat, without which the Catalans would not have voted affirmatively on the Spanish Constitution in 1978 and the Transition possibly would have been wrecked. And we demonstrated this in 1978 and 1981, when the concept of nationality was adopted - by some Catalan copyright: Pi i Margall - and a statute that required a referendum for its approval and modification was adopted. At that time Catalonia was convinced that the Spanish State would evolve as Belgium, which in 1960 was a unitary and monolingual State, and today Belgium is a federal and multilingual State. See if it is multilingual that even in the Councils of Ministers simultaneous translation is used. In 1981 came the door of the hand of Generals Armada and Milans del Bosch, door to a true reconciliation between Catalonia and Spain, three hundred years after having applied the decree of New Plant by which Catalonia was annexed to the Kingdom of Castile invoking the right of conquest. That said: in 1981, portazo, Loapa and coffee for everyone. And we tried again in 2004, you know how? When we make the call from your secretary general, do you remember: Will I support the Statute that approves the Parliament of Catalonia? Do you remember? It was, of course, a question of creating a new second-generation statute that would allow us to regain the lost rank as a result of the coup d'état of the Tricorns. We trust the word of Zapatero, we strictly comply with all the law and you deceived President Maragall, deceived the Republicans and deceived a good part of Catalan society. It all turned out to be a deception, which is why we are here today vaccinated, Mr Sánchez; we are vaccinated against your minimally federalizing proposals and when we witness a new version of the 23-F anti-autonomic pact following your agreement with Citizens. And the reality is very different, the reality is that the Catalans suffer an aberrant fiscal expoliation, from 13,000 to 16 billion each year, that we pay and that they do not come back. By the way, the same fiscal expoliation that suffers in the Valencia Country and in Illes Balears. [[Applauds]] And the public investment of the state only reaches 12% of the gross domestic product, when Catalonia accounts for 21% of GDP and 16% of the population, or we are victims of the unsustainable AVE radial system that has marginalized the Mediterranean corridor, fundamental to the economy of the Valencia Country and the principality of Catalonia. And, in parallel - and most worrying -, in parallel, hatred, hatred!, hatred and Catalanophobia; Catalanophobia that reached its paroxysm during the statutory process deployed by the oligarchy and political parties, the same political parties and the same oligarchy that today defend the unity of Spain. The BBC would never have treated the Scots of Nazis, of the mentally ill, of the people, of the corrupt, as did the Spanish televisions, public and private, leaders of their political party - Mr Leguina, Mr Guerra -, the Episcopal Conference, the CEOE and even military commanders. Still, there was still hope in Catalan society at the time. See if there was still hope that the Republicans, in the referendum of the Statue, asked for the no and came out the yes. Do you know why we lost the Republicans? Because then there was still a majority of Catalans and Catalans who trusted in an agreement with Spain. But you have returned to the burden: remedies of unconstitutionality presented by members of your party - Mr Múgica Herzog - by the PP, of course and by various autonomous governments, and all this in a context of a corrupt Constitutional Court in its functions, sold - I say sold - to the major political parties and which gave rise to a coup d'état judgement against the Statue; by the way, coup d'état judgment which was thus qualified by Professor Javier Pérez Royo. This is why Catalonia today is governed by a Statute that is not the one that voted for citizenship, which was imposed by a Constitutional Court violating its beloved Constitution, violating article 152.2. Because if the Constitutional Court considered certain articles unconstitutional, it would have had to order the repetition of the entire procedure and referendum. In other words, this Constitutional Court charged itself with the basic democratic principle that the law emanates from the people. In conclusion, in a democracy that had completely and radically broken with Francoism, never, ever, ever had judges dared to modify a statute that had previously been endorsed by the people. If you were pursuing the chemical castration of Catalonia and thought you were getting it, it's that you don't know us, it's that you don't know us. We do know you, because we proudly speak Catalan and Spanish, and we know our history and yours, you do not. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] That's why you claim unfortunate things like there's a fracture in Catalonia. You have no idea! You have no idea. [[Applauds]] Did you believe that a people that has been able to organize the most extraordinary demonstrations in Europe since the end of World War II was going to stand idly by? Nonsense! What did you think, that we'd keep our arms crossed? [[Laughter and applause]] [[Applauds]] That is why in 2014 here came a petition endorsed by the Parliament of Catalonia, by the two thirds, including the Socialist Party of Catalonia, who has seen it and who sees it! And what did you say? You said no, you and you, and fifteen times more than we intended, rejected it. [[Noting the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] By the way, let's not ask anymore! [[Applauds]] I do not deny that I would be very surprised if you would offer a referendum to be held within a year, but I think you should be born again. It's not gonna happen. But let it be known that this has a price, this has the price that they are increasingly moving away, for example, from the United Kingdom, which has shown how a state resolves a national conflict. Look, Mr Sánchez, when the Catalan Independenceists reached 48% on 27 September, we left behind 44% that the Independenceists reached in Scotland; they did 44, we did 48. What did London do? Negotiation. There were no disqualifications, no insults, no suspensions or appeals to the courts, and, of course, no appeal was made to the sacred unity of Britain. Despite being young, you, Mr. Sánchez, are very, very old. Old, old, because he has a uninational vision. In fact, what are you doing with this position? You have ratified in the same way as so many other politicians who have preceded you, who have denied, for example, the Valencia Country, the Islands, the Principality of Catalonia and the other nations of the current Spanish State the treatment of equality; equality between peoples, equality and recognition among nations, rejecting a multicultural understanding. It was funny the other day when you introduced the draft of a language law. Here, this honourable Member humbly defended you eight or nine years ago and you are still laughing, and we still have difficulty speaking our language in this Parliament. So pluricultural vision, plurilingual vision, plurinational vision does not exist or will unfortunately exist. In addition you sell us the bike, you intend to sell us the bike, telling us hypocritically that the solution is in the reform of the Constitution. You know that this is not possible because the Spanish constitutional text, and this you hide, is one of the most blocked constitutional texts precisely to prevent your reform. In short, it is a bunker - a bunker in the hands of you, of Citizens and of the People's Group - and always both Catalans, as well as Galicians and Basques, always, we will always be a demographic minority in the hands of you, who do not recognize Catalonia as a nation and who also say they will never do so. Mr. Sanchez, that's enough reductionism. Of course Catalonia is not a colony, of course it is not, which is why we have never intended to accept the procedure established by the United Nations in the Committee on Decolonization, but we are an annexed country - that is why I told you earlier about the New Plant Decree - and the passage of the centuries - you should know this - has not made Catalonia's rights to its sovereignty prescribed. Remember that the right of self-determination was born in the case of Ireland's annexation and that is why President Wilson incorporated it into his statement. The Spanish courts have no right to be constituted either as a judge or in part. In any case - and attention - only an international court can be an impartial judge and I ask you: Is the Spanish State, if you ever ruled, prepared to raise the dispute in Catalonia before the International Court of The Hague? What a dynamite! Let the International Tribunal of The Hague decide whether or not Catalans have the right to exercise the right to decide! In short, I tell you the following. At this crossroads, at the crossroads in which all of you find yourselves, except those who bet on the right to decide, you have to choose two paths: either through democratic means or through the States of authoritarian tradition, and in order not to offend anyone I silence them. [[Laughter]] Mr. Candidate, we aspire to proclaim the republic promptly. You know why? Because we want to be like the states of northern Europe, which are at the top of the world's record of transparency and honesty in public institutions. We are tired of suffering corruption here and in Catalonia, cancer of democracy that splashes at political parties that have exercised power, that splashes at public administrations and part of the business world. As millions of people lost their jobs and families sank into misery, while evictions multiplied exponentially, even the Royal House, even the Royal House, showed their putrefaction. [[Several Members: Very well!]] Do you know what the reason is? Do you know why you too are responsible for all this? Because the extent of corruption and the lack of ethical norms of the political class and part of the business class is an intrinsic part of the constitutional system of 1978, which leads me to one of the foundations of the current monarchic regime, that is, impunity for crimes against humanity committed by the Franco military regime; I repeat, impunity for crimes against humanity committed by the Franco military regime, which you also shielded from the 2007 Memory Act. Fabiola Letelier, sister of the Chilean Minister of Defense killed on the charge of the criminal Pinochet, wrote: Impunity socializes the perverse idea that everything is allowed and the most serious crimes do not deserve punishment, thus promoting widespread ananomy and corruption in the most varied areas of life. I said, free bar. If the head of State, the former, did not have the obligation to ask for forgiveness for having sworn the Fundamental Principles of the Movement, did not have the obligation to ask for forgiveness for his complicity with so many assassinations of the dictatorship, why did he have to be transparent in his business or finances? Why? We urgently need independence, Mr. candidate, the republic, because we do not want to sacrifice two or three generations of Catalans. The facts show that there is no economic future without independence and his speech reaffirms us in this because his program does not alter or correct the parameters and structure of the oligarchy that has led the Spanish economy to the desolation that affects millions of citizens. You do not respond to why the Spanish crisis is more serious than in the rest of the European Union, except in Greece; you do not respond to why the figure of 4.5 million unemployed is presented by the representatives of the oligarchy as a success of economic recovery; you do not respond to why more than 150,000 people have been evicted while the banks are accepted not to return 37 billion - ours - of the more than 61 billion that we have injected them, and you do not respond to why we can ignore the frustration of hundreds of thousands of young people who suffer 50% of unemployment while measures are presented to please the Alierta de Telefónica, the Fainé de la Caixa, the González of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, the Entrecanales de Acciona and a long list that could even end with Don Florentino Pérez, of ACS, to whom you gave money to rescue motorways and then stuck the ball of El Castor. Conversely, you maintain a reverential attitude toward them, but taking advantage of the revolving doors and if you do not ask Minister Salgado or Trinidad Jiménez. [[Applauds]] In short, subjection to the financial powers and I will give you two examples that should embarrass you, especially today because yesterday you did not have the honesty to apologize or to be self-critical. One, the express amendment of article 135 of the Constitution to make the payment of debt on social expenditure a priority and two, to make possible internal devaluation by means of labour reforms or by dynamizing part of the welfare state, because it must be recognized that some of the measures initiated by you, that is, you focused the ball so that the People's Party could end and win the party in favor of neoliberalism. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, with his constant rejections of the Catalans, of the desire for freedom of many Catalans, wanted to send us to Dante's hell, that hell that is presided over by the emblem: Abandon all hope. They refused to persuade the Catalans through a referendum and did not intend to accept the mediation of an international tribunal. Well, we are going to build independence from the democratic mandate of 27 September, born in the polls. And how did you react? They could have reacted by simply voting not for the investiture - legitimately, of course - of the Puigdemont government, but they have not complied with it. They have judicialized the results and even tried to prevent the debate on the 9 November resolution. In short, the most perverse thing is that you intend to treat the actions of Parliament and the Government as a criminal offence. Have you wondered, Mr. Sánchez, where this road leads you? With the last reform of the Constitutional Court, this criminalizes the Speaker of the Parliament, the Bureau and other positions elected by the citizen when she accepts the request of the state's lawyer to be notified of the crime of disobedience if they comply - attention - with the democratic mandate of the ballot box. This spiral, Mr Sánchez, which has begun the Spanish State will possibly lead to the existence of political prisoners again and, of course - I do not doubt it - will lead to the birth of a movement of civil disobedience from the institutions. They will suspend, disable, and in the end what? Will they imprison us? In the end, what, they're gonna put us in jail? Will they imprison the democratic representatives of the people of Catalonia? Will they imprison the mayors and councillors who will sympathize and join in the peaceful impeachment? [[Laughter]] You've already begun to repress us. Artur Mas, former president of my country, the Consellers Rigau and Ortega and even the deputy Homs will be tried. You know why? To help make possible a popular, civic and peaceful mobilization. Look at this madness! The same judge who imprisoned two puppeteers has ordered the investigation of the Catalan National Assembly by sedition. How modern they are! [[Applauds]] Everyone to jail, as Berlanga said. [[Laughter]] Mr Sánchez, our aim is no longer to reform Spain. We've tried and surrendered. [[Laughter]] If others want to take over, cheer up. [[Laughter]] But as there is an independent majority, as there is a government obliged - and I say obliged - to carry out the road map given to the world by the resolution of 9 November and as there is a clear will of the citizen - because our process was born in the ballot box and will culminate in the ballot box - I will tell you what we will do in the coming months. Honesty forces us to be clear with you. We will pass the laws of disconnection, basically the law of the tax agency, the law of Catalan social security and the law of legal transitionality. Then we will call for new elections of a constituent nature. The new Parliament of Catalonia will debate and approve or not the constitution of the republic and, finally, we will convene a referendum, condition sine qua non - in case Catalan citizens say yes - to proclaim the republic. Certainly the same resolution of 9 November mandated us all to negotiate, and I remind you that at the last plenary session held in this House during the last Republican Left legislature of Catalonia already brought to the fore and to debate an initiative for us all to discuss the need to recognize the democratic mandate of 27 September and to begin the process of negotiating separation. They said no, of course. You know - and I finish - that we are going to assume the responsibilities arising from democracy and the commitment made to the citizens with all its consequences. I repeat solemnly: with all its consequences. For you it is very easy to deny the right to self-determination if that denial is accepted with resignation, but it will not be so. When this denial forces them to prosecute and disable, the situation will change radically. You will not be able to act - neither you nor you - against a democratic and defenceless people. Do you think the international concert of democracies will allow us to use legal violence against us? What's more, do you think Spanish citizenship is going to allow it? Do you honestly believe that Spanish citizenship will allow it? We will address Spanish citizens as well as all citizens of the different nations of the current Spanish state and ask them: will you consent to us being repressed on your behalf? Spanish society will respond and we are convinced that it will respond as a mature democracy because democracy is unbeatable. We will follow the Catalan process, peacefully, civically, because we feel inherited from many generations who never gave up; generations who fought even in very difficult, anti-fascist stages; citizens who safeguarded our language, citizens who never gave up. That is why today we are one of the few non-state nations in Europe that have every chance of achieving victory, because we want a more just society. We do not aspire to proclaim the republic to change the flag, but to build a society that is more socially egalitarian, and because we owe it to our children. Remember, there's no fracture. I ended up saying something you can believe or not, but I think it's extrapolable to hundreds of thousands of Catalan citizens. I love Catalonia very much, just as Mr Girauta loves it; I am very independentist, more than he does, but I love my family more, and in it there are independenceists and people who are not. [[Laughter]] Here lies the maturity of the Catalan people. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u79	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. I give the floor to the candidate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u80	Mr. Tardà, thank you for your words. You are an expert Member, experienced in this House and, if I may, I only make a recommendation to you, and it is that you do not banalize with the terms genocide or coup d'état twisting its meaning, because in the end you would lose the true value that many people who have suffered genocide and coup d'état, Mr Tardà, have for me. It is true that I become very difficult your approach, because you do not want to stretch any bridge, you do not want to dialogue, you do not want to reform, you do not want to renew, you want to break, yes, break; you want to break. The political formation you represent wants to fracture Catalonia, wants to fracture Spain and wants to place Catalonia outside Spain and the European Union. I will give you bad news, Mr Tardà, because you referred to 27 September, but it is that on 27 September, which was raised as a plebiscite by you and by Democracy and Llibertat, you lost it, did not win independence. [[Applauds]] So, if after listening to you I have to draw some conclusions, do you know what it is, Mr. Tardà? That also in Catalonia there is a need for policy and policy change. Yes, it's necessary. I do not abandon any hope, Mr Tardà, I do not abandon the hope that the Catalans and the Spanish as a whole can build a common project, we can renew the constitutional pact. It is true that you distrust that constitutional reform we are proposing, but as you said before that we had to choose between two paths, I tell you that the Socialist Party and the majority of Members who are here, regardless of the ideology we have, Mr Tardà, have always chosen the path of democracy. Do you know what democracy is in the first place, Mr Tardà? Respect the law, enforce the law and, from within the law, be able to reform it; that is what we are proposing. Mr Tardà, we have always criticized Mr Rajoy and the People's Parliamentary Group for making deaf ears to the crisis of coexistence and the internal fracture that was being experienced in Catalonia. We have always held hands, Mr Tardà, we have always had bridges with those who think differently, and we have always thought and never lost hope that we could reach a new agreement. We are so democrats, Mr Tardà, that we want the Catalans to vote twice, to vote with the Spanish as a whole on a constitutional reform and to vote on a new Statute for Catalonia. You refer to the United Kingdom and its referendum. I would also say that the Scottish presidents and politicians would not have called an illegal referendum like the one you are proposing. Moreover, Mr. Tardà, if you lose that hypothetical referendum again, would you return, as the Scottish independenceists are doing, to call that referendum at the age of five? Yes or no, Mr. Tardà? Because the Spanish Constitution is quite clear. The Spanish Constitution does not recognize the rupture of national sovereignty, the Spanish Constitution recognizes that it can be reformed by the mechanisms established within the Constitution to illuminate a new agreement, which is precisely what we have been demanding for more than three years now. Mr Tardà, I share with you and also with many Catalans that there have been attempts over the past four years and, in addition, re-centralizing policies in many areas that for territories like Catalan are a real provocation because, in fact, you have a vocation of greater self-government to other territories. That is why, Mr Tardà, what we are doing is recognizing that we have to do that constitutional reform to also recognize that those territories that have a greater vocation of self-government can have it. In the meantime, we can do many things, Mr Tardá, to which you referred in your speech. We can, for example, modify and replace the current labour reform with another new Workers' Statute that recognizes lost labour rights. We can paralyze the Lomce. We can also set in motion investments to boost the Mediterranean corridor, as is reflected in the proposal for an agreement that we have made some other political formations. We can also repeal the Larsal, which I know you are against. We can also reform the autonomous financing system. In short, we can, as the agreement that we have signed both political formations shows, set in motion, within a month, a subcommission for the constitutional reform of our country, if the legislature is to be launched. Mr Tardà, I will be very brief but very explicit. We do not abandon the hope that Catalonia will continue in Spain with another framework of relations that recognizes its uniqueness, that recognizes its identity, that also recognizes its vocation of self-government, but always sharing the same project, which is the project of Spain. Mr. Tardà, I tell you with all humility. You make the agreement very difficult, you make it very difficult, with the intervention you have made and the tone you have put in your words, that we can understand, but I think that the majority of Catalans and Catalans, even those who voted on 27 September for independence formations - I am referring to Junts pel Yes, to the coalition between you and Democracy i Llibertat - I am convinced that many of them are hoping for a new agreement for Catalonia to continue in Spain, so that there will not be that triple fracture that we are denouncing the Socialists, which is, first of all, a fracture between Catalans; secondly, a fracture between Catalans and the Spanish as a whole and, thirdly, a fracture between Catalonia and the European Union as a whole. I hope, Mr Tardà, that you will react, that you will reflect and that you will not abandon the hope of being able to understand us again. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u81	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Tardà, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u82	Mr. President, with your permission. Mr. Sanchez, there are two things I'm worried about. One, its insistence on saying and talking repeatedly - this is already possibly part of a propagandistic design - of the fracture in Catalonia, the social fracture, the civil fracture, etc. This was not a language of the Socialist Party, it was not a language of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, it was never a language of the Socialist Party of Catalonia; it is a language they have acquired in recent times. As never before had the Spanish Socialist Workers Party spoken of a challenge. You have given up, in fact, the flags to the right, in this case to Citizens and the People's Party. I invite you to come to Catalonia - yes, yes, ask Mrs Chacón, Mrs Batet - and we will prove whether there is a civil fracture. To what do you repeat that there is a civil fracture? When the independenceists were 15, 12, 7 or 8%, was there a civil fracture? Did I stop talking to my neighbor that he's not an independenceist because I was a minority and didn't accept that he was a majority? No, no, We were both citizens of Catalonia He represented a majority and I a minority, and viscose democracy. [[Applauds]] If now perhaps - to be seen - things were different, then is there a fracture? When democratically - if one day happens, because the referendum will have to win it; if we don't win it, there will be no republic - the independenceists will be majority, there will be a fracture; when we weren't, there was no fracture. This is supremacy. Do you know what you're saying? Do you defend theses of a supremacy character? Get up here and tell me. And two, I don't see him as a statesman because no one is forced to run for president of the government. [[Rumors]] I wouldn't dare; I don't have the size. Now, I'm going to give you a historical example. Let me tell you this because I'm a teacher and I can't help it, and because you're younger and I can afford it. [[Laughter]] In 2013 Mandela died. Mr. Rajoy went to his funeral. How many heads of state were there? A lot. How many government presidents? A lot, even one I didn't want, Mr. Rajoy. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It's a joke. In 2013 Adolfo Suárez died. How many heads of state were there? One. Who? Theodore Obiang. Even so, this is an injustice, because even though the transition was what it was because it was protected by the very soldiers who had risen up against Republican legality, Adolfo Suárez did not deserve it, because Adolfo Suárez had a lot of courage. And I'll give you an example related to you. On June 15, 1977, in Catalonia, the left and anti-Franchist political forces won, and all the MPs, also those of the PSC, were constituted as an assembly of parliamentarians. What did Suarez do? With two nostrils - not to say another word out of respect for the House - even though there was no legislation to support it, because there were still Francoist laws, what did he do? With much courage, and possibly playing it, he agreed to the return and restoration of the only recovered republican institution, the only one: the Generalitat. [[Applauds]] Was there any legal body to do that? No, there was no legal body to do it, it was out of the law, Francoist laws did not allow it. Why did he do it? Because I suppose you understood that democracy at the time was above even the law. [[Applauds]] Where's your courage? Where's your statesman size now refusing to hold the referendum? And you have to be the president of the Spanish government? For he knows me badly for those who will still be part of the Kingdom of Spain. Luckily, we're leaving. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u83	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u84	Mr. Tardà, I'm going to answer from the seat to tell you two things. When referring to the figure of former President Suárez, he must also remember that the difference of that moment with that of now is that there is a democratic Constitution that was adopted by the majority of Catalans in 78. [[Applauds]] That's the difference, Mr. Tardà. Defending democracy is defending legality, and within the law we can talk about what you want, Mr Tardà. Even, we can talk about a new Statute for Catalonia, we can talk about funding, we can talk about competences, we can talk about what they want, but always within the Constitution and within the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, Mr Tardà. What we will never accept the socialists, we live where we live, whether in Catalonia, Andalusia, Madrid or any other territory of Spain, is that a ruler has to force his population to choose between being Catalan or being Spanish, when both identities historically, Mr Tardà, have always added. That is what you are proposing and that is what we call a fracture, and we are not going to allow it, Mr Tardà. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u85	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. We shall now suspend the sitting until three o'clock. It was one and fifty minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at three and five minutes in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the turn of parliamentary groups in this investiture session. It is now up to the Catalan Parliamentary Group to give the floor to Mr Homs. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to say President of the Government in office and Government in office, but once again they are absent, now in a literal way; I suppose they will be incorporated in the next few minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, I call on the people of Spain not to react with fear, fear or fear. Have no fear that Spain will be recognized as it is: plurinational, pluricultural and plurilingual. Accepting this, he reflects the best and not the worst of his history, defends his present and bets on his future as a reality and as a common project; in short, he reflects the best of himself. Many times Catalonia has been asked to explain how far it wanted to go and now we have told it precisely, the cards are on the table, face up. Catalonia has spoken with a clear and firm voice, peacefully and democratically, respecting the laws; now it is up to you to speak. These words that I have just read could be current, today, of these current times, but in fact they are not. They were pronounced by Artur Mas a little more than ten years ago in this same house, in the context of the presentation of the proposal of the Statue. That was an operation that was forged from the conviction in what was defended, following scrupulously all the legal channels, accompanied by the endorsement of 90% of the deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia and made from the ability to take the risks that entailed a real exercise of dialogue by the Catalan political representatives and also, it can be said, by the Government of Spain at that time. We played it and assumed a pact that was later endorsed by the people of Catalonia. Things that have life! Those who always remember that the Courts represent the sovereignty of the Spanish people - and do not lack reason - forget that in a few very specific cases, the constituent determined that the word of the Courts was not the definitive one. The adoption of a Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, as you know, requires not only the vote of Congress and the Senate, but the affirmative vote of the people of Catalonia through a referendum is necessary and binding. If you do not want to recognize this as a clear element of cosuberany, we can ironically call it 'white and bottled', a way of saying it more ironic. Let's go back to the outcome of the Statue. It is clear that if in June 2006 - soon to be ten years - the referendum on the Statute had not been voted on affirmatively, that rule adopted by the Courts would not have entered into force. I insist, you will already tell me how many times a law of the Courts may not come into force by voting in referendum of citizens of only one autonomous community. Who has the last word on this case? For we thought that, as the constituent established, the last word was held by the people of Catalonia. But it wasn't like that. As you know, after four years the Statute was, in terms of Don Alfonso Guerra, 'caught' by the Constitutional Court. This has certainly been one of the worst decisions in the history of Spanish institutions in democracy. Some of the members of the Constitutional Court have come to recognize - in private, that is, the inopportunity of that judgment. They have also recognized it - in this case in public and in private - politicians of virtually the entire parliamentary arc or professors of constitutional law. In my view, there is a deep political incapacity linked to an interested interpretation of the founding spirit of the Spanish Constitution to address the problems of organization of the Spanish State that have arisen over these thirty-seven years. They have pointed out this inability experts not suspected of being Catalan independenceists or close to our postulates, such as Professor Javier Pérez Royo. Pérez Royo said: The principle of political unity of the State requires the guarantee that nationality does not impose on the State a status that the State does not want. The right to autonomy requires a guarantee that the State will not impose on nationality the status it does not want. This double guarantee is the core - says Pérez Royo - essential of our territorial Constitution, in which the construction of the autonomous state has rested. Neither nationality - he says, I insist, Pérez Royo - nor the State can unilaterally impose on the other the content of the statute. Either they agree, or there's no statute. And Pérez Royo adds: This balance between the principle of political unity of the State and the right to autonomy disappears with the ruling of the Constitutional Court against the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. The judgment - Pérez Royo insists - eliminated the formula that the constituent had provided for the exercise of the right to decide - he says - in the definition of the norm constitutive of its autonomy by the people of Catalonia. This is - Pérez Royo insisted - what meant the decision of the Constitutional Court and that is why we find ourselves where we are. And Pérez Royo adds: The balance envisaged by the constituent for the construction of the structure of the State has disappeared, or what is the same, we have run out of territorial constitution. I insist, this is an analysis not of me, but of Mr Pérez Royo, Professor of Constitutional Law of the University of Seville, who is also shared by other people with an authorized voice in this matter. This analysis by Mr Pérez Royo seems reasonable to me and I share it. Miquel Roca, one of the parents of the Constitution, as you know, wrote an article when the ruling of the Constitutional Court took place in June 2010 against the Statute, where it literally said: Let no one make a mistake, Spain has a problem. This sentence does not solve anything and re-opens it all, because if anything reveals it is that we must reconsider the constitutive pact and define new bases for coexistence in Spain. And he clearly added forcefully, as you will see: The common project of 1978 is exhausted. The Constitutional Court has buried him. Someone will have to define the basis for this new project and see if there is a willingness to do so. I insist, Miquel Roca, almost six years ago now. I am aware that certain political actors want to erase from memory what the judgement against the Catalan Statute represented. It's the technique that practices who doesn't have a project that convinces. It is a matter of overcoming from memory and by denying or concealing problems, debts, challenges, even opportunities. It has been the technique which, in my view, the Spanish Government has practiced, particularly in the last four years, accompanied by the instrumentalization of the Administration of Justice for clearly partisan and indisguised purposes. What happened with the participatory process of November 9, 2014 I sincerely believe is a shameful example of incapacity for political management of what we might call state affairs. By the way, Mr Sánchez, do you consider that, in the face of a participatory process, it is necessary to come up with criminal complaints against those who have the constitutional obligation of what is literally provided for in Article 9.2 of the Spanish Constitution when it says that it is up to the public authorities - I quote literally - to facilitate the participation of all citizens in political life? To you, Mr Sánchez, what opinion does it deserve that the prosecution be forced to file complaints that the Board of Prosecutors itself unanimously - it unanimously stressed - considered that they had no legal basis to formulate? Returning to the technique that practices those who do not have a project that convinces, you, Mr Sánchez, when you propose to comply with the provisions of the Statute, exactly what do you mean? To the Statute cut off from the Constitutional Court or to the one he defended and voted for his party? Do you believe, as Miquel Roca said, that it is necessary - I quote literally - to define the bases of a new project and to check whether there is a willingness to do so, or rather to do nothing more than what you have proposed to us these last days? Specifically, if you consider that in this area it is not like the People's Party, could you tell me exactly what it stands out in? What we have seen so far - you will forgive me - is, in my view, a bad copy of Mr Rajoy's style: nothing to talk to the independenceists - you have said -, no more or less than with some 2 million citizens of Catalonia - is what we represent between us and the Republican Left - and the law as an excuse or as a pretext, go to know, in order not to do politics, not to make political approaches. Do not be disturbed - I say it from the heart - if we ask you what the People's Party stands out in when it approaches the Catalan agenda from when you approach it. Mr Rajoy himself acknowledged this morning that they are proposing the same thing he has defended over the past two years. But it's just that on top of it yesterday you said something that really worried me. There was a time when he literally said Catalonia is experiencing a crisis of coexistence, he has repeated it today. Are you aware of the literal meaning of this phrase? Have you set foot in Catalonia? I guess so. Do you know what is really - I suppose it is - a crisis of coexistence, what you have said? In Catalonia, as in Spain as a whole and in other European societies as well, it is true that we have many problems and some of them very fat: there is unemployment, there is poverty, there are people without hope, there are cases of corruption, but there is no problem of crisis of coexistence, I assure you. You can ask any of the Catalan MPs of any political party here whether they can walk the streets of Barcelona as in Madrid, Seville, Paris or London, and they will answer you that exactly as everywhere. Therefore, look, there is no crisis of coexistence in this regard. I believe that a crisis of coexistence is something else and I ask you to bear that in mind. Mr Sánchez, the tremendous language, in my view, completely alien to the liberal tradition of Europe and modern Europe, does not allow any dialogue to be established or any agreement to be reached or any kind of deliberation to begin. It is well known that Catalonia has openly moved from a reactive attitude to a proactive attitude. We think that Spain should do the same: propose something, give way to what they consider a problem. The new Catalan attitude has nothing to do with the treacherous challenges and omens to any constitution, but simply with a mature, peaceful and democratic society that calls for renewing its ties with Spain from freedom and from an independent and own State, as so many other nations have in our environment. I insist, Mr Sánchez, that there are not good and bad people here, but citizens who think differently and who express their views peacefully. Look, turning political discrepancy into an overcrowded tragedy is not the same as the Europe of the twenty-first century. Ask yourself, Mr Sánchez, a few questions and tell me whether you are able to give them an answer in public that is consistent with what they probably think and express in private. Without the ruling against the Statute, would the Catalan process that is currently under way have been opened? Was it neutral that the then president of the Generalitat, José Montilla, should lead the first great peaceful and democratic demonstration of the recent mobilizations that have taken place over the last five years in Catalonia, by the way, with the motto: Som una nació, nosaltres decim. We're a nation, we decide? Is there or is there no conflict of legitimacy between what represents the necessary affirmative vote in the referendum of the Catalan Statute and what constitutes a ruling of the Constitutional Court that substantially changes what people have validated with their direct vote? Does it not have anything unilateral and arbitrary even that a court, which was also highly politicized and discredited, substantially alters what was decided after a dialogue, a negotiation, a pact and a referendum? Can you imagine what would happen if the Statute that resulted from the Constitutional Court's ruling was put to the vote in Catalonia today? Do you think I'd get backed up? Do you dare to ask? If that were the case, you gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, what position would you stand for, the Statute approved in this house that the PSOE considered to be fully constitutional or the Statue that came out of the crusher of the Constitutional Court? What would they defend, not in speeches but in reality? When they refuse to hold a referendum on Catalonia's political future, do they deny it because they mainly do not know what to ask or especially because they fear the answer? Can people's response be feared in democracy? Or, even worse, can you say, as some of you have said, that we cannot shift the responsibility of deciding people? What kind of Democrat in the 21st century can sustain such a thing? Will they ever take any relevant political initiative on the subject of Catalonia? Are you willing to open a sincere and fearless dialogue about what is being proposed from Catalonia? At the expense of your answers, which I hope, I advance mine beyond what is evident. For example, today the Statute, transferred by the Constitutional Court, I am convinced that it would not be supported by 10% of the population entitled to vote in Catalonia. If you do not test it, I insist, and do not fear the answer; not asking cannot be the solution, let alone in a democratic and demanding context like the current one. My answers, which are our proposals to the main questions, are particularly familiar with them and I will also formalise them from this rostrum: First. We believe it is necessary to overcome the lack of response by the Spanish Governments to the outcome of Operation Statut, which involved the second Zapatero Government and particularly the last Rajoy Government. We believe that political action, especially by the People's Party government, has been not only regressive towards Catalonia but also very negative for the whole of Spanish society. The results of the last elections to Cortes sincerely believe that they certify it in this way, even if some want to discuss it. Monday. We believe it is essential to articulate a political response to the challenges and opportunities raised, also in relation to the Catalan agenda, and the best political response to the challenge raised is to do things on the basis of good democratic practices: to dialogue, to propose, to try to agree and, where there is no agreement, to vote. There is no solution to the issue of Catalonia without a vote, without giving it the voice that at the time was silenced by a court without prestige and highly politicized. Third. We are committed to dialogue. This is how our mandate for the Catalonian Parliament was voted on 9 November. I'm sorry it's never taken into account, at least on the part of many of you. Catalan politics is and will always be committed to dialogue and the will of pact. It's our talent and it's our attitude. In this sense don't worry, we haven't changed anything; we wouldn't know otherwise. I regret that sometimes the culture of dialogue and the pact is seen as a synonym for surrender or simply not having clear ideas. I can tell you that with this attitude we are going to face the next two months. Fourth. Finally, I have made a very concrete proposal to you. Let's put, Mr. Sanchez, the counter to zero. Yesterday by surprise, at least by my surprise, because it is not usual for a presidential candidate in an investiture debate to admit in the first of the debates what you admitted, yesterday by surprise said that your attempt at investiture was unsuccessful. You will not be elected president at the end of this debate nor on Friday; you recognized it, and it is also true. He made it clear yesterday that it wouldn't be his fault. He tried to make this clear, but actually, and you know it, he's the main one responsible for his failure, at least in this attempt. He took the charge - this is better than what Mr Rajoy did not take, right - but he has not taken the risks of the charge. I am sure you can have new opportunities, if you like, and I will not say yes or say no in this regard, but it cannot be limited to the comfortable parts of your programme. Change was voted, yes, but with content, and we - I am already making it - are ready to contribute to this change and that there may be a government in Spain. This commitment will take its full force from next Monday. Mr. Sánchez, we're willing to talk to you, and you're willing to talk to us? Because so far he's said otherwise. Yesterday he said he had no red lines but firm convictions. We can share it; it only has to be answered. I insist, are you prepared for dialogue with a peaceful, democratic option, which you may not share, and do not, of course, share, but which in any case represents what more than 2 million Catalans long for? Yesterday he found something certain and that the House as a whole must bear in mind: its 90 Members, even being the result of the worst outcome of its party's history - this is an obvious - are - he said, and it is true - the cornerstone of any government agreement that can be made after the general elections on 20 December. But he forgot to add another equally relevant fact in his analysis: any change agreement, if we talk about change, is to accept the plurinational reality and, consequently, the possibility that a referendum can be held in Catalonia. If you are the cornerstone of all combinations to form government - yes, you are - we are for this government to truly be of change. This, Mr Sánchez, may not like each other, but it is what has come out of the ballot box, it is the result of what people have voted, like it more or like it less, but the change that it proposes passes by assuming what from Catalonia is demanded by 80% of its population. If not, it is true that you have at your disposal, and other political groups have told you, a government of great coalition which, if it were to occur, with what we have heard this morning, would, without doubt, be without you and also without Mr Rajoy, to the extent that both - you have said - have self-defined, or defined each other, as caps for any agreement. It's how things have been arranged this morning. In the meantime, if your position is the one we have known so far, I already announce that our vote will be no to your investiture. We don't see any purpose for change beyond the old and anti-political, as far as I'm concerned, take it away from me. It doesn't convince us with this argument. What I have reasoned with you justifies our political position, which is not the proposal that brings us to this investiture debate today, but of course there are other reasons for the agreement signed between you and Citizens. To justify this agreement between the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and Citizens, you support yourself in another reading of the election results reflected in this House, which is also true. He says: It is not possible to have a left government or a right government. All right. Now what has surprised me - I sincerely say - is the outcome of this analysis that you apply. It says, "Well, let's make a government - I quote literally - of ideological intertwining. From my point of view, it has been one of the most surprising contributions of your speech yesterday, I sincerely say. So many years of listening from the right and from the left that what my dear friend Carlos Campuzano called political bisexuality was anathema - this ideological mestization was anathema - and now it turns out to be something modern and necessary. I can share it, look what I tell you; in fact, we have some experience in betting on paths of general interest - evidence we have given and in what way - and common sense, but I remind you that your political formation - also others - has accused us on many occasions of precisely what yesterday you presented as great novelty, as a great opportunity, as a great necessity. Furthermore, this approach does not excuse you from making a proposal, for example in the economic field. Yesterday what we saw and what we have continued to see today is that they do not have an economic model that can be contrasting. Yesterday he did not talk about industry, trade, the internationalization of our productive model, tourism, energy costs, the commitment to knowledge, the challenge of logistics and the major communications and telecommunications infrastructures. In short, we do not hear what their growth model is and cannot be combated in Europe, at least in our view, austerity policies if we do not have clear, defined and precise ideas about which growth model is being defended. Yesterday we could not see a programme in this sense, economic, that is contradictory. Nor in this context of ideological intertwining we saw yesterday a clear position on how to defend the welfare state. Apart from phrases that we could all subscribe to and cite the most common places, in reality what model of the welfare state defends, the state model, which distrusts the concertation and collaboration between the public dimension and the social initiative, which has promoted and in what way the Government of the People's Party, or would be more in favour of a Nordic model of inspiration, in which the role of the welfare state is not of the person who provides the service but of the person who receives it, that is, of the citizens? By the way, his notes on the social emergency shock plan and his commitment to rebuilding - he said - the welfare state clearly contradicts the recognized competition framework of the autonomous communities. If you really want to start rebuilding the welfare state, the first and fastest thing you could do is redistribute the effort to meet the deficit. Translated, so that everyone can understand it: the cuts so far have been mainly behind the backs of the public administrations that support the main welfare policies, which are, as you know, the Autonomous Administration and the Local Administration, while the General Administration of the State has made a much smaller effort. That is true, the People's Party government has been blaming those who had no room to act for four years, showing - I believe, sincerely - a major institutional disloyalty. In this area, you have made nothing concrete from the point of view of this possible redistribution of the achievement of deficit targets. The document signed by you and Citizens is certainly comprehensive. It mentions many issues, it touches many issues, we have analyzed each and every one of them carefully - it was our obligation - but it allows to say to the Socialist Party - for lack of concreteness, because if not, I do not explain it - one thing in some specific points and to Citizens exactly the opposite. For example, the linguistic immersion: for the spokesman of Ciutadans in the Parliament of Catalonia, Mrs Arrimadas, the signed agreement burys the linguistic immersion - she said so -; for the spokesman also in the Parliament of Catalonia of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, Miquel Iceta, does not bury anything but preserves precisely the competences of the autonomous communities. What are we left with? Can you tell us? Are you in favour of linguistic immersion? Are you in favour of Catalan as a vehicle language? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: The Two Things]] Are you in favour of the provisions agreed and established in the Catalan Education Act that are fully in force? There are other examples but by time saving I cannot place them, if at all on the turn of the replica. I finish my speech, Mr President. Forty years after General Franco's death, Spanish society has shown its democratic maturity on multiple occasions and contexts, starting with limit situations - we could say so - such as the attempted coup d'état in this house in 1981, and much later rebelling against the March 2004 lie. This maturity has been not only political but also social and mental. In four decades, there has been a shift from an anachronistic world to an advanced one, which is homologable to any country in Europe; yet, in my view, has this democratic maturity also affected the values and attitudes of the old elites? Has this change of mindset also occurred in certain extractive sectors located in Madrid and arising from the privatization of the large state enterprises that were created during the dictatorship? The reality of an open, dynamic and democratic society should be decoupled from the more particular interests of elites who, in order to parapet, appeal to the unity of Spain with sometimes threatening and certainly inflated language. You quoted yesterday - and I finish - Fernando de los Ríos to remind us that perhaps the only outstanding revolution in Spain is that of respect. Well, maybe this is true. In this sense I would ask you to make an effort to simply respect - not to share, but to respect - what is being done, taking place in Catalonia and what is proposed by a large majority of people and political parties also there. We, Mr Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen, will be waiting, I say to you, open to a dialogue without veto on our part, I assure you, nor prejudice; I will also tell you that without memory, because we have accumulated some experience. In the meantime, also to be clear in our position, we will not fail to walk the path that citizens have marked us in the ballot box and that it is none other than the one that follows the democratic institutions of Catalonia, where, by the way, as you know, there is a government with the capacity to act and with a program to implement. Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr candidate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Homs. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Homs, I thank you for the tone of your speech and I would like to, because this is indeed a debate of investiture, not to walk in the branches and tell you clearly that we do not share your conversion to independence, that of the Parliamentary Group Democrácia i Llibertat, and that, therefore, that puts us in opposite positions and approaches; but, whenever it is within the law and the Constitution, of course your debate and your aspiration is legitimate. Therefore, I say the same to the representative of the Republican Left Group: outside the law there is nothing to talk about and within the law we can talk about many things. I'd like to make a statement of principles so that things are clear, Mr. Homs. We are not the same as those who promoted from Catalonia a statute that others who boycotted it from the first moment, even putting small tables in other parts of Spain against Catalonia. [[Applauds]] It is true that we do not have a vision of Spain like the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We recognize the uniqueness, identity and diversity of the territories of Spain. So much so that the Socialist Party is twinned in Catalonia with the Party of Socialists of Catalonia; that is, we are two different parties and, consequently, we recognize the diversity and identity of Catalan society. Returning to the beginning of the intervention, I tell you to abandon any desire for unilateral rupture, unilateral declaration of independence, laws of disconnection, etc. Forget it. That's not the way. That path will only lead to the fracture, frustration and failure of the people who are defending it. I am very drawn to the attention that you now defend the referendum again, when you or your partners and party partners in Catalonia, when you presented Catalonia Yes, it is Pot a parliamentary initiative in the Catalan Parliament to vote for the right to self-determination and consultation, voted against. You voted against and, in addition, used the argument that that screen of independence had already surpassed it. Mr Homs, I sincerely believe that they are using the consultation again simply as a scarecrow or lure not to support or encourage the unlocking of a government in our country. I'll tell you what, Mr. Homs. I am very drawn to the attention that in order to amend the Statute of Catalonia which you so much defend - you criticize it, but in any case it is the legal rule from which political life is governed in Catalonia - two thirds of the Catalan Parliament is needed and, instead, you are putting forward a referendum in which a simple majority can illuminate the independence of Catalan society. [[Applauds]] Mr Homs, I do not know whether or not there is a crisis of coexistence in Catalonia right now. The obvious thing is that breaking with democratic legality, placing Catalonia outside the Spanish statute and the Spanish Constitution - a statute and a constitution that was voted by the majority of Catalan society - is, in my opinion, an obvious risk of suffering this crisis of coexistence in Catalan society. We don't want that, Mr. Homs. This is not the first time, and I do not believe that I have on many occasions not questioned the reasons for their change, their conversion from moderate nationalism or Catalanism to independence. In your old version of Convergence and Unified you participated in the great consensus in Spain. You participated in the consensus of the Constitution, the Moncloa Covenants, the 1979 and 2006 statutory covenants. You participated in the governance of Spain with the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party. You even helped - it's fair to remember here - that Spain was not rescued, while others, who call themselves patriots, said: let Spain sink, that we will already come to rescue it. Mr Homs, I recognize it; I recognize it to each and every member of your parliamentary group. It is clear that there are subjective reasons - for which I do not go in - for such a conversion to exist, but there are also objective reasons that I believe we can perfectly ignore, to avoid both your parliamentary group and mine. That is, we can build bridges, abandon the rhetoric of confrontation and foster a dialogue, which is precisely what we need. You referred to my speech yesterday. In it I reached out and said that, if in the end we have Government in Spain, of course the first thing we will do is activate the bilateral commission that has not met since 2011 between the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Government of Spain. I also said, Mr Homs, that I was prepared to put a stop to that re-centralizing momentum that the Government has in place, as well as the People's Parliamentary Group. I even said that we were willing to review, simply as a gesture to open a door for dialogue between the two administrations, between the two governments, the famous twenty-three points which on 30 July former President Mas presented to the President of the Government in office, Mr Rajoy. Of course, Mr Homs, regarding the first point of that request for agreement - because it did not come to agreement - of a scenario of budgetary consolidation for the financial year 2015 - which I understand can be perfectly possible for 2016 and which you pointed out here in your speech when you said that this sharing of budgetary effort and public deficit commitments has to be much more equitable between the Autonomous Communities and the General Administration of the State - that is the position of the Socialist Party. We have defended it in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, as the Finance Adviser of the Generalitat de Catalunya knows, among other issues because the autonomous governments of the Socialist Party called for a much more equitable distribution between the General Administration of the State and the autonomous communities regarding the fulfilment of public deficits. We know that in the end what has happened over the past four years is that the Government of the People's Party has discharged all fiscal consolidation into the hands of the autonomous communities and the municipalities and not those of the General Administration of the State. At the end of what we are talking about is health, education, dependence, social policies, redistribution policies, which are in fact in the hands of the autonomous communities. Therefore, regarding the first of the famous twenty-three points - i.e., the scenario of budgetary consolidation for 2015, in this case 2016, I say to you that yes, we can of course negotiate a different public deficit commitment for all the autonomous communities and for the Generalitat of Catalonia much more equitable in the budgetary effort than the one that the Government of Spain has set right now. His party has defended in these famous twenty-three points the fulfilment of the commitments arising from the third additional provision of the Statute of Catalonia. This is something that the PSC and the Socialist Parliamentary Group here, in the Congress of Deputies, have repeatedly called on the majority of the People's Parliamentary Group in the General Budgets of the State for the past parliamentary term. I am already telling you that we can understand each other in this area as well. We can also understand the consequences of the reform of the electricity sector for the industrial sector in Catalonia. You know that this is an issue that has also occupied us during the last parliamentary term. We can also understand in point six, the recovery of the investment of the General Government of the State in infrastructure in Catalonia, as well as in reducing or resolving the structural deficit in financing the public health system in Catalonia. At this point, Mr Homs, when you ask me or reflect on what is the model on the welfare state I am defending, you will allow me to say to you, with all due respect: just the opposite of what you or your Government are implementing in the Generalitat of Catalonia; just the opposite. [[Applauds]] We do not want to privatize primary care as you are doing in Catalonia. Therefore, to solve the structural deficit in the financing of the public health system? Of course we can see it. Insufficient funding in the Unit Act? That is something that we Socialists have criticized during the last parliamentary term. What the Government of Spain has done has been to violate the Unit Act. You know that half of that Unit Act has to be financed by the General Administration of the State, and has been cut by about 30 points; that is, right now the contribution of the General Administration of the State to the financing of the unit is about 20 per cent. In the end, it has been the autonomous governments that have had to make a greater effort to keep alive the fourth pillar of the welfare state, which is dependency. Therefore, the commitment we have signed with Citizens also raises the issue of revitalizing the Unit Act and improving its funding. Active employment policies? What comes in the agreement signed between the two political groups, Mr Homs. Is the effects of rationalisation and sustainability of local government, i.e. the harmful effects and privatization of many of the social services that are in the hands of the municipalities today? The approach the Socialist Party is taking in this agreement is precisely its repeal, Mr Homs. Reducing institutional conflict? Of course, that is one of the objectives that I am going to set myself, if I have the honour of being President of the Government, among other issues because in the constitutional reform that we are putting forward both parliamentary groups what we are saying is that we have to set once and for all the competences that lie in the General Administration of the State, in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities. Application of Lomce. The deal is clear, Mr. Homs. That's the seventeenth point of his famous twenty-three points. In the implementation of the Lomce we are saying: to paralyse the Lomce and, consequently, to illuminate a new educational pact that has an effect far beyond the electoral processes. University scholarships. We are proposing, Mr Homs, that the public tuition prices, that is, the university tuition of our students, should be linked to the income of families, rather than as has happened over the past four years. Special work centres and unilateral cut-off of funds for the rural development programme are also issues that I raised, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Homs, yesterday in my investiture speech. Mr Homs, therefore, we have the will, the determination and the courage to build bridges with the Generalitat of Catalonia, to open a process of dialogue, reform and agreement, but of course we cannot do this by skipping democratic legality and skipping the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. We will do so within the law, Mr Homs, what happens is that what you are doing is precisely placing Catalonia outside that democratic law. If you have the right to put forward and review your position and return to the side of democratic legality, we, Mr Homs, are prepared to talk about everything, about constitutional reform. The commitment we have in that agreement is to open a subcommission in the Constitutional Commission to begin to define the perimeter of constitutional reform and to shed light on what we have defined as a state with federal structure. I believe, Mr Homs, that we have a lot of ground there to gain all the political forces and, of course, the citizens we serve live in Catalonia or Spain as a whole. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u90	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Homs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Candidate, four notes. Know, if you do not take this sufficiently into account, that the welfare state model that has been built throughout all these years of democracy in Catalonia has been done together, you and we. I am not going to take away any merit from the Socialist Party of Catalonia, but we have done it together - I say this for its assertion before -; as we have done together the Health Act, the Education Act, the Social Services Act; as we have also made decisions together that have helped not to break the welfare state in Catalonia and Spain. Remember, because it also seems to me that I was a Member and voted for it, of the validation of the royal decree, certainly very controversial, in 2010, I think I remember that in May, which you, the Socialist Group, approved, and which only got the support of Convergence i Unified, because the patriots of the People's Party, which now give us lessons all day to save Spain in all light, behaved simply - you know, I say by noting the facts - in a purely partisan way. That decision, which was complex and led us all to great contradictions, was also to save the welfare state, was it not? With this in mind, the Socialist Party and we have shared much more than the fact of pointing out the shortcomings and mistakes that we have all obviously made. Put it this way, for it is as the facts have been, and not from what prejudices. You have said here that in relation to us they are in the antipodes, exactly the opposite as regards the model of well-being. It's exactly the opposite, and the facts support it. Second consideration, he mentioned aspects that we could share: how to focus on meeting deficit targets, the twenty-three updated points. That's what I'm saying. It's true that then, when you enter the small letter, you have a lot of doubts. We have a certain experience because it was you, for example, who committed - this is also on that list - to a plan of closeness of 4 billion euros announced to Bombo i Plateret, as it is said in Catalonia, and then did not comply, neither by the government of Zapatero, which had two years to comply with it, nor evidently by the People's Party. Or now they come to us - it is already interesting, to seek mutual contradictions - with a commitment to reform the financing model, which is indeed established in the law that must be complied with, forgetting all the qualifications that they gave to that historical financing model: the best in the history of Spain, of democratic Spain, that had never been approved. Now it does not turn out to be so good if it has to be reviewed, for example, as you say - you have said literally - to guarantee precisely the essential services of the welfare state, which are not guaranteed by this funding model that you did. We weren't there. We might agree to share some of these points, but I wonder if this is compatible with the agreement they have signed with Citizens. I asked in a very precise way: Are you in favour of linguistic immersion or not? It tells us to withdraw the Lomce - we agree -, to seek a new framework in the field of language legislation - to know what this means - but there is a very concrete question that many people are asking: is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in favour or not of the linguistic immersion that we have agreed, by the way, historically with the Socialist Party in Catalonia? From these aspects, which we could share, you will understand that with the agreement that you have signed with Citizens appear to me - I say soft - reasonable doubts. Acts of faith at this point in the film are not going to make them much less. Thirdly - and we are going to the centre, in my view at least - you said it yesterday and you keep it today, and it is also a truth: any formula of government with the arithmetic that is in this Chamber passes through you. If there is government, one way or another, you will be. You can't say the same about everyone else, but you can. They really have a result full of contrasts, because they stuck a chestnut in the ballot boxes as the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, and they have not ceased to recognize it, but at the same time they have an almost magical situation, in which any form of government passes through you. Here are, in short and in essence - in fact they plan in the environment, to speak clearly - three alternatives, I don't see anymore. There is an alternative, which was the one that seemed - as Mr Rajoy said this morning - that you would undertake, of a government of the left, of progressive order, certainly of change, with which you could not fully agree, to disagree in nothing or in part; but in any case a progressive government of the left would undoubtedly be a government of change. This would be a government of change. It seemed like you were walking around, but why didn't you dare? This is the question, which we all know a little bit. You blame Podemos for a press conference. That seems to me to be a very just argument. It's been three years in Catalonia for us to be together in the government. I believe that right now, if you want to take responsibility, you have to welcome everyone, even if your ideas are not shared. I think it teaches a lot of things to be in government. The changes in speech from when you are in the opposition or in the government, from when you are in the opposition and in the government, are fabulous. Right or not? But for everyone. For some, less, Mr Sánchez; for some, less. We, in that decision that I told you before, that decision that we made and that we helped to make the Government of Spain in 2010, were in opposition. Give me just one example of a decision of this kind a few months from an election, as we had in Catalonia, in which someone plays it this way while in opposition. We, in opposition; you, ruling in Catalonia. By the way, more than half of the Catalonian government of that time voted against. There are things in which we have certainly been wrong, but there are others - perhaps very few, but relevant - in which no one beats us in coherence on this ground, because neither you, nor you, have ever done this when you have been in opposition; never. Nor these four years, because it is true that the People's Party - it is an objective fact, what happens is that they boast in a way that leaves you puzzled - has also found many difficulties and you have not found them at all, being partly responsible for what you have left. Therefore, there is the possibility of change government, the possibility of a large coalition or elections. By incorporating the People's Party into the agreement you have now signed with Citizens, you can count it in whatever way you want, but this is not a change. [[Rumors]] It's not. With this, as arithmetically speaking, we have, as I say, the option of a government call it progress or whatever, of a government of great coalition or elections. There are these three options, and you know what, Mr. Sanchez? They're all going through you, and in that we're all going to be -- and we all have our responsibility -- from Monday, because what we've been through so far has just been... I don't know how to qualify it. I think it wasn't a bluff, I honestly say it; I think you can explain things in a more elegant way. Well, it's been an apprenticeship, an appetizer, because you can see that this doesn't work in any way. With which, you have this responsibility, which is no less. Finally, I don't share many of the things you do; in fact... A lot of things I don't share; I leave it that way. [[Laughter]] But to sit at a table to talk and even try to negotiate with you I wouldn't ask you to give up your postulates. If you want and pretend that in order to sit at a table we will give up our postulates, I tell you that we will not, and I do not want to place that in an attitude of intransigence, but it is that no one can ask this. The question is very simple: is it possible to establish a space for dialogue and even negotiation without the need for the parties who set it up to have to resign from their postulates? If you do not see today what movements there are in this House - I already understand that today does not touch and probably Friday neither - if you do not know how to take advantage of them from Monday, it will be your responsibility, what you want me to say to you. In the background we have a position, if you like, meridianly comfortable; our most comfortable position is to follow our path in Catalonia, because there is government there. This issue aroused many words, many speeches during the last quarter of last year, and also many laughter, but they have won us over. [[Applauds]] You have really outdone us, because the situation of blocking the Spanish political system has outdone the laughter that occurred with what was happening in Catalonia. Catalonia, you will like it more or you will like it less - there are opinions for all tastes - but there is a project that is being implemented and that is going to be carried out, with which our comfortable position would be to disagree with everything that can happen here and simply dedicate ourselves to taking a tour - that we will do, I don't say no - to our project in Catalonia. But we care what can happen here because it will affect us; whether or not we are independent - which I think we will be - this will affect us, it is our concern, because it is true that the ties, the links, will be maintained, because simply - in fact, it is what we are proposing - the only thing that would happen - which is not less and I admit it - is that the relationship between Catalonia and Spain would change, but there would continue to be a great relationship, this would continue to be so. You can like it or not, you can see it in a trembling way, you can see it in a very critical way, tastes will be there and everyone will be legitimate, look what I say to you, but in any case it would be a different way to relate fruit of a whole process and also certainly democratic. With which our comfortable position here today would be simply: All that is yours does not interest us; we already have our way and we disagree. But we do not; you will already do the relevant reflection, because it is true - I finish this and thank you, Mr President - that it happens to you if there are elections, if there is a government of change or if there is a great coalition. From Monday, I'm willing to talk about it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u92	Thank you, Mr. Homs. I give the floor to the candidate for President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u93	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you, Mr. Homs. We can share a model of welfare state, but I tell you one thing, Mr Homs, scissors have been applied by the Government of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. And I will tell you more, Mr Homs, you can wear it as you please, but the sum of the left has no majority right now in this House; moreover, the intervention that Esquerra Republicana has made I think gives me the reason not to make rest the governability of Spain in a party like that - that of Esquerra Republicana - that precisely wants to break with Spain. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Homs, we are clear, we decided on 21 December. If you are waiting for us to change our position, I am sorry but it is not going to be so; we have already decided: we want change in our country, we do not want the People's Party government to continue one more day and it will be in the hands of the 350 Members that Mr Rajoy becomes history and does not continue as President of the Government in office. Mr Homs, on 27 September Mr Mas, former President of the Generalitat, summoned the Catalans to a plebiscite and said in text that the yeses and the noes were to be counted, and the noes won the yeses. [[Several Members of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on Democracy and Llibertat: No, no!]] Yes, Mr. Homs, yes. He did not win independence in Catalonia on 27 September; I'm sorry, but he did. Even among those who are defending the right to decide - i.e. to break with national sovereignty - there are some who are saying that they do not want Catalonia's independence. With which, Mr Homs, do the math, the independenceists did not win in Catalonia on 27 September. We're gonna hold hands. I have offered you an agreement with those 23 points; I have told you that we can open a dialogue and debate with those famous 23 points which Mr Mas presented to the President-in-Office today, Mr Rajoy. I believe that we can launch the bilateral commission that exists between the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Government of Spain, which has not met, ladies and gentlemen, since 2011. I think we can build bridges; I think we can start talking about solutions instead of reproaching ourselves; I think we can start talking in the face of as much silence as there has been between Mr Mas and the President-in-Office today, Mr Rajoy, but it is in your hand, Mr Homs. Of course, I tell you one thing: if you expect the Socialist Party to break with Spain's national sovereignty, I tell you that is not the way. Things like reforming the Constitution and, of course, talking within the law about all the renovations of the pacts we want, we can do, but outside the Constitution, a party like ours, which has been architect of the Spanish Constitution, cannot be asked. We are waiting for him, we reach out to him and, of course, within the Constitution, we can talk about the renewal of that pact. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u94	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Homs, from the seat, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, we do not expect you to break anything, we simply expect you to do politics, I sincerely say; we simply hope that you can vote normally in a referendum. Do you really believe that there are no legal tools in a democracy like that of Spain in order to formalise a consultation in Catalonia on its political future? Do you really believe that? And I'm not saying it, it's been said by many responsible, academics, constitutional experts, people of all kinds. Do not use certain interested readings of the laws to drain the package. I am not saying that you should be in favour of Catalonia's independence, it would be missing more, nor would I think, but it would make it easier for you to vote, which is what the Constitutional Court has ruined. I simply say this to you: make it easier for you to vote in Catalonia; a compromise, let's say, of democratic will, as simple as that. Why are you afraid that Catalonia can be expressed in the ballot box in a referendum? Is this necessarily to break Spain or is it that you are already starting from the idea that you have lost it and are going to do everything you can and are at your disposal so that we cannot show in contrast what reality is? What happened on September 27th? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Make no mistake, because you are no one - neither am I - to count as nos those who said they were nos; neither are you. There was clearly 47% in favour of independence, clearly 39% against and the rest of the voters, the remaining 14%, said - they said during the election campaign - that they did not want to be counted either in the yes or in the no. I won't count them in the yes, but neither can you put them in the no. He has made very correct, very accurate analyses, for example, of the outcome of the elections on 20 December, as this has to be kept in all the analyses he does and must do. Finally - and look at what I'm going to say to you, because I said it for myself has its end - there is a majority to make a left-wing government, make no mistake; it depends on you. [[Applauds]] Yes, there is. Don't be fooled, there is; what happens, Mr. Sánchez, is that it's not comfortable, and I admit it. It is not comfortable, I admit, because it has 90 Members, but the majority exists if you are willing to activate it. [[Rumors]] She's not gonna be comfortable. In that sense, those of us who have, say, predisposition to the general interest will have the obligation to understand that it will not be comfortable, especially for the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, but it is... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u96	Thank you, Mr. Homs. You've run out of time. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u97	Mr. Homs, I want to make several considerations. The first, that to modify the Statute of Catalonia two thirds of the Catalan House are needed and you are posing independence nothing more and nothing less from Catalonia of Spain with a simple majority in referendum. Man, Mr. Homs! [[Rumors]] But if the Catalans already voted on 27 September; the Catalans voted and said no to independence. How many times does Catalan society have to vote for you to listen to it? I am even convinced that within that 48 % who voted for independence theses, for example for Junts pel Yes, there are a majority of Catalans who do not want independence or leave things as they are, Mr Homs. And that is the way that the Socialist Party and the one I intend to open up, but always within the Constitution and respect for democratic legality, Mr Homs, because outside the law there is nothing, there is no democracy, there is only the will of the strongest. With regard to the second consideration, the Socialist Party - and I, as a socialist and as a Democrat - is not afraid of any vote; none. The solution that we are proposing to the House and to Catalan society is precisely that they vote, but that they vote on an agreement, not that they vote on a fracture, Mr Homs, because what they are proposing is that those who are defending the rupture of national sovereignty and that Catalan society vote on the rupture of Spain are simply proposing a fracture, not an agreement, Mr Homs. That is why we want to establish an agreement, that is why we want to open the constitutional reform in the Congress of Deputies and that is why we want to raise a different relationship between Catalonia and the whole of Spain. Are you willing to do that? Are the independentist parliamentary forces willing to recognize their mistake, which has gone off the screen, by colloquially using the terms you used to reject precisely what Catalonia proposed Yes, it is Pot in the Catalan Parliament saying that the referendum is already a past screen? Are you willing to acknowledge that we have to build bridges, that we can do nothing but understand Catalonia and the whole of Spain? That is the approach we are taking, Mr Homs. Thirdly, I did not know that you were the spokesman for the left in this House, Mr Homs. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Yes, I will tell you one thing: if you intend - and I understand that you do it because you are ruling with them in Catalonia - that the Government of Spain rests on the backs of Republican Left, I say no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u98	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. The turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u99	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in line with other speakers, a reminder of those forty years that will be celebrated tomorrow of the five workers killed in Gasteiz and more than one hundred and fifty people injured. [[Continues your intervention in Basque]] [[Applauds]] These past elections have probably meant a before and after in the history of the system established under the 1978 Constitution, an election that has brought a new spectrum of parties to which we must adhere in the political future. At the same time, it gives the impression that an already consumed stage is being left behind in which the parameters of political logic were others, a stage consumed by a State that has not been able to articulate properly in terms of the independence between powers or in the articulation of its nations, which, without being recognized, show tainted political dynamics of its own; a State with important internal conflicts and which is not known to give political response, among other reasons because it still does not assume the multinational reality. Today, politics is called into question for the reasons pointed out, but not just for these reasons, also for the management that has been made of the economy during times of good times making citizens believe that the real-estate bubble, easy money and growth without a strong industrial base or without a commitment to innovation could serve something. A State also questioned by the management of the public, management that in some places, in some areas, in a more or less generalized way, has become corruption, corruption accepted - or supported in some places - perhaps in times of economic tranquility and less transparency, but that has become something unworkable for the vast majority of citizens in the current times. And in the heat of this situation new actors have emerged on the political scene, which has produced an unprecedented situation in this Parliament, which is who has to clarify whether or not the support is given to that person proposed by the head of State; new political agents and a division of seats that makes it necessary to participate in various political formations to govern. They are new situations and new situations are often challenging, of course they are; they can even give vertigo in certain circumstances. But at the same time, Mr. candidate, they can become a great opportunity, an opportunity to face new or old issues that had so far remained frozen - parked rather - and opens up possibilities to deepen and reflect, to seek greater support for challenges that had simply been decided to ignore. The challenge, but also the opportunity, is greater if we are all aware of our responsibilities, being also aware that none can achieve one hundred percent of their positions and approaches. In a complex negotiation process such as this one before us, in my opinion, there are three fundamental issues to be clarified from the outset: who, what, how. You had different options to go to work on supporting your candidacy, Mr Sánchez, and also different ways to do so. I mean, he was free to choose not only with whom he wanted to form a majority, but also the different ways to move forward, to work the materials to build that majority. This is, defining who and what. In the face of such a complex picture, so divided politically and with some of the less experienced actors in building political agreements, the most logical thing - in my opinion - is to draft documents where the agreements are short and concrete; documents that are not very extensive, so that they do not contradict or disturb other political groups with which they are also being negotiated. And to go to the point, to look for what is essential in order to be able to bring to a successful conclusion not only their choice but the viability of a government. However, the documents they have repeatedly used on their own initiative have been long, long and comprehensive. And the more text, the more chance of stumbling into a complicated situation like this. On the other hand, Mr Sánchez, the political axes sought as a livelihood must not be contradictory in themselves. And, thirdly, how. I believe that it is also important not to make large exhibitions of certain agreements that can then drive away the rest of the potential partners; agreements that per se do not mean enough Members no longer to carry out a legislature but simply to carry out their candidacy as President of the Government do not need to be displayed with so much pomp and ceremony. He came to my head when he saw him sign his agreement with Mr. Rivera a Spanish saying: "We haven't saddled yet, and we're riding. [[Laughter]] I think that - as I will say later - a new time is going to be opened and that this time that has passed so far also comes well to reflect and to know how to take steps and what is important when it comes to making agreements: what can be that cement and what can be the rods that structure a possible agreement. Nor - I have to admit it, Mr Sánchez - has helped in no way to the success of your candidacy that kind of media negotiation that has taken place in many cases, with press briefings and press setbacks one day and the other too. It's nothing good for me to go through with a negotiation. But, Mr Sánchez, you went to take options - it was logical - and you took the option of building with Citizens a document that could have remained on those five generic axes announced by Mr Rivera, and if you want anything else, but that turned to dessert into a sixty-six-page text in which there is much concreteness and some commitments that, of course, make other political formations look out. And now, right now, you're asking for the vote on your candidacy little less than free et amore, sort of like saying, "Fie me, even if I've been able to sign things that you don't like at all or even that you can bother them; but, trust me because the alternative is worse." Why should you trust the political groups you are asking for your vote that your policy will take into account those issues that have even been put to you in writing and those that you have given a no for an answer, failed to enter or decafeinated completely in your offer? Why are we going to have to think that what has not dared to sign or agree is going to compromise to carry it forward simply because we fall more or less well - that it is true that the personal relationship is excellent -? Precisely this is the issue, that we are certain that you - the political programme you want to carry out - will do certain policy, and for that it is not good to require the vote in an empty way, there is a need for concrete results. You - you have recognized it - have only 130 votes, only 130 votes. I would say that few understand why you have chosen that axis, for a party that today - I don't know in the future - allow me, with a nebulous ideology, only finds its definition, as it was born, in the denial of Catalan and Basque nationalism. And it has done so with such a level of concreteness that it makes it very difficult for others to support it. Please note that - I have not said this before but I am going to tell you now - Mr Rivera has talked about state covenants and the state covenants with nationalists are an impossible one. Either covenants are made with God or with the devil, and with the nationalists it is rather with the devil. But, Mr Rivera, time to time, because you will realize that normally the Basque nationalists - and I think I can also say this about the Catalans - when we speak, discuss and sign our word, and I would say more to you, I would tell you that much more loyally than some state parties. [[Applauds]] Having said that, what was Mr. Rivera thinking? Because if pacting with the Basque nationalists - PNV - is to make pacts with the devil, he certainly wasn't thinking of making an axis that would give you a certain majority. Because you were negotiating with us and at the same time with other groups, with Podemos, with Compromís, but he wasn't thinking about that, because for him, today for today - I hope that in the future it won't be like that, Mr. Rivera, we'll get to know each other a little bit better -, to deal with the nationalists is to make pacts with the devil. So, what was the target, Mr. Rivera? Its aim was certainly to become a statesman, to sign a role and to appear here making his speech but not to present a real alternative to government. And you have gone in there without realizing that that made it impossible for many things; even the other party did not have that intention. If I'm honest with you, I personally miss the keys to that movement, above all, I insist, because if it had been a concrete, defined document, some axes, I'm sure we can all look for and find some things we can agree on, but that is a document, as you say, with 200 specific points. I miss what the keys are, especially considering that on the other axis I might have had the possibility of a simpler majority. You tell me: There is no majority. I do not know; probably for the investiture it would have been easier than on the other hand, although to sustain a government for four years and balanced I will not deny that the issue is complicated, but everything can be armed. Of course, if citizens have given such majorities and you believe that there has to be a government of change, and so on, everything can be talked about, everything can be studied and everything can be seen. I don't understand it; I don't know if you have to understand it within your party and in some keys. Maybe you should think that the big coalition isn't that far off. I do not know exactly what you have intended to do with the negotiations; of course, with regard to us neither you nor your party have committed themselves to anything at all; no fact, although it is true that there were good words. Please note that we have been willing to explore the possibility of understanding ourselves until the last moment, without veto, believing that it should be possible, in the hope of addressing from loyalty basic issues for the State and the citizens, but from the Basque agenda, of matters of particular interest to Euskadi, nothing at all. And neither in his speech. It seeks our support in this session and proposes that we support it by knowing the signature of a single document which, among other things, strongly denies the possibility of consulting Catalans or Basques about their political future. We already knew what you - and Mr Rivera even more - think about the right to decide, but is it necessary to explicitly deny, from the root, any possibility of consultation in a document of agreement between parties when you are so in need of votes? I know who I'm dealing with and what we each think. But that is what it is about, to make agreements even though there are very big differences. I know what everyone thinks and where everyone is, and I don't need to write it. Of course, I'm not going to put in things that prevent you from making moves to achieve majorities. We were very aware of that, you seem to be not so much, or perhaps so. I'm going to give you some other example of that on the Basque agenda, zero. Reform of the Local Government Rationalization and Sustainability Act, municipal law. I am not going to tell you that it is a good law because for the whole of the State it is more than probably not, but it is, on the other hand, for the municipalities of the Basque Autonomous Community and of Navarra, because their differences, competences and autonomy in this matter are specifically clear, now more than ever, recognizing a differentiated municipal system, based on the foral fact. We have proposed that if they intend to amend the law they should respect in the new legislation everything related to this own system and, in this way, they also respect the content of what may be within a few days the Basque municipal law. You for now have made deaf ears to that mention, to accept that difference. Is that the federalism that awaits us from your hands? More uniformity, references to article 137 of the Constitution? This document that they have signed with Citizens, Mr. candidate, is also based on the initial document that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party put forward as the basis of a government to which they called the Programme for a Progressive and Reformist Government. This document was, as we said, plagued by cross-cutting policies in the field of social rights. Competencies that are in the hands of the autonomous communities and that you want to ensure through coordinating or control bodies created specifically or affirming more powers for sectoral conferences or even through basic regulations. We do not share it; it is an invasion of our realm of self-government. As a party we take the economic situation very seriously. Believe me that our goal - and so we present ourselves to the citizenry - is to contribute to institutional stability at a time when we are economically facing very important challenges. There are many unknowns in the economic future and we are quite at odds with what has been done in the last four years, which should have served to reform the economic foundations of the State and has simply not been done so. I believe that it should also have been used to deal seriously with the political reforms that are more than necessary. It has gone simply and simply to a policy of austerity, without any other objective than to reduce the deficit in which both social services and investments from the public administration would have been sacrificed to boost the economy. With the economic crisis as a pretext, the policy of the People's Party has brought about a re-centralisation of measures and policies, from the back to the self-government, ultimately with more disfigured and less effective autonomy statutes. An excess austerity that has brought social cuts. In short, a change of economic model towards greater precariousness, with less rights and less wages, with more volatile contracts. We have tried - and I think we have managed - to do a different policy in Basque. We would like the State to straighten its way in that direction. We agree with you on the request to the European Union for greater flexibility in meeting public deficit targets, not only because this makes budgetary implementation possible in all public administrations, but also because we need to direct policy towards an impetus to aggregate demand. But, how curious that after four years of a People's Party refusing to renegotiate in Europe, as our own group asked, the debt reduction, I think it was yesterday when, through the ABC newspaper, the government in office told us that it has achieved another year to reduce the deficit to 3%. Be careful, Mr Sánchez, that the sponsors of the great coalition will try to give the bear a hug with their own program. Of course, we are not going to find ourselves in an agreement which proposes, for example, a small increase of 1% in the inter-professional minimum wage, nor does it directly derogate, without palliatives, from Article 82.3 of the labour reform, among other aspects of it. If there is no proper diagnosis of the economic situation, appropriate measures can hardly be taken and we do not see that they have it beyond a new list of measures in that document that reflects the agreements reached between the PSOE and Citizens. Mr Homs has come to say this before: there is a lack of a growth model. There are many measures, but what is the consistency of all this? In our view, apart from the measures already mentioned towards the European Union, a broad consensus would be desirable to promote a change in the economic model based on innovation and added value, not on the wage devaluation as it is taking place, and for this it is necessary to reform the labour market in depth, to avoid fraud in young people's contracts, to increase the inter-professional minimum wage to a much higher level than the agreement contains, an adequate infrastructure policy and an impetus to market-oriented R & D and productive investment and not only linked to science and university. To reorganise autonomous competences, in addition to respecting the legal framework, the economic efficiency and effectiveness required in terms of industrial policy, tourism, territorial policy, etc. We are clear that the additional margin achieved by delaying the deficit target - which seems to be already made, in part, though it seems to us to be scarce - must be applied to spending policies that drive economic growth, not only in the short term, but to increase the potential for economic growth to a future in training, R & D & I and public investment. And that margin, Mr. candidate, must be applied in public administrations on the basis of the efforts made and the funding needs. But, of course, none escapes that, above all, the autonomous communities are the ones who are most financially in a position to have among their powers the policies closest to the citizens and which have a more direct effect. Yes, we must go and demand from the European Union a Juncker plan to stop being that ghost that is mentioned but never concrete - right, Mr President? This Juncker plan thing hasn't just landed. Looks like there's a lot of talk going on in all that. We must demand a more active role for the EIB. A stronger commitment to monetary union, to the banking union, to the Eurobonds or to the contributing public budget, a public budget more dedicated to expansion. Of course, all this is within a budgetary balance that must be enjoyed by any economy that is worth having a minimum future. By the way, we would like that budgetary balance in the case of Euskadi to be agreed between the two administrations within the Joint Commission, because it is often forgotten that in the case of the outside institutions we have a different scope which escapes the order and command of the State, which demands agreement between the two parties. And in that sense, Mr. candidate, we are calling for economic instruments that have not been given so far. To begin with, the State is failing to comply with its obligation to settle a quota closure since 2007 and the agreement of a future five-year law. We have been waiting since 2007; then they will say that the Basque institutions are responsible for these delays. We need an update of the concert with regulatory capacity in the field of VAT. We need to manage the economic system of social security, as our Statute of Autonomy says. A Basque country that could directly manage Social Security was a matter already claimed by the Socialist Party itself in its programme of government in the Basque elections after the adoption of the statute. That's how they understood it, just as we understand it today. It is you who have changed your position, if you have changed. What about all this? What about compliance with the statute? We've been denied one transfer after another. In fact, we have had to negotiate them - you know it well - and start them off by making up for them with parliamentary agreements over and over again. What about the development of future self-government? What model of state do you plan to push? Because talking about opening a commission to change the Constitution, and in six months... By the way, then, if you want, we also talk about the points you have included, because someone leaves me a little uneasy. Therefore, what model of state do you intend to push forward? How do you - or, as a candidate, if you think so - manage the demands of those who claim national recognition? Catalonia is not given a way out, even though it knows that there is a political problem. The document they have signed, in particular, speaks only of preventing, not resolving. Moreover, I think he has told you, to some extent, his own affiliation in Catalonia. There your affiliates have hardly answered the question you asked the socialist militants; I believe that only 30% of the membership has gone to vote. There is a political problem and it must be answered. You are giving up being one of the key actors in the Catalan process. Both must be aware that there is a political problem and that it must be addressed in this way. The best way to break Spain is not, Mr Sánchez, to let people be consulted and voted. The best way to break Spain is to make deaf ears to the fact that there is a problem of national membership that is increasingly being won over. By the way, before Mr Rivera mentioned and praised the Transition, he pointed out that even then the nationalist parties agreed and approved the Constitution. You are young and I would like to remind you: the PNV did not vote in favour of the Spanish Constitution. Therefore, we have always been outside the constitutional agreement. And look, in spite of that we've been complying with the law, but we're not in. If you want to integrate into Basque nationalism, think about other parameters because during all these years the Basque Nationalist Party and Basque nationalism as a whole has been out. Do you want me to stay out? You'll see. They are also mistaken if they believe that there is no political problem in Euskadi. Sooner or later we will have to look for formulas that update Basque self-government and make it possible for a community where national sentiment is different to find an institutional and national situation that satisfies all citizens, which today does not happen. You should contribute to this, you can contribute to it. In this next parliamentary term and, of course, in the next one, the Basque Parliament will have to make decisions. What do you have to say to this? What does the Socialist Party have to say? What does the Socialist Party think about the future of Basque self-government? How do they interpret the value of the first additional provision of the Constitution? Are we the Basques or not a nation? Yes or no, from the point of view of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? On the other hand, they must now put an end to the inveterate habit of resorting again and again not only to the laws of the Basque Parliament and the Navarro Parliament, but also to administrative acts which are often necessary to comply with agreements reached by both administrations - I now look at Mr Montoro -. For example, the judicial remedy against the public offer of employment of the Ertzaintza, which is all it seeks is to implement agreements of the Security Board regarding the maintenance of the number of personnel of this body, which we ask them to withdraw. By the way, ETA's excuse to maintain in Euskadi a number of State Security Forces and Corps personnel that do not conform to the powers they have assigned according to the statute has already been completed. Euskadi's Statute of Autonomy speaks of a clear division of security tasks in the Basque Country. That agreement must be complied with. What do you think of all this, Mr. Candidate? Will the Government of the State, on the other hand, recognise that Euskadi's competence in the field of education is based on the first additional provision of the Constitution and that, therefore, this fund of forality makes it different, in terms of its competence, from the rest of the autonomous communities? Will you and your Government respect the scope of self-government, which is greater than the rest of the state's municipalities, in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre? Are you going to let the citizen speak? And I am not asking you the right to decide Euskadi and Catalonia, which also; I am simply asking you that neighbours of enclaved municipalities can make your opinion heard and that you can vote and change, if your will is clear, from one autonomous community to another. Look at what more basic thing I'm asking you for: the disappearance of enclaves, if your neighbors want it; it doesn't break Spain. What will your Government do about peace and coexistence in the Basque Country? It may be a subject that some of your training colleagues consider amortized, but of course it is not. In the event that he became president of the government, what would he do in all this? What do you plan to do about infrastructure? I can tell you about the TAV, the delays on the Atlantic axis, one of which the European Union has chosen as a priority, but I can also tell you about more infrastructure. Mr. candidate, there are many areas on which we would like you to speak and which we have not heard at all in your speech. This doesn't move to give him any support. In view of this, Mr Sánchez, you will understand that our vote in no way can be positive. No effort has been made to bring together positions or the alliance it has forged gives us any confidence that we can have a fruitful dialogue in the future. His speech did not clear any of the unknowns and does not give any assurance or confidence that our concerns can be addressed. If someone thought that simply because of our bad experience in the past legislature with the people or our manifest interest in institutional stability and avoiding the electoral call would suffice for us to support them, it is that they do not know us yet. No, you cannot count on our support for the bases on which you have set it. I don't know what's going to happen in the future. The PSOE can remain an important player in a very important future agreement. I don't know if you will again be proposed by the king, to be a candidate, but the bases on which a possible agreement is based must be very different from those you present today. I would like to literally finish this speech as I finished the last of the so-called state of the nation, because it is entangled with the present, with the present moment. I was then addressing Mr. Rajoy saying: Our gaze is in the future and the future is not the absolute majority of PP. We trust that it will be an open future of negotiation and understanding in which, instead of hiding our heads from structural challenges, they will be faced with conviction and realism. A future which must necessarily include a second transition in the case of Euskadi and Catalonia. Mr. Candidate, we're waiting. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u100	Eskerrik asko, Esteban jauna. Mr Sánchez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Esteban, first of all, for the recommendations you have made to me for the negotiation and the search for agreements. It is true that in Euskadi there has never been absolute majority, there has always been a need to forge governability with dialogue, with agreement, and we know a great deal about that from the Basque nationalists and also from the Socialists. In recent times - also in past times - the best years of Euskadi and also of many towns and cities of Euskadi have come from the hand of understanding, collaboration and cooperation between the Socialist Party of Euskadi and the Basque Nationalist Party. We are doing so now in many parliaments, also in many municipalities, and I believe that the citizens of Euskadi are benefiting positively. I would like to ask you why not do so also at state level. I listened to Mr Urkullu a few days ago to say that the reforms that Spain and Euskadi need must be made through dialogue and agreement, and I agree with him. Secondly, Mr Lehendakari said that he would like the next Government of Spain to have a greater commitment to the self-government of Euskadi, and I do not close to that. And thirdly, I said that I did not want Mr Rajoy to remain the President of the Government, because it was - I said so in text - a wall in front of appeals for dialogue to resolve conflicts, and I cannot agree more. In fact, the President of the Congress, Mr López, was also Lehendakari of Euskadi and knows well the re-centralizing impulses when he governs the right in our country. So I do not ask you for a blank cheque, at all, by holding hands for the dialogue and in the talks I had with Mr Urkullu from the first minute I have asked you that we wanted to have fluid relations between the two administrations, that we wanted to resolve the outstanding conflicts over the Basque quota and also that we wanted to resolve the outstanding transfers as provided for in the Statute of Gernika, and that hand, Mr Esteban, is still stretched. We have to resolve - and you know that this is one of the issues raised by the Socialist Party of Euskadi - the specific situation in which the steel industry is sinking and which is going through ACB in Vizcaya, and also the cost differential of electricity, which you have been persistently demanding from the Government of Spain. That is the way, and I believe, Mr Esteban, that we can find many points in common from the dialogue, from the understanding, from the agreement, which precisely the Basque Socialist Party has forged with you to guarantee that stability of institutions in the Basque Country. With regard to the amendment of the Gernika Statute, good work is being done in Parliament, in the Commission, on the part of both parties and political formations in the Basque Country should decide what is the orientation of this amendment of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. With regard to the Basque agenda, Mr Esteban, we can talk about it. Many elements have emerged in the negotiations in which I believe we could understand each other, but do not disregard the agreement that we have signed and by which I am running for the Presidency of the Government. When we are talking about the Basque agenda, we are also talking about the common agenda, and there are 200 measures that I think are improving for the citizens, living where they live, also in Basque. Because talking, for example, about the agenda that we can push together the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party has to do with the shock plan to create employment and also with a thorough review of the labour reform approved by the People's Party during the past parliamentary term. I also understand that the Basque agenda will not be alien to the proposal that we have made to review the pharmaceutical co-sponsors, to eliminate the pharmaceutical co-sponsors raised by the People's Party during the last parliamentary term. Or, of course, the repeal of the Local Government Rationalization Act, or the revision, which is what is raised in the agreement, and which is not logically calling into question those elements that you mentioned in your intervention. The paralysis of the Lomce, the Pact against Gender Violence, which I know is an issue that you also care about very much, or equal pay for men and women. I want to say, Mr Esteban, that we have so many points in common on which we can find ourselves and of course on which we can also work. I have said this from the outset, this is an agreement open to other political formations, this is an agreement that does not raise any veto, that does not raise any red line, that does not raise any exclusion; on the contrary, it opens up to the support of other political formations. It also proposes to set the country in motion, to move it forward and to move out of the deadlock situation in which the People's Parliamentary Group and its inability to formulate any majority alternatives in the House. And I hold my hand, Mr Esteban, to the Basque Nationalist Party, I do not know if it will be today, tomorrow, past or when, but of course, we are also waiting for you. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u102	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Esteban jauna, the vulture gives hitza.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u103	Mr Sánchez, in view of your intervention, I am not going to extend much, of course. Hand laid out? So is ours. We're waiting, I told you. I don't think it's all over here, it's starting a different cycle; I've also said that I think recent experience can bring plenty of lessons, and from there, let's see what happens. It is true in that sense what you said: we have ruled many years together in Euskadi. He also said: Mr López also knows how the People's Party spent it on autonomy, and so on. Yes, yes, but Mr López was ruling with the People's Party; I am not surprised that he suffered and perhaps even doubly. But yes, it is true, we have worked together and we have reached agreements, and our hand is also stretched out. In addition, I admit that there are economic matters on which we can agree perfectly, we have done so in Euskadi too, we have reached tax agreements and there, of course, progress can be made. But you also have to understand that beyond all that, one - and of course the Basque Nationalist Party has it very clearly - is due to its voters and is due to the citizens of those constituencies where it is presented, and we therefore owe it to Euskadi. In this respect, we want to know exactly what you think about specific issues which are currently of concern to the Basque country in the industrial, infrastructure and social fields. For example, in social matters, you say to me: In eliminating the copayo you will agree. Obviously, the Basque Government made the appeal, etc. Yes, but in the agreement with Mr Rivera they expressly say that the role of the Inter-Territorial Health Council must be strengthened in order for it to coordinate further. Well, look, you decided with the People's Party, the PSOE and PP food - I don't know if that was what it was in 1996, I don't remember exactly - that education and health were passed on to all the autonomous communities, even if they hadn't asked for it. We already had it before; if you now see a need to coordinate, coordinate others but others respect our competences as we have agreed. I mean, how exactly do I have to interpret that paragraph? Do you understand me? We can make a lot of deals, but don't tell me there's no problem. He could also go into another subject, when he spoke, for example, of the Constitution, etc., in that document. They say: We will set the competences of the state and the autonomous communities. The powers of the autonomous communities are set out in the statutes of autonomy. The problem is that then in basic laws, basic decrees and rulings of the Constitutional Court what had been the political pact was watering out. Do not come here to interpret what are the competences of the state and of autonomy to reinterpret what is already an organic law because I have a certain prevention to that. On all these issues I would like to speak and, of course, if a Constitutional Commission is opened, I would like to know first what is the position of the Socialist Party, what is the model that the Socialist Party has in mind for the Spanish State, if any. Let's get past the federal thing. And I'm going to say more to you, whether we assume it or not - because this would be very important and I think it's not really that it interests the Basques, it's not that it interests the Catalans, but it's that it interests all Spanish citizens to give stability to a state structure for a long time - once there are two societies within the Spanish state that feel different and that, therefore, institutional relations have to be regulated differently and certain recognitions and certain winks have to be made? If we accept that - which is nothing more or less than anyone else, because in the rights and freedoms, those of Title I for the whole world, I will not put any glue nor the plan Ibarretxe put it, it said clearly and moreover who has to interpret it is the Constitutional Court - we will have taken a giant step. Is the Socialist Party thinking about that when it talks about the federal model? Are you really going to accept that there are two realities? Are you going to accept that we have to enter into a discussion of a different structure for Catalonia and for Euskadi? If that is true, it would be a good thing, but not for the citizens whom my political group represents, but for the citizens of the whole Spanish State. That's what I'd like to know too. I would like to say one thing to which you have referred: out of the law, nothing; within the law, everything. It seems right to me to hear it this way, but I remember it being said: with violence, nothing; without violence, everything. Within the law, everything is, but it is that the law can also be reformed, the law can be used to give facilities and to make certain calls. Moreover, the law can be used and adopted to clarify problems, including by strengthening the position of the State. In addition, I will use a socialist example. You brought Stéphane Dion, a Liberal Canadian leader against Quebec's vote, the father of the famous Clarity Law, to a Congress Hall of Deputies in the past legislature. It marks times, it marks demands, it marks qualified majorities, etc. I am not opposed to laws of clarity because I believe they could be even beneficial and could provide a solution. I was very glad when they brought Dion, although I couldn't attend because I had another engagement, because it seemed that some people saw that I was going against Quebec, but no. If the question is to clarify things, let the law make it possible, if there is a democratic majority obviously, that the ideas that we all have one day may or may not be possible, if we do not convince people. There are instruments. Are you convinced that something really needs to be done with the Spanish State? That would be good for everyone. Either way, we're still holding hands, I think we're opening a new cycle and we'll see what it gives us. I don't know what the rest of the parties intend to move, talk or argue, but we're willing to talk. I also tell you that it is very difficult for us to use all the limbs of the basket that you have used to present here with the agreement with Citizens. It would be better to use new limbs - if some serve it, perfect - to make a new basket and, if it can be, not as big as the previous one because, really, we're going to get better. With the basic lines and clear ideas and acting with loyalty - and in that, of course, you will always have, or any other party, if you come to an agreement, the full loyalty of the Basque Nationalist Party - perhaps you can come to something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u104	Eskerrik asko, Mr. Esteban. The candidate has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u105	Thank you, Mr Esteban, for your intervention and for your offer. I insist that we continue with the hand extended to the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party. I also say to you that the agreement we have signed with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is serious and that it seems not only a good step, but in line with what our country needs. We are making two hundred improvements in the area of democratic regeneration, of the social agenda, which share many Basques and Basques, issues that have to do with constitutional reform, and know what the Socialist Party's approach is. The Socialist Party wants a constitutional reform to move once and for all towards the federal state, to clarify the powers of the General Administration of the State and of the autonomous communities. We have always defended not only in this House, but also in the Euskadi Parliament those territories which have a clear vocation of self-government. I have said this from the rostrum and I say it again now: the transfers that have been pending since 2011 are an offer I make to the Basque Nationalist Party and to Euskadi. And the offer made by the Basque Nationalist Party in recent months, which has said yes to enter the debate on a constitutional reform, is also important. There, Mr Esteban, we will be able to talk about many things, also some of those you have raised in your speech. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u106	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. It is now the turn of the Joint Group. We all know that within the Joint Group there are seven political formations and the will of the Bureau, and certainly that of the House, is that they can all have their time to express their opinion. We will be generous with the total calculation of the Joint Group, but, just as we will be generous, we ask you to be rigorous with the time we have agreed for each of the groups. First of all, Mr Baldoví has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u107	[[Start your intervention in Valencian]] I want to start with a little satisfaction and a little personal relief and it is that, despite the tainted situation, there is one positive thing: Mr Rajoy, you are no longer the candidate. The PP has been unable to generate a single support in this House, and I congratulate myself. Second of all, I'm going to do a math. Don't tell us about the legitimacy of your party to make government. He's got it, but he's got nothing but others. And don't mention that it was the most voted party. I would like to remind you of how your dear friend, Rita Barberá, arrived at Valencia City Hall, that Rita Barberá, who this week has had a radical and anti-system behavior insulting the entire Valencian people, refusing to appear before the Valencian Parliament, which by the way she represents as a senator. Rita Barberá was second in the 1991 elections. He lost the election and agreed with the third party in votes. Thanks to them he spent twenty-four years in the mayor's office. Well, thanks to them and the anabolics who took their party in the form of illegal financing. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr Rajoy, lessons of legitimacy, none. The only legitimacy is the one that the ballot boxes have given, with very clear messages: the PP is already part of the past, the absolute majorities are gone, the people have been betting on a change of government and politics and it will be president or president who succeeds in agglutinating a majority. They are just as legitimate, but more representative 11.5 million votes of the PSOE, We can, In Comú, In Marea, Compromís and Unitat Popular, those that we sit on a table and represent 46% of the votes, than the 7.2 million of the PP. They are even more than the 10.8 million with which you ruled with absolute majority in 2011. They are just as legitimate, but they are more representative, we represent more citizens, we represent 161 seats and, from what I have heard, we could represent a few more. There are many more than their 122 deputies. Finally, Mr Sánchez, there are more than 161 seats and those that could be added than 130. [[Applauds]] We're a lot closer, and you know it. Mr. Esteban said so. I want to start my words to the candidate Mr Sánchez by recalling a few words from Woody Allen that perfectly fit the situation in which we are: I don't know the key to success, but I know that the key to failure is to try to please everyone. Indeed, Mr Sánchez, trying to please Citizens, Podemos, Compromís, En Comú, En Marea and Unitat Popular and in turn Citizens trying to please the People's Party and to attract it with the same document is a task that inevitably leads to failure. Trying to make the same document valid for such distant formations is a commendable purpose, but it can only produce frustration and melancholy. He insists that most leftists do not add up. What does not add up, of course, is 130. That is why I want to start with a proposal. I propose that the parties that we would add majority to the PSOE meet, draw up a consensus document to build that change, present it to the PSOE, and that Mr. Sánchez choose whether he wants to continue with his document with Citizens and crash again with Citizens or open a door to hope and real change. I am now going to list our objections to your document 'Agreement for a Reformist and Progress Government', which we obviously cannot subscribe to, because in this document they state that in a country with 21 % unemployment not only does not repeal the labour reform of the People's Party, which has failed to create more jobs - let us remember - but reduces dismissal, and above all it is intended that it is the same worker who pays part of his own redundancy - the reference to the Austrian backpack - that the worker pays eight days of his own redundancy, and that the compensation before the reform is not restored. In a country where wages have been reduced by 15% since the implementation of the Labour Reform of the People's Party, the wage supplement is introduced, which will further reduce wages. In a country where 8 out of 10 young people cannot be self-employed and where part-time and temporary contracts have stratospherically increased, the inter-professional minimum wage only rises by 1%, just over €6, a very low level of ambition. That document, which they solemnly signed, does not explicitly refer to the repeal of the Education Act, nor to the law on gallows or pension reform. In that document, the co-sponsorship is maintained. They say that 'it's not a barrier... to...' Tax measures remain unambitious, they continue to bet on optional maintenance of part of the maternity/paternity leave, knowing that inexorably it will end up being the woman who assumes it, not clearly eliminating the disputations and transforming themselves into provincial councils. A 3 % deficit is imposed in 2017, which will undoubtedly make it difficult to implement social policies. Finally, there is an unmistakable refocusing aroma that permeates the entire document. As far as the Valencian agenda is concerned, there is hardly anything, simply a vague and ambiguous reference to changing the funding model, but without concrete deadlines. As for the debt that has caused underfunding for years, nothing. Better yet, we know the opinion of your citizens' partners. By the way, Albert Rivera, in May 2015, in the middle of the election, said: The Valencians are not poorly financed. A few days ago, the Secretary General of the Citizens' Group said that he refuses to solve the problem of debt, a debt that, let us remember, we have not generated Valencians and Valencians; it has been generated by the State itself for not transferring the resources necessary to be able to provide essential services, and Mr Montoro knows very well. Here I have a document, which has been unanimously adopted in the Valencian Parliament, which calls for an immediate reform of the autonomous financing system, the recognition of the accumulated financing deficit, amounting to more than EUR 12 billion, and the definition and establishment of a mechanism for the compensation of these deficits, as well as the implementation by the State of investments in infrastructure. Here's Carolina Punset's signature, which doesn't quite match what you're saying these days. Finally, the Valencians and the Valencians demand institutional loyalty and respect for Valencian statutory development, so we ask you for an express commitment to withdraw the appeals brought against you by the Government of the State before the Constitutional Court. Mr Sánchez, if, as he repeated many times, he wanted change and dialogue, it was about these issues, which are the ones that separate us, which we had to talk about. Mr. Sánchez, if you want change and dialogue, you can't come here with a closed agreement with Citizens and tell us: Either this or Rajoy. He can't; he shouldn't. He must not hold us responsible for having only 130 votes today and tomorrow he will follow a government of the People's Party in office. You know Compromís wants the change. Honestly, we want change; we want to agree with you. We have worked here to make that happen; we sit with you first and rise last. We have done so in the Valencian Government, where we share with you and with the support of Podemos a government that works reasonably well, and we can do so here. Mr. President, I'll take it off thirty seconds later, don't worry. It is not true that the majority of leftists do not add up; what does not add up, I repeat, is 130 votes. You know, and Mr Esteban has just announced it, that there are more votes on another path, that there is a real possibility of change, of government, of investiture. I have ended, because I have run out of time, with a plea to all, especially those who have spoken this morning rather than those who have done so this afternoon. I think it would be good if we lowered the tone of our speeches to facilitate a future change. I conclude by recalling a song by Lluís Llach of 1978, in the middle of the Transition, today that the Transition has been invoked so much in this House. The song said, "That's not it, fellas. It's not that, fellas. I'll see you Monday. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Garzón has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all; good afternoon, Mr. Sánchez. I rise to the rostrum, after the previous legislature and, since everyone has quoted someone, I think it is appropriate to start with a quote from Antonio Gramsci, who, even if he is a manida, is useful for this occasion, which said that we must see politics from the pessimism of reason and the optimism of the will, and I explain myself. From the pessimism of reason, because one of the advantages of talking about the latter is being able to listen to all the previous ones. That pessimism leads us to understand that if the Socialist Party has come here today without numbers, this has become an act of electoral campaign, or, rather, of pre-election campaign. When there are no numbers, what there is is the backdrop of a scenario of early elections, which is bad news. However, we must see politics from the optimism of the will, because I believe that despite all that there are limbs to try an agreement on left bases and an agreement that is based on that table at four. In addition, we have listened to other political groups and it seems quite obvious that this is the easiest way forward. We need a new country, a new country with left principles and values, a feminist country, an ecological country, and we can and must try. We need to reflect on what happens outside these walls, because outside these walls there is a state of social emergency: unemployment grows, misery grows, precariousness grows and inequality grows ultimately. We see social eateries all over our cities, people starving in the middle of the 21st century, people losing their homes, that soil that many of those who were here in the previous legislature had not trampled on under any circumstances, and I think that should motivate us to agree. We made mobilizations, we were in the squares, we were in the general strikes, we occupied banking headquarters, we were surrounding the Congress. We called for another way of doing politics to solve the real problems of citizenship. In that sense, we were building Popular Unity precisely because we believed that we had to defend ourselves from what the Government did not defend us. That's what we were doing. We believe that this is an opportunity to change things and that is why we say that this is an opportunity and not a complexity. However, the Socialist Party has decided, and above all it has raised something deceptive, a false dilemma, Mr Sánchez. He came and said, "There's Rajoy or Rivera. And that's not true, because he knows there are other options. Rajoy's out; all right, great. But Rivera and you, Citizens and Socialist Party, total 130 votes; at the table where we were gathered - with much difficulty, that is, for your constitution - there was a minimum of 161 votes and it generates enough sympathy for you, Pedro Sánchez, to be president, but with a social agenda and an economic agenda of the left. What enshrines the Citizens' agreement with the Socialist Party is nothing more than continuity with the economic policies that have been in place in recent decades, because there is a thread that goes from Rodrigo Rato to Mr Montoro, but passes through Mr Solbes and Elena Salgado and the Socialist Party governments. That thread is the one that is kept in that document and that Mr Rivera admits that it exists because he is trying to attract that agreement to the People's Party. Therefore, we cannot understand how we are being tried to sell that it is possible to have a left-wing social agenda with a right-wing political-economic agenda. We think it's incompatible and as long as that doesn't change it can't change the no more rotundo. That economic agreement does not call into question elements that have to do with the power structures of this country, because, let us make it clear, this morning the smile was that of Mr Rajoy - which was visible in this House - but it was also the smile of the oligarchies that are outside this House and that were nevertheless happy and satisfied with the possibility that this agreement would occupy the centre of attention, rather than an alternative agreement that would change once and for all the power structures of this country; power structures that mean that the oligarchy of Francoism remained the oligarchy during democracy and that it is ultimately the one that dominates and actually commands in our country because, unfortunately, in our country, those who do not stand for elections and who have an effective capacity to bend the institutions and democracy itself and to turn this House into a mere shadow theatre. If we don't solve that, everything else will be simple and plain advertising or political marquetin, and we don't want that, we want to solve people's problems. That is why we believe that in order to implement social elements that the Socialist Party defends, it is necessary to have coherence and coherence in a left-wing economic programme, an economic programme that questions, for example, Bankia's private property. The People's Party wants to privatize Bankia. What will the Socialist Party do if it arrives at the investiture? What is going to happen to the electricity system, that electricity system that fosters inequalities, that fosters energy poverty, a system that achieves that in the middle of a crisis of absolute precariousness in wages there has been allowed to be delegated advisers who charge up to 40,000 euros a day or bank managers who charge more than 4,000 euros a day? These circumstances have to do with power structures. And it is that, Mr Sánchez, if the power structures are not changed, the productive model cannot be changed nor can we adapt our country and our economic and political reality to the needs of our planet. It's impossible, you'll stay in a mere desideratum. And we believe that we must seize the opportunity. You ask us to do almost an act of faith, which we believe is possible that compatibility between the right-wing economy and the social agenda of the left, tells us not to pay attention to what Mr Rivera sincerely says or looks like sincerity, also tells us not to listen to the legitimate criticisms and I also believe that the unions - such as, for example, Workers' Committees - make the citizens' agreement with the Socialist Party. Ultimately, we believe that we cannot fail to listen, that we cannot fail to be consistent. Social policy must therefore be pursued with a left-wing economy. We believe, Mr Sánchez, that it is not just a matter of repealing article 315.3 of the Criminal Code on the right to strike, because of course it must be repealed. Of course, we agree, because more than 300 trade unionists who are in court for defending the rights of everyone cannot be put in jail, but we believe that it is far more important that there should be no general strikes because labour law has been boosted, and that labour agreement is going to push more people into the general strike. True, don't put them in jail, but they're going to have to keep protesting on strikes, and that's what it can't be. [[Applauds]] We are optimistic from the United Left-Popular Unity. We think it's possible, that there are numbers, that can be done. We've never said it's easy. We've managed to put four games on a table. We have taken sixty-three days, hence the difficulty, but it has been achieved. What is happening is that we have always said that we would vote on the full agenda, on the global vision, and this global vision is impossible to approve because it is incoherent, because it is economically impossible to carry out the social agenda if liberal postulates are accepted. I sincerely believe - and I do not want to get into other people's homes - that at this moment we need a social democracy committed to the classic postulates of social democracy itself, not social liberalism, because we need to turn this European Union around, but not with mere rhetoric, but with acts, with correlation of forces, establishing alliances with Portugal, with Greece, denouncing infamous treaties of the European Union, denouncing the role of the European Central Bank and President Mario Draghi, ultimately denouncing the policy that generates these problems on the street, which is what we should be talking about and not the hypothetical situation of early elections. We come from a tradition of the left - we are heirs and followers of it - of a tradition of social struggle. We followed Marcelino Camacho's postulate that the right to strike was achieved by strikes, because we know that today's rights are yesterday's struggles and that if we don't fight today we won't have a right tomorrow. That is why we are going to continue to fight, and we are fighting here, in this Chamber, in the street, in the mobilizations, but we are always fighting from coherence. That is why we cannot allow him to try to bring us back to that false dilemma. It's a lie, it's a lie - and you know it - that this is an election between Albert Rivera and Mariano Rajoy. This is not a choice between them. What we ask of you is that you be president, but following that Latin adage that said fortune smiles at the audacity. And we ask you, Secretary General of the Socialist Party, to be bold, something that is not going to be easy, but here we are going to find you and you are going to find us, because we do not want a government of the main corrupt party of the European Union, which is the People's Party, because we want to solve people's problems, but for that we need, as you well know, their participation, but with the left, learning from all past mistakes, learning from everything we can bring to the future and understanding that the context is different. There will be no more bipartisanship. There are 5 million Socialist Party votes, 3 million Podemos, 2 million confluences and 1 million United Left-Popular Unity. The left is like this; it's rich, it's diverse.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u110	Mr. Garzón, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u111	From there, we can build it. Let's try, let's see each other next week. Let us build from those 161 seats and succeed in attracting more parties. Of course on that path you will find us; on the path of Liberalism of Citizens or of the People's Party we have to say absolutely no. Cheers and Republic! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u112	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. Beitialarrangement andrea, zurea da hitza. It's a minute zazpi.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u113	Mila esker, president jauna. Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone. I would like to begin with the memory of the five workers who killed in the events of 3 March 1976, events which, forty years later, remain a clear example of the impunity with which the State acted, as well as of solidarity, resistance and the workers' struggle, which are essential in order to achieve many of the social and labour rights achieved in recent decades and which previous governments and future proposals are committed to continuing to take away from us. [[Applauds]] And we are glad that there are other groups that mention it and that we have gone beyond past times in which the acts that reminded us of these events were repressed. For Euskal Herria Bildu, this parliamentary term that does not end up is an opportunity that we should not let go of for, listened to and correctly interpreted the ballot boxes, work tirelessly for change, for a new time that leaves behind denial, imposition, precariousness, inequality, cuts, austerity and debt payment as the main objective and opens a window to social justice, rights, the decision-making capacity of citizens. Although throughout this debate we hear from the spokesmen of the different groups that the citizenry calls for changes, the approaches that accompany these words take us away from a real change on the part of the candidate, they offer us a mere cleaning of face that in the background and at the end is nothing more than the same. From Euskal Herria Bildu we want to say it loud and clear. For any change in the Spanish State to be real is essential: one, the recognition of the right to decide of the Basque people, as well as of the rest of the peoples of the State and the consequent respect for what they decide. Two, in the area of peace and normalization, it is necessary to put an end to emergency measures, to change prison policy and to take decisive steps in favour of the most basic rights for all. And three, the immediate restitution of the basic social and labour rights that have been taken from all citizens in recent years. These are the three major issues on which Euskal Herria Bildu will base his political work, and will do so from the firm commitment in defending what the majority of Basque citizens have expressed with their vote, and will do so with a country view, beyond their own interests, shaping a common agenda with other formations that they bet for it; an agenda that responds to the needs and demands of the citizenship to which we represent. This goes so far as to ensure respect for the decisions that social and political majorities have taken both in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Nafarroa, for which, as we have done with the joint initiative recently presented in this House, we call for the withdrawal of the remedies lodged against seventeen Navarra laws and rules, as well as respect for other decisions that can be taken in the future. The majority of citizens have been clearly expressed on 20 December. He wants to be the subject of decision, the protagonist of the future. He wants to make his decisions, all of them. And in order for this to be possible, we need the transfer and the tools to be able to develop our competences in matters as crucial as social security, such as employment policies, such as taxation, education, consultation or prison policy. At the same time, however, it is urgent to repeal laws that violate basic rights and take us away from a future based on social justice, such as labour reform, pension reform, pharmaceutical co-payment or the self-consumption decree, to name a few. Just as it is necessary to annul laws that deprive us of the much-needed civil and political freedoms, such as the law on gags, the abortion law, the permanent prison that can be reviewed or the Aliens Act. It is of such magnitude the need for change and so empty of it that we are offered that there is no room for doubt. What they are trying to sell us as change, even as a progressive, is nothing more than a new attempt at fraud, a new attempt to change nothing substantial. Convinced of this, we will make it clear to you: Do not count on us. The only thing that changes is his speech in a sterile attempt to sell us continuity as an advance, when it is nothing more than a black hole for rights, for prosperity, for the necessary improvement in the living conditions of those who are experiencing it, since the payment of debt or deficit targets have become the most important, even at the cost of leaving thousands and thousands of people in poverty. Where are the commitments with the repeal of labour reform? Not only does he forget his proposals, the promises he has made in recent times, but he also tries to make us believe that the text of the agreement with Citizens reflects what is not written, when neither the indefinite contracts are going to provide greater security for the working class or many other issues. [[I don't have much time left.]] What about the pensioners, whom you forget, will continue to receive unworthy pensions; or about the minimum wage earners, who, however high a 1% increase is, will continue to suffer the most extreme misery. And what about this when we talk about women. I would almost need all of my intervention to describe the situation we women are in. Because I have to recognize what changes have been made in makeup, to sell us something that doesn't have a pass. They have changed the word abrogation - today has said infinity of times - by paralysis, by study; it is not the same; we do not need to paralyze the Lomce or the law gag, we need to repeal it. But what are we going to expect from a Socialist Party that with fracking has defended us first - Patxi López with helmet and everything in a photo that will pass to history - the excellence of the hydraulic fracture to then vote with us and the People's Party in Vitoria to ban it and now talk about moratorium? You defend all possible positions and all possible positions do not defend the same, and therefore you cannot ask us to communicate with all of them. Fracking is a mere illustrative example of much more. In the face of the demands of Basque citizenship, Galician or Catalan - in this it is only that they speak clearly - they tell us that no and there they are rotundos. The same answer, even though we know that the unity of Spain which they seek to defend at the cost of denying what is the essence of democracy, which is respect for the decision of the opinion of the citizenry, makes waters. A Spain plunged into a crisis of many kinds, with its bases eaten by corruption that is part of the system and that is spreading without limit. - I'm finishing up. They try to cling to the so-called national sovereignty as a table of salvation in the face of a more than safe shipwreck, because the shroud designed with sands noise in 1978 no longer holds and it is time to open up channels to a true democratic system. More and more voices are defending the right to decide. That majority must be extended, and as long as that happens we will continue to work so that the people we represent can go in the direction of their present and their future in Euskalerria and to make the decisions of Basque citizens stand up to the government that conforms in Madrid - if ever it comes to form -. That's our goal. Therefore, do not count on our vote to continue denying us our status as sovereign people, to condemn people to poverty, to defend the interests of a few privileged and powerful; in short, to continue as hitherto. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia. Mr Alli's turn, for seven minutes too.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sánchez, I will not deny you your political audacity for two things: first, to activate the investiture process that we started yesterday and, second, to secure the internal leadership of your party; boldness, as I said, for your personal interest but at this time something more is required for the general interest of Spain. You, Mr Sánchez, have deprived the majority force of this House of even sitting down and talking about the necessary solutions and structural reforms in this country and at the moment. This closes the door to a scenario, which supports the Navarro People's Union, which is the consensus of the constitutionalist forces that seek to generate employment, people-centred policies, institutional, social, political, economic stability, the rights of people above the territories, the unity of constitutional Spain. To come to this investiture, Mr Sánchez, you have signed an agreement with the Citizens Group, an agreement of intentions knowing of your lack of support for setting up a government, and loaded with contradictions, for example, labor reform. Citizens said it is a simple modification and you have spoken of an absolute repeal of that labour reform. An agreement that presents a battery of constitutional reforms where the participation of the People's Party is necessary, which you reject. It is an agreement between the Socialist Party and Citizens which is also based on the centralization of competences and moves away from the current model of autonomous state and the self-government of Navarre and its differentiated Foral Regime. Ladies and gentlemen, Union del Pueblo Navarro is the political party of the social majority of Navarra that includes people who believe in individual freedoms, in equal opportunities within the framework of coexistence that is Spain, which is Europe as an area of progress and prosperity. Unión del Pueblo Navarro is a firm defender of the historical rights protected by the Spanish Constitution, of self-government, of Navarra's ability to manage and collect its own taxes,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u116	A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. ... of the economic-financial relationship through the Economic Concert, which is a singularity of the Navarro Fuero, based on two great principles: the constitutional loyalty and solidarity of all the peoples of Navarra with the peoples of Spain. Because it's pact and UPN is pact. Union del Pueblo Navarro is the firm defender of the abolition of the fourth transitional provision of the Spanish Constitution, which provides, ladies and gentlemen, for the mechanism for the annexation of Navarra to Euskadi. None of this, which is so important not only to Navarre, but to all Spaniards, is reflected in the agreement signed by you and the Citizens' Group. Ladies and gentlemen, the Navarro People's Union is essentially a party that believes in the pact. So, Mr Sánchez, that with the agreements between the Socialist Party of Navarre and the Navarro People's Union in the last twenty-four years a society has been achieved to this day - then I will say why I say to this day - Navarre's welfare, with a magnificent universal health system, with the best indicators in relation to the freedom of parents to choose what education they want for their children, a quality education. And also in the support in Navarre for families, words that have not been repeated at all in this House today and which is so important to this country. I invite you, Mr Sánchez, that these agreements of the left and the centre-right in Navarre over the last 24 years, which have produced such good results for Navarre, will move to this House for the good of Spain. Because the opposite, Mr Sánchez, will be to re-edit at national level the formula of the current Government of Navarre that resulted from the last elections in May. A government that is also self-proclaimed for change and progressive, composed of anarchist, radical, independenceist forces and with an obsession, ladies and gentlemen: the construction of the independent Basque State to which the Navarro People's Union opposes and rejects frontally. It is a government that puts the identity above the real interests of all the shipwrecks and, therefore, of the Spaniards and to which, after its first days of management the society Navarra, has turned its back in the past general elections and democratically denied the presence of PNV Geroa Bai and Bildu in this House. That is why I am surprised that both the speakers of PNV and Bildu in Euskadi speak in the name of Navarra. Let us avoid, Mr Sánchez, re-editing that scenario in the Government of Spain. Let us safeguard the system of freedoms that we have enjoyed since the first transition, the first transition, constitutional unity and the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, the political representatives we are here today have many challenges, great challenges. As a matter of priority, the role of politics, of politicians, as a service to society, to put solutions today and to future generations of Spain. In short, to achieve a country within the framework of coexistence. There are not many Spains, gentlemen of Podemos, there is one Spain in which we all belong, in which we all belong; also in defense of individual freedoms against any terrorist threat. Today she is the jihadist, as ETA's murderous violence was years ago. And there UPN will always be next to the victims and their families, those people who gave their lives to safeguard our rights and freedoms. The final account of this macabre part of the recent history of Spain, especially in Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community, will be written when the political parties - today there are some of them represented - condemn the violence of ETA and assume, moreover, that it has been defeated by the rule of law. Mr. Iglesias, in Spain there are no prisoners for your ideas, that does happen in Venezuela. [[Applauds]] In a country that cares for and deals with the most vulnerable, persons with disabilities, dependent persons, women victims of gender-based violence and their minors, people in social exclusion, immigrants and refugees. Let's think about people. From this rostrum, and finally, I would like to appeal to the parties that we believe in the Spanish Constitution to reach an agreement of consensus, of moderation, for the sake of this country. This is our opportunity, this is our obligation, this is our responsibility. I conclude by announcing that our vote will be against this investiture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u118	Thank you, Mr. Alli. Mr Martinez has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u119	Mr President, I have the honour to speak from this rostrum, continuing the privileged leadership that my colleague Enrique Álvarez Sostres inaugurated four years ago. And like him, I am going to do it on behalf of Asturias representing Forum, a party that unites its deepest civic roots in the commitment to your country, convinced that it is the right way to enlarge and advance the nation to which we are an indissoluble part, because not in vain our founding motto: More Asturias, better Spain, responds faithfully to our idea. Courtesy invites me to greet candidate Pedro Sánchez, who today submits to the investiture, but I find it impossible to add a congratulations for four reasons. The first is that it does not come today as a winner of the general elections, but with the debacle at the expense of the worst defeat of the PSOE. Since December 20, he has been deceiving his constituents by flagrantly failing to keep his promises about pacts. He does not have enough majority to succeed in his candidacy, despite the show with Ciutadans. It cannot offer reformism or progress because, even if it was invested last morning, re-editing the Oviedo City Hall model, governing would thus ensure a black present to the Spaniards, although if it would guarantee a splendid future to Pedro Sánchez, thanks to the pension as former president. I would very much like to hear that, among the measures of political regeneration, your partners require you to renounce that privilege if you do not give a minimum period of exercise legitimacy in office for your lifetime enjoyment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Asturians are already ahead of the stage presented here today as unprecedented, because civil society rebelled in 2011 against the old distribution of the political map that led the Principality towards the deepest decline. That's why the Forum seed came up and quickly took root. Curiously, then, the PSOE did promote in Asturias the great coalition with the PP, so now, by rejecting it for Spain, we have to agree that it was only pursuing in Asturias the unreasonable end of evicting the winning political force of the elections to recover the government in 2012 and that everything would be the same again; the bad thing is that everything turned out to be even worse. Today the Asturians have stagnated our population, which is the oldest in Europe. The evolution of our GDP shows the greatest divergence with the national average, as does the reduction in unemployment. In employment we show the lowest working population rate, 10 points less than the Spanish average. The causes are very profound: when the national political forces alternate in the Government of Spain, whether federalist or autonomous, and derive their behavior towards branching as a degeneration of the representative mandate of the citizens, it reaches the extreme of Asturias. The coalition agreement signed by the Forum with the People's Party in this legislature is transparent, it provides a remedy against branchism, which has caused us so much political damage since 2004, and guarantees as a counterpart our vote to the candidacy of Mr Rajoy as president, for a national government program that gives answers to the main causes of the evils of Asturias, that is, a new autonomous financing that responds to the constitutional mandate of equality and solidarity between Spaniards and territories and the allocation of the investments of the State with criteria of equity between autonomous communities; infrastructures that conclude the highway of the South West, the circumvalation of Oviedo, the road access to the ports of the Musel, Avilés and Zalia. Also, let the European AVE reach Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés, that great project of the Aznar government that the government of his companion Zapatero has taken away from us, by perpetrating in the background a term station in León. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u121	Transports that provide Asturias with new air links and restore a motorway to the sea with France. An industry, mining and energy with financial instruments for thermals to apply the technology that meets the European objective of clean coal, with transparent incentives to consume the autochthonous coal in them and we will also comply with the judgment on mining funds. A farm that ensures the competitiveness of milk and meat cows through CAP aid allocated to disadvantaged and mountain areas. A fishery that reassigns to the artisanal fleets their catch quotas due to the importance of the coasts and the number of vessels. All this you, Mr Sánchez, and your investiture partner, ignore in your raquitic and sectarian pact, pompously entitled program that, like your speech, omits the chapters on the causes of the decline of Asturias and discards the solutions that demand the great national problems that affect us. In conclusion, Mr President. I reject your investiture, Mr Sánchez, because in Forum we seek to put an end to the decline of Asturias and we do not want Spain to return to the path of socialism, to the times of Zapatero's economic black hole, the fall of growth, the triggered and crazy debt, the destruction of employment and the loss of millions of jobs and the uncertainty about Spain's role in Europe and the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u122	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas, also for five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in these months since the elections, the activity that should have taken place in this Chamber has moved unusually to the corridors, to the meeting rooms of this Congress and to television, above all to television. These are new times, yes, where the image and the story have often been imposed on the bottom of the matter, which was nothing more or less than something as vital to this country and its people as it is to form government. But also, fortunately, times are being presided over by the need to understand us as an inescapable mandate of the citizens who voted for us. The democracy we celebrate is full of examples of what it is necessary to agree to live together. From the gestation of the transition until a while ago, we were able to reach great agreements, and that is precisely the lesson that the great parties had forgotten and that we have learned - if I may say so - in these days. Understanding, coexistence, which are the outstanding subjects of our society, have once again been in the debate and mark the political agenda. That is why we appreciate the pact that you, representatives of the PSOE and Citizens have reached, because the Canary Islands have always been accustomed to reaching agreements and we know that to compromise sometimes is to give in, but always is to win. However, being consistent, we cannot vote in favour of this investiture today, because there is not going to be something that we understand is important for us to give a yes, and it is that the necessary majority has not been achieved to ensure that this legislature has the minimum stability and that there is a government. That obliges us all, but especially you, Mr Sánchez, who have a mandate to do so, to continue negotiating, to continue talking so that a broader agreement, to which the nationalists can join, is possible. First it was the economic crisis, then the civil unrest came and now the inability to reach a political agreement is added. Three setbacks that undermine the hope of recovering everything we've lost in the last decade. We have 48 hours to correct the course, starting with respect for the will expressed by the citizens, taking responsibility for us as Members and being more flexible and generous in the search for common points. My party, which represents an inclusive, progressive and solidarity nationalism with the rest of the peoples that make up the State, is also obliged to move the needs of a territory that can no longer be further removed from the minds and hearts of those who can decide its future. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u124	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u125	With the firm intention that these new times that are announced will also be for the Canary Islands, which can no longer wait for its time, this is the time, this is the time of the Canary Islands. It is time to have a more supportive funding system that would support essential services: health, education, dependency. It is time to approve the economic aspects of the economic and fiscal regime that is vital for the Canary Islands. It is time for the State to invest in the Canary Islands as well as in the rest of the autonomous communities, and to recover the agreements on coasts, roads, hydraulic works, educational infrastructure and tourist infrastructure to create employment, but also to improve the strategic sectors of our archipelago. It is time to address a reform of the Constitution that is an impetus for a deep political regeneration, with a guarantee of basic rights, social policies and freedoms; that implies a recognition of the autonomous State with higher levels of self-government. As far as the Canary Islands is concerned, let us take up our state of ultra-perificity, as Europe already recognizes, and, on the other hand, the shielding of the economic and fiscal regime, our furthest. It is time to create employment, that the employment plans of the Canary Islands should be reactivated as a matter of urgency. It is time to reduce the costs of transporting passengers and goods because it is a right of all canaries. It is time for our sea and our field to feed with dignity to those who do it and work every day, and that is why we demand the Posei aid and a fair share of bluefin tuna. It is already time to equate non-contributory pensions with the minimum wage. It is time for it to be understood that there is an island, unique and remote territory that requires only to be equated with the rest of the territories that make up this plural State. Let me finish with a precious verse from the poet Pedro Lezcano: I learned since then / that my homeland was female and was wide / and that in his belly, filled with future, / there was hope. Canary Islands, which has so much hope, must not wait any longer. I trust that among all, with this will of change, of understanding, we will finally get this to be the time of the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. I also have the floor for five minutes, and finally Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. candidate, we know that the elections of 20 December gave a complex and, however, clear message from the citizens. They said: the above, no; we want a political change. That's what the message said. The election result has cast a more voted electoral force that has a characteristic, which has lost 63 deputies, which is hardly compatible with pointing out that the elections have been won. It is the most voted force, but the elections have not been won. There is something exotic going on in this whole process and in this debate: that it is precisely not defending its investiture the candidate of the most voted force, and it is not because it did not want, did not want on two occasions. Until this one who speaks to you, unsuspected of supporting the policies of the People's Party and those of Mr Rajoy, he proposed to the Head of State on two occasions that we understood that it should be Mr Rajoy who should defend here, in this House, his investiture for strictly democratic reasons, which, of course, is not ideological. We know that whoever did what he did, who damaged parliamentarianism, who applied a spectacular roller is isolated on his own merits. There is no isolation of the People's Party in this House because we have conspired, it is that you have won it at once over four years, as you know well. We understand why Mr Rajoy did not want to submit to the investiture. You know why? Because he would have had to come here to say what he said today: that he maintains the same policies he maintained for four years, which have caused tremendous damage in the Spanish state to the social majority, no doubt, of any kind. That is why - it is understood - it is impossible to reach the House's agreement. To help the necessary political change, New Canarias signed an agreement with the Socialist Party, an electoral agreement with a program, because we understood that to work for political change it was necessary to make such a bet and not to disperse forces. That is why we argued that it was necessary to put an end to the policies that have fostered inequality and poverty, which have caused an unprecedented democratic involution over the previous four years, with damage to the Canary Islands as never before in the recent Spanish democratic history. A political change that was based on two agendas, as the candidate knows very well: an agenda of a state nature in which we raised the need to reform the Constitution towards a federal model of the State, the need to defend public services, to defend the fight against corruption and, ultimately, to defend a new economic model towards political change and the defence of the interests of the majority. And a very powerful canary agenda. By the way, from the point of view of the change of the Constitution, the Canary Islands plays a lot: it plays the recognition of its ultraperipheral status that respects the European Union, but not the Government of Spain, as happened in the previous four years. [[Denials of the Minister of Finance and Public Administration in office, Montoro Romero]] Yes, Mr. Montoro, of course. This agreement has to be in the Spanish Constitution. It must be recognized in the Spanish Constitution that the REF must be respected. The Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands is not a whim, it is precisely the instrument with which our land has to be treated with justice, to be on an equal footing with the average of the communities of the State - here no one is defending privileges - and it is necessary - as we have proposed in our agreement - to defend a just autonomous financing. A community with an unemployment rate of 7 points higher than the average of the state cannot be allowed to be detracted more than 600 million euros a year, as is well known, aimed at defending fundamental public services. There is another very interesting issue: the need to address the reform of the Spanish electoral system. If this is necessary in the state, I don't even tell you in the Canary Islands. What an opportunity to reform the most unjust and undemocratic electoral system of the Spanish State and, I dare say, of all the countries on the planet where there are democratic models of state. The New Canarias party, in this process, has felt very comfortable with the agreement we signed, quite comfortable with the agreement presented by the Socialist Party, somewhat less comfortable with the agreement with Citizens, but do you know what I'm saying? That this is not about being comfortable, it is about working for political change. Comfort is the opposite of political change. Being satisfied with oneself is just the opposite of what is needed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u129	Mr. candidate, we applauded the courage you have shown to take on a difficult challenge, under difficult conditions, to submit to this investiture. We confirm here the commitment made by New Canarias, with you and your party, to defend your investiture, to support your investiture, which is what we are going to do, because we believe that you have done the work that needs to be done, however difficult it is. We believe that your proposal, apart from the outcome of the votes that will take place today or next Friday, has an enormous virtue: it creates an opportunity for the political forces that want to work for change to find consensus on an initial proposal that is a good element of debate - we believe in New Canarias - and that is the merit of your work and the merit that we recognize here today. I will tell you one thing: for the purpose of finding an alternative government to which the People's Party represented, any effort is little, and someone who in the Canary Islands has signed agreements between the Socialist Party, Podemos and New Canarias...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u130	Mr Quevedo, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u131	I'm done, Mr. President. As I said, for someone who has signed agreements in the Canary Islands to guarantee the governance of such important institutions as the City of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria or the Cabildo de Gran Canaria, which would be unacceptable, the real red line do you know what it is? Let the elections be repeated because we have not been able to live up to and respond to the citizens' mandate. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u132	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Wait a minute, Mr. Sanchez. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we are doing very well in the management and use of time, and that is why the Bureau with some groups has promoted a conversation among all to see if it is possible to move ahead with the voting on the scheduled timetable, and it seems that there is unanimity among all groups so that we can move forward from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. If there is no one who opposes this decision, we will have the vote at seven. [[Pause]] Thank you very much. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group. I will answer for the order of speeches of the Joint Group, and I will start with your honor Mr Baldoví. I remember that one of the first speeches made by Mr Baldoví at the beginning of the negotiations we had in the Socialist Party with Compromís was to say that the only red line the Parliamentary Compromís Group had was that the People's Party did not continue to govern Spain, and that is the offer we are making, Mr Baldoví: that the People's Party does not continue to govern Spain and that Mr Rajoy is not the President of the Government. To this end, you again insist that a left-wing government is possible. I said it yesterday in my speech and I repeat it again today: unfortunately a left-wing government is not possible, because the left does not add a majority in this House. We add 161 Members who we sat down a few days ago, on the initiative of the United People's Left Unity, to try to find common ground. What I do add, Mr Baldoví, is precisely the desire for change, the illusion of change, and that is what I bring here in this agreement with Citizens, which is an agreement, I insist, open to the rest of political formations. Look, Mr Baldoví, we can talk about issues on which we do not agree, issues that may not be included in the agreement with Citizens but on which you and I can agree; I pledge to bring them here, to this Congress, to push them forward and to try to convince the parliamentary majority so that they can be possible. But neither do you say, Mr Baldoví, that in the agreement with Citizens there are no elements with which you and your parliamentary group identify themselves perfectly, because you see, when you speak of the Mordaza Law, in the agreement you are saying that all those articles that have been appealed to the Constitutional Court will be repealed, among others, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Article 19.2, Article 20.2, Article 36.2, Article 36.3, Article 37.1, Article 30.3, in short, Mr Baldoví, there is a de facto derogation in the Law on Citizen Security from all that we have called the Mordaza Law. Mr Baldoví, I have heard Mrs Oltra talk about the Botanical Pact, and you too have heard about the Botanical Pact. I have had the opportunity to read the Botanical Pact and study it. Look, the Botanical Agreement says things, for example in the chapter on rescuing citizens, like we have to guarantee the right to housing. In the agreement that we have signed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens Group, we propose anti-discharge measures, for example, that those individuals or families in circumstances of insolvency that arise, that is, outside their economic decisions, should be guaranteed a social rent. You raise a guaranteed income of citizenship in that agreement, and in this agreement, Your Honor, what we are proposing is a minimum living income for the 250,000 households that right now have no income to bring home. You raise in that agreement, in the Botanical Agreement, the right to light, water and gas, and in this agreement we are talking about the right to water as a right, as a good, and we are talking about adopting a law to combat energy poverty. We are talking about child poverty and combating it, and we are talking about increasing child benefits and extending their duration. We are talking about the unit, I have already referred to previous interventions. We are talking about gender-based violence, yesterday I made an explicit defense in my intervention in the agreement of everything that has to do with the social, political and institutional pact in the fight against gender-based violence. We are talking about transparency and we are recognizing in this agreement, Your Honor, that we need to amend and make further progress in the Transparency Act adopted by the Government in office, and also to ensure the independence of that Transparency Council, which is currently chaired by a person related to the People's Party and the Government in office. There is talk of citizen participation. I do not think it is better to encourage citizen participation than to reduce the popular legislative initiative to 250,000 signatures. [[Rumors]] We are talking about the reform of the Electoral Law. [[Rumors]] That's coming...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u134	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u135	...included in the agreement that we have signed and that I bring to your assessment and consideration. We are talking about the fight against corruption and clientelism, Mr Baldoví, and in this we agree with the three political groups. We're talking about avoiding rotating doors. We are proposing to strengthen the period of incompatibilities from two to five years. There is also talk of efficiency. The law for the protection of the complainant from corrupt practices is also discussed. This is included, Your Honor, in the agreement that we have signed both political formations. There is talk of recovering the public health system. In the agreement which we have signed, and which I bring here to your assessment, Your Honor, the universality of public health is recovered, and not reduced, but the pharmaceutical coffers which the People's Party has included over the past four years are removed, and which have been a barrier to access to many drugs, especially pensions. We are also talking about recovering the health card deadlines that the People's Party cut in 2012. There is also talk of the progressive extension of public education from zero to three years. We're talking about the scholarship as a right. There's talk of paralyzing the Lomce. There is talk of a comprehensive law for the effective equality of LGBT people. Yesterday I said that we have proposed a law on equal treatment and non-discrimination. There is also talk of promoting parity in institutional bodies. Your Honor, that goes without saying when we are talking about a socialist government. I pledge to return to the Government of Spain parity is its composition. We're talking about the energy transition. We are also talking about a new financing system that would logically affect the Valencian Community, and I share with you the under-financing and the public debt problem that the Valencian Community has, and we are also talking about reforming and entering into the labour reform that the People's Party has raised. This is the Botanical Agreement, Mr Baldoví. The things that have been raised and approved by the Socialist Party of the Valencian and Compressed Countries, and that you have defended as a good example that should be brought to this House, are issues that 80% are in the agreement that we have signed by the two parliamentary groups Citizens and Socialists. Therefore, Mr Baldoví, I say this to you with all due respect, let us put aside prejudices, let us put aside those things that separate us, let us think about change, and if we do that, Mr Baldoví, I am convinced that, not next week, but that today we can make that change happen and that Mr Rajoy stops being the President of the Government in office. [[Applauds]] Mr Garzón says that there are numbers for a left-wing government, and I say to him that after listening to Mr Tardà, I believe that there are more arguments than ever so as not to bring Spain's governability to rest in a force that does not share a common project, which is Spain, as is the Republican Left. Mr Garzón and Unidad Popular-Izquierda Unita proposed to us at the beginning of the negotiation an investment agreement, ladies and gentlemen. Beyond all the rhetoric that you have put forward, that this is a government or a liberal proposal, that is a proposal that does not break, that is a proposal that continues and that does not deal with the oligarchies - I do not know very well what it refers to the oligarchies - I say one thing, Mr Garzón, and that is that if you take the trouble of reading the agreement between Citizens and the Socialist Party you will see that as regards regulatory bodies and freedom of competition in the market, especially in those economic sectors where there is a natural tendency to corporate concentration, we are advocating for freedom and free competition. A different question is that you, Mr Garzón, are defending the nationalization of many energy sectors or strategic sectors for the Spanish economy. Do you know what I'm saying to you, Mr. Garzón, with all humility? That if there are resources for that, I would rather approve a minimum vital income than nationalize, for example, an electric company. [[Applauds]] I'm telling you clearly, Mr. Garzón. But, look, let's go to the points of the investiture agreement that you approved in a committee, before starting negotiations with the Socialist Party. There are 16 points. Firstly, to adopt a progressive tax reform and to combat tax fraud. That is included in this agreement, Mr. Garzón. Secondly, to approve a social and employment emergency plan. That is included, Mr. Garzón, in this agreement. Textually, a social emergency plan. You may say that it is insufficient, but, as I told Mr Iglesias this morning, the worst of the measures of that social emergency plan is much better than continuing with Mr Rajoy as President of the Government in office. Much better, Mr. Garzón. [[Applauds]] Therefore, tax reform and social emergency plan. You say - it is true - that the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage in 2016 has to be around 20%. We disagree - we recognise this - and in the agreement we do not say 20%, but the increase has to be at least 1%, but above all - and this will recognise it to me, just as I am acknowledging that you are proposing an even higher rise in the interprofessional minimum wage - we are committing ourselves in a legislature to have the workers who earn the minimum wage regain purchasing power, and that is at least a step forward on what we have today. Thirdly, the creation of an employment and training plan is envisaged. That's included in the agreement, Mr. Garzón. A plan to support the social economy was put forward by the United People's Left Unity, and that is included in the agreement, Mr Garzón. The creation of a public bank was proposed. But, Mr. Garzón, if we call the ICO a public bank. The repeal of the Lomce was proposed and a commitment for the universality and freeness of education, and we are saying that we must paralyse the Lomce, that we have to recognize the scholarships as a right, and that we have to review the public prices of university tuition to bring them into line with family income. At least you'll recognize with me that maybe it's not all you ask for in educational matters, but it's a pretty significant step towards what we have, Mr. Garzón. With regard to the repeal of the so-called Mordaza Law, I have read to you the articles that we appealed to the Constitutional Court, which is my commitment to remove from the Law on Citizen Security, as well as the repeal of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code. You will acknowledge that this is a substantive step forward on what we have right now, Mr. Garzón. The adoption of a plan to combat gender-based violence is included in the agreement, Mr Garzón. As far as the repeal of laws that maintain patriarchal content is concerned, I agree that we will have to repeal them, but you will have to explain what they are. And also promote municipal autonomy and repeal the reforms carried out by the PP government in this area. I am textually reading your agreement, Mr Garzón, the investiture agreement that you offered to the Socialist Party. We are approving in this agreement - we accept this - the repeal of the Larsal, that is, the attempt by Mr Rajoy and his Government to privatize social services, today in the hands of the municipalities. Adoption of a comprehensive law or electoral reform that respects proportionality, in addition to a thorough reform of the Senate to make it effectively a chamber of territorial representation. But, Mr Garzón, if this is the case in the agreement that we have signed by the Socialist and Citizens' Party! And finally, to promote the creation of a parliamentary commission of inquiry into corruption and irregular financing of political parties. I pledge to you that if you give me the vote of affirmative investiture we will set up this commission of inquiry the next day to clarify all those crimes linked to irregular financing. [[Applauds]] I'm committed, Mr. Garzón. You have put forward 16 measures to vote in favour of the investiture of the Socialist candidate today or next Friday. Do you know how many of these 16 measures are included in the agreement? Mr. Garzón, 13 of 16. I am the chairman of a parliamentary group with 90 Members, and I do not want to impose my electoral programme on the rest of the political groups, nor do I want other parliamentary groups with less representation to impose their electoral programme on those who speak to it. I hold your hand, Mr Garzón, but 13 of the 16 measures you proposed are accepted and incorporated in the agreement we signed with Citizens. And I want to comment on one point. You spoke before boldness. I have always believed that the left has to govern the present to transform the future, and if today and next Friday you vote no, who you are letting govern the present is the People's Party and Mr Rajoy. Consider it. [[Applauds]] As for Bildu's spokesperson, I'll say two things. One, there is indeed a clear problem of approach, of orientation. You are raising the breakup and we are reforming and renewing the system, which are two very different things. If I will give you a consideration, beyond your right to decide, of the breakdown of national sovereignty. I am very grateful - I say this with all due respect - to listen to many political groups who say they want to regain national sovereignty in the European Union in order to defend the Spanish people against the evil Community institutions, and instead are questioning national sovereignty and trying to break it. One more consideration, Madam Spokesman, is that the agreement is going to ban fracking in Spain. It's on the deal. Perhaps with that, Your Honor, I could make you recapacitate. As for UPN, to Mr Alli I will tell you very politely, because you have advocated for the great coalition: no, thank you. I know that you have presented yourself in a coalition with the People's Party. You are a different party, but you have an investment agreement to invest Mr Rajoy as President of the Government, and therefore you represent a completely different political project from the one I represent. All I hope is that I respect my will, my determination and also the courage to try to forge an alternative majority to that of the People's Party. Mr Martínez Oblanca of the Asturias Forum, who I believe has been a senator in the last parliamentary term - in which, by the way, from the Senate criticized and much the General Budgets of the State approved by the People's Party, saying that they were sinking into Asturias because they did not recognize many of the investments in infrastructure that Asturian society deserves - now tells us that he will support Mr Rajoy in his investiture. I have nothing to object to. Moreover, I expected nothing more from the party founded by Mr Alvarez-Cascos than to return to the mother house, which is the People's Party. [[Applauds]] As for Mrs Oramas, I thank her very much for her tone, her willingness to understand us. We are getting along precisely with the Canary Islands Government. Many of the issues you have raised are a road map that we share with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and our comrades in the Socialist Party of the Canary Islands, as a much fairer system of autonomous financing for the Canary Islands, adopting economic aspects of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, and that road map that we have shared with Mr Quevedo in a coalition in which we have introduced New Canary Islands and the Socialist Party. Our commitment to both is that this reform of the Constitution recognizes the anchoring of the REF in the Constitution, as well as the status of the outermost regions of the Canary Islands, which is already recognized in the Treaties of the European Union. Various investments have also been proposed, common investments in coasts, hydraulic works, housing, tourist infrastructure, educational infrastructure and road infrastructure, as well as an employment plan, which has also been one of the elements, both by Mrs Oramas and by Mr Quevedo. I want to tell you that we're going to make it possible. I think we have some experience and that experience supports us. When the Socialist Party has ruled, it has done very well in the Canary Islands in terms of infrastructure, investment and inter-territorial solidarity, and my commitment, with both Mrs Oramas and Mr Quevedo, is that it will continue to be so if we once again have a socialist president and a government at the forefront over the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your appreciation from the Joint Parliamentary Group, and I insist that I think we have a huge opportunity, Mr Baldoví, Mr Garzón and ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group: the opportunity to put an end to Mr Rajoy's government and open a period of change in our country. I'm holding your hand. I think that if we talk about the things that unite us, we will certainly find a common territory, rather than if we strive to keep talking about those issues that separate us, that I assure you that they are much less than you have tried to do from this rostrum. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u136	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. For the replica shift of the Joint Group, which is divided into four minutes for Mr Baldoví and two minutes for the others, I will be very strict, because if not, after we have advanced the time, we will pass. Mr Baldoví is already coming down, but for two minutes I would recommend, without implying any discourtesy, that they intervene from the seat.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u137	I'll be disciplined, Mr. President. We have said this many times, Mr Sánchez: our only red line was that we did not continue to govern the People's Party, but what we cannot - I insist - and should not be held responsible for the People's Party's continued rule of tomorrow. I tell you, the PNV has told you: there are other paths that do lead to an investiture. You've suggested it a couple of times, we've suggested it a lot of people, but you're still committed to putting us through a pact that you've closed with Citizens. That pact is, you take it or you leave it. This is it: if you vote in favour, you make Mr. Rajoy not to remain president, and if you vote against, it's your fault. [[Show a document]] It does not seem legitimate to me to hold us responsible for continuing to govern Mr Rajoy; I would say that if we had continued to have those conversations that we were having many groups, it might have been another outcome today. Of course, we are very eager and delighted that Mr Rajoy is leaving the government's well-deserved holiday. He tells us that there are elements we could agree on, and indeed there are many elements in his agreement with Citizens that we subscribe perfectly, but there are many others that we would not subscribe to. He has made reference to the Pact of Botànic, a pact of which, for example, Citizens try to mock in the Valencian Country, and he calls it the Pact of the Titanic. The difference is essential: the Botànic Pact is a plural, left-wing and exchange-rate pact. I want to say that in the opposition they are Citizens, whom you called a successor to the People's Party in full electoral campaign, and the People's Party, and Compromises, Socialist Party and Podemos are supporting from the outside. And then he hasn't talked about something that I think is fundamental: what government we'll have. Will it be a monocolor government of the Socialist Party? Will Mr. Garicano be in that government? Will it be monocolor? Will it be plural? This is also an important detail, because he asks us for a blank check, we give him the blank check and what happens next. That too would have to be explained. By the way, it's Citizens who veto us. He has expelled six governors in the Valencian country not for supporting mayors, but simply for being in pacts where there are directors and directors of Compromís. I'm finishing up, because I promised it would be strict. The Valencians have heard many promises, from here and from here; many promises. We're sick of hearing promises. I ended up with a word you said yesterday: mestization. Mixing is done with ideologically related people. Another sentence you repeated was next week. Next week could be the beginning of a big change. The Valencians have an expression that says: bon xic, mal résultat. Good boy, bad result. You can't be a good boy with everyone, you have to choose, and we ask you to choose a path. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u138	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Garzón, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Sánchez, we have two fundamental problems: one is political and the other is arithmetic. I don't understand the logical artifice by which 161 doesn't add up and 130 does; I don't understand it; I don't understand it in any way. [[Applauds]] And I don't understand why the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, as a self-defined leftist party, places the center or axis of gravity in Albert Rivera and Citizens, instead of doing it at a table of four, where there are more seats and better chance to build a parliamentary majority. That is the arithmetic problem, it is a question that logically hides politics. And the other problem, political, is that this is not a quantitative problem, it is a qualitative problem; it is not a market or an auction of measures that I offer you, you answer me and we start negotiating. This is a problem of global political coherence, it is a problem that if we want to make social policies we need instruments on the economic side. What you can't do is give us the social agenda and give the economy to Mr Rivera, because then you're cheating on us. [[Applauds]] You ask about the oligarchy. The oligarchy is the one that drinks the instruments to which I am making references. What's wrong with Bankia? Bankia is part of the financial system, is a financial institution and is an instrument that has public housing, that could be put on cheap public rent, is a financing instrument for autonomous, small and medium-sized enterprises, families, and yet it seems that you want to continue with privatization, as does the People's Party. Then there is no instrument for making housing policy. What's wrong with Endesa? 14 billion euros swindled by Endesa in recent years and neither the People's Party nor you have said anything at all. That has to do with basic supplies. Without instruments, without economy, there is no social policy. So don't do fireworks, it's a lie. Take the economy away from Albert Rivera, stop seeing us as enemies, let us be accomplices to a social agenda for the sake of the street and you will have our support; but as long as you continue with a right-wing economic agreement, you will not have the vote on the left. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u140	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u141	Mr. Sanchez, you have a problem with the dictionary and you're trying to confuse us. Moratorium and prohibition are not the same; the moratorium was ruled out by his own party in Vitoria, and the moratorium means not to give up fracking. [[Applauds]] So don't try to confuse, they're not the same. If not, ask Vitoria. Secondly, you say that we bet on the breakup. No, don't be mistaken; we bet on democracy, and you, where others put democracy, put laws, because you don't understand that laws are at the service of democracy and not the other way around, and there's nothing more democratic than what most citizens think, something you don't want to hear either in Euskal Herria, Catalonia or Galicia, and you have a problem. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] And thirdly, you say the law is above all else. And I'm telling you that if women had started from that base, today we might not even have the right to vote, and maybe we wouldn't have got many of the rights we have, which still don't make us citizens on equal terms or with the same possibilities, but which have made it possible for us to move forward, because we have fought over what the law said. [[Applauds.-Protests]] They've fought a lot before us, a lot older than us, and they've been getting better odds. We are still very far away, but thanks to the fight and not seeing the law as an unstoppable limit is how they have been able to achieve improvements. Finally, you say - I think you have made apologie of it - that the sum of lefts does not give, I think it is because you already sit off the left, because the offer you have brought here is not lefts, it is not a real change, it is not the profound change that is needed, and therefore more I think you are satisfied that the numbers do not give, that the truth is that after the last elections are quite complicated. [[Applauds]] From Euskal Herria Bildu I want to end by saying that we have the hand stretched out so that those who really do bet on that real change and want to make that change know that our willingness is absolute to work, collaborate and take decisive steps in that direction, because, I insist - I said at the beginning - what is offered to us today by Mr Sánchez is more than the same thing. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u142	You have the floor, for two minutes too, Mr Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u143	Mr President, these applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are significant. Mr. Sanchez, I'd like to make two points. One, you have not answered me in relation to self-government and the fourth transitional provision that defends the Navarro People's Union. Let it be very clear that the Navarro People's Union is going to defend Navarra as an outlaw and a Spanish one. Two, I will give you a thought, with all due respect, so that you know exactly what the Navarro People's Union is. Its founders defined it with three ideological principles. Firstly, yes, we are conservative in the defence of our own, of the land, of customs, of our habits; secondly, we are liberal, because we defend the free market, private initiative, individual freedoms, and thirdly, we are tremendously progressive in the social sphere. I refer to the facts. Navarra currently has a basic income earner for every 25 navarros, when the national average is one basic income earner for every 175 Spaniards. We are the number 12 community of 278 European regions, with less severe poverty rate, according to the Eurostat agency, in its indicator Arope, At risk of poverty and exclusion. The definition of these three ideological principles, Mr Sánchez, is ideological centrality, and from there we will vote with complete freedom on any initiative, coming from the party that comes. That is how we have worked for twenty-four years with the Socialist Party of Navarre and the Union of the Navarro People, and we are at a historic moment in seeking those consensus forces of the constitutionalist parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u144	Thank you, Mr. Alli. Mr. Martinez also has his two minutes of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as all of you have just heard, virtually all of the candidate's answer, Mr Sánchez, has been addressed to those members of the Joint Group who are ministers in an attempt, ministers of the government of change, which, inspired by Mr Sánchez, would not be such a change, but rather a change, because of his mania of formulating and crushing the promises and electoral commitments with the Spanish. This in Asturias doesn't catch us new. You, a year ago, visited my land and promised to maintain Hunosa's plant. We never knew if it meant hydrangeas or the main plant of the Pozu Moqueta, so dear to the PSOE, so in Asturias we were already warned of its insolvency. The candidate rightly reminds me of my passage through the Senate, where I criticized the People's Party a lot, and I tell him here, before all of Spain, before my countrymen, that I will do it again once and a thousand times, because the Asturians have put me in the General Courts, today in the Congress of Deputies, to defend Asturias. With the People's Party we have signed a coalition agreement, entitled To add from Asturias for Spain, which guarantees with Rajoy the fulfillment and the solution of the main problems of the Asturians; those problems that you, Mr Sánchez, forgot yesterday, have ignored today and will again forget tomorrow if invested president. It won't be with the Forum vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u146	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Mrs Oramas also has the two minutes of reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sánchez, I had no doubt that he would be committed to the policies of the Canary Islands, because we had concluded an agreement with the Canary Islands annex a few days ago, and, as is important, I say this to you here. However, there is an essential issue for the Canary Islands, for many Canary women and many Canary men, which are non-contributory pensions. As you know - we talked about it at the meeting we had with your group - non-contributory pensions are very small in Peninsular Spain, but they are the majority in the Canary Islands, because people emigrated, women did not contribute in agriculture and many men did not do so in construction. This is something that right now has to do with poverty rates. We therefore want a commitment to this modification of non-contributory pensions, which are so important in the Canary Islands. Finally, I would like to say that I am abstaining today. We know that we have the agreement on the Canary Islands, but we need an agreement so that there will be a Spanish Government with minimal stability, with a fixed and agreed time to make those regeneration and state reforms and the social policies that this country needs. You have to negotiate in the next days and hours. And if it has that minimum, that government, even if in a minority, with specific parliamentary support, will find us, the canarian nationalists, as this House has always found us, in the great pacts of state. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr Quevedo also has his time. He's gonna step in from the seat.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u149	Virtually everything is said, but New Canarias wants to insist that there is an opportunity here, an opportunity to build an alternative government to that of the People's Party, which has meant a clear involution in rights and equality, an increase in poverty, a deterioration in major public services, etc. Therefore, the objective of the forces we believe in political change cannot be other than to build a new Government. In New Canarias we are clear that the social majority will appreciate any effort in that regard. Having to go through a new electoral process would, in our opinion, be a genuine democratic scandal, with a result that would probably look like this, although perhaps there would be some surprise, and the next day we would have to go live in the Antipods, if possible, because to see how we explain it. A gigantic effort must be made to reach a political agreement of change and it is in our hands. That's the message from New Canarias. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u150	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Mr. Candidate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr Baldoví recognizes me that the red line is that we do not continue to govern the People's Party, and we have the opportunity to do so. Of course, I will not hold you responsible for anything; I simply tell you that you can be a part of that change that we have proposed and that I have put to your consideration and vote. Many of those elements, Your Honor, are included in the agreement we have with Citizens. Many of the elements of the social emergency plan that are included in the Botanical Pact, many of the elements that have to do with the renewal of the productive model or with the elimination of many of the cuts in labour rights that it has raised and perpetrated in office, are recognized in that agreement, Mr. Baldoví. What I am telling you is that we are putting the Government into action, we are going to put in place all those issues on which the parliamentary majority agrees in this Congress, and those issues on which you and I agree, I pledge to push them here, to convince the parliamentary majority and that they can be a reality. Let's talk about the things that unite us. There are so many things that unite us, Mr Baldoví, not only with Compromís, but also with the Socialist Party, Podemos, Popular Unity, PNV and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. There are a lot of things. Let us therefore take Spain out of this blockade and set in motion the change of government and the government of change, which is what the Spanish voted on 20 December. That is the only thing I am calling for, for him to be a part of that change, because without his vote, without his support, it will not be possible to do so. Mr. Garzón returns with the sums and the subtractions. I understand that it does not cause him to reject, from the point of view of arithmetic and also of the political project, what can represent Republican Left. It is not a question that casts doubt, but for me to break national sovereignty, for example, recognizing the right to self-determination of a certain territory in our country, is to break with one of the basic principles of a party that was an architect and also a worker of that 1978 Constitution, which we want to renew, but we also want to reform and not break. [[Applauds]] That's why, Mr. Garzón, I'm holding your hand. You talk about qualitative measures, not just the seats. As I have already said, I would like to be able to form a left-wing government, but simply the numbers do not, Mr Garzón, do not. No matter how much you say they give, they don't. Do not say what is not true to Spanish public opinion, Mr Garzón. They don't give the numbers. A different question is that others - I don't know you - are in their electoral strategy to repeat the elections. Numbers don't count. Therefore, I am not going to assess either the policies of that left-wing government, which cannot be given, nor its composition nor its organizational chart, although it has, of course, a plenipotentiary vice-presidency of Mr Iglesias. I do not enter into this, Mr Garzón, in what I enter into is that an agreement is possible, that a change is possible and that the step I have taken with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is in the right direction, because in order to move forward we have to take a first step and we have taken it. Yesterday I said this: This is not a sum, it is an exponential multiplication of all the forces of change, and if we make that differentiation between those who want everything to remain the same and those who want to change, I am convinced that today, today, we can already have that government of change. I hold your hand, and I hope, Mr. Garzón, that you will. I just want to give you a nuance, Mr. Garzón. You said that you will not vote for me on the left, and I say to you that your left, because there are also 90 Members of the Left here. [[Applauds]] To the spokesman for UPN, Mr Alli, I honestly say that we are not going to support his proposal for a great coalition. I understand that you have an ideological affinity with the People's Party and that you have come forward, not in coalition, but with that commitment to invest Mr Rajoy as President of the Government. We cannot share that goal. Linking up with what Bildu's spokesperson said, I'll do a math. For the Socialist Party the left has never been independentist, never, ever; do not identify independence with the left. I would like to refer to one more point. You talk about women's rights. This party, the Socialist Party, here in this House, has passed important laws to combat gender-based violence and to recognize women's right to be mothers when they decide. As a result, your lessons on feminism and women's right and equality, I will not admit any. [[Applauds]] As for Mr Martínez, representative of Foro Asturias, all I tell him is that he is not Marxist, but of those of Groucho Marx: These are my principles, and if they do not like them, change them. You, the past legislature, have been criticizing Mr Rajoy's cuts in infrastructure investments in Asturias, and now you say that Mr Rajoy is going to fulfill them as President of the Government? What's more, Mr. Martinez, you know the Gijón City Hall case, don't you? The Town Hall of Gijón, ladies and gentlemen, is governed by Forum Asturias, with the support of the People's Party and with the support of Podemos. That's what we don't want for Gijón City Hall. [[Applauds]] Mrs Oramas, I recognize your effort, your abstention and your predisposition. In the agreement with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, we have proposed that the Toledo Pact be reconfigured and rebuilt and, consequently, that the sustainability of public pensions be guaranteed, and that is my commitment. Mr Quevedo, from Nueva Canarias, I would like to thank him for his affirmative vote and to say that Spain urgently needs a government, that Spain urgently needs a change and that Spain urgently needs an agreement that makes this government and that change possible. That is what I am putting to your consideration in this vote. I humbly hope that among all of us we will be able to change Spain, change the Government, change the policies and put an end to those who are not present in their seats today, the President of the Government in office, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u152	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. To conclude the group's turn, I have the floor, Mr Hernando, on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Candidature, next year will mark 40 years of the first free elections since the Second Republic. Since then, the Spanish people have had the opportunity to exercise their right to vote in eleven general elections. In these almost forty years Spanish citizens have expressed their will through the ballot boxes, thus determining the composition of Parliament, which is the reflection of the evolution of Spanish society. During this period Parliament has had very different compositions and has given rise to different compositions of governments, with governments of absolute majority, parliamentary agreements or minority governments. But, ladies and gentlemen, it gives the impression that the time of the absolute majority has gone so as not to return. Some will be able to cause melancholy, others will understand that it was a much more comfortable time, that it was more comfortable to bring laws to Parliament and get them out at the pace of a military march, but, I insist, let us forget that comfort, because that comfort will not return. If what some are trying to do is to repeat the elections until we get closer to those majorities, so comfortable in Parliament but so far away from present-day Spain, it is that they have not yet realized that the future is no longer what it was. On 20 December, the ballot boxes spoke again, and the first thing they said was that for the first time in the democratic stage, the Spaniards did not renew their majority confidence in the President-in-Office after his first and only term. The ballot boxes have also said something very clear: that the Spaniards of today are not willing to give overwhelming or outstanding majority from one to the other. We are here in charge of interpreting the message and managing this mandate. It is now our time, the time when the 350 Members of Parliament have to give impetus to the engine that will make it possible for the 11th Parliament to move forward. In these days we have heard with some surprise some who say that they are not afraid of the new electoral process, but it is not the fear or the audacity that each of us can have before a new electoral process; no, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about us, it is about Spain, or what is the same, it is about each of the 45 million citizens who live in this country. It is that if the elections are at the end of June there will be no Government until September. Does anyone really believe that this country can afford the luxury or irresponsibility of being with a government in office for nine months? What if the result of those elections is about the same as we have now? So, what do we tell the citizens? That they're wrong again? That we want another electoral process until one of us gets a comfortable majority that allows him to rule as in the past? It gives me the impression that this is not the answer that citizens expect from us. Those who have rushed to throw out the towel, to ask for new elections, have really thought about what citizenship wants? I humbly believe that the citizens of this country do not want to repeat elections, because they have already fulfilled their obligation by voting; what they want, because they need it, is to have a government and a Parliament that without delay begin to respond to their problems and needs. The question is: What excuse are some going to put to justify that this is not possible? The democratic path of our country is long enough and solid enough to offer valuable lessons that we should try to take advantage of during these days. The lack of absolute majority in the 1977 and 1979 legislatures did not prevent Spain from implementing the major changes that have underpinned the development of our democratic system. I'll give you some examples of the time. The Constitution was adopted in three years, the Moncloa Covenants were signed and the Amnesty Act, the tax reform and the Workers'Statute were adopted. Between 1979 and 1981 the autonomous process was promoted, with the first approval of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia; then the Statute of the Basque Country; then the Statute of Galicia and then the Statute of Andalusia. It is not bad for a General Court and a Government that did not have an absolute majority. Perhaps what our predecessors renounced was to teach each other lessons, and see that then that would have been an easy temptation. Here were those of the exile from outside and those of the exile from within, the reprisals, those who had been clandestine and those who had persecuted and imprisoned them. However, neither of them sinned at the two evils that afflict us here and now: adanism and immobilism. [[Applauds]] Those Courts, like the successive ones, were formed by people of different origins, social origin, class situation, educational training and, of course, ideological choice: from lawyers of the State to metal workers, from professors to electricians, from ministers of the former regime to ministers who had sucked the ominous air from the ovens of Buchenwald. Everyone was here before us, and no, ladies and gentlemen, we are not the first and we will not be the last. However, those who were the first to give up lessons in moral superiority despite the suffering and suffering they bore behind their backs. The adanism of some and the immobilism of others would have led those first Courts to failure. Adamism today translates into thinking and acting as if some of these seats were occupied by people who carry long sufferings and prison stories, revolutionaries who have lived exile, struggles and humiliations, and not. Fortunately for all of us - because that is a collective conquest of this country - none of us can claim the legendary stories of those who were part of the first democratic courts. Fortunately for this country, none of the present can boast of being the only representative of a class, of the suffering of citizens, of a movement or of the suffering of a collective. There are no unique and unrepeatable stories here, no matter how much they strive to stage them. That is why it would also be very helpful if some of them would give up standing at the mercy of the Courts. [[Applauds]] We have had signs of immobilism throughout the last parliamentary term - perhaps some of the most serious problems we are now experiencing are a consequence of inaction - but the height of immobilism, ladies and gentlemen, the quintessentiality of an immobilism attitude is to pretend to paralyse the investiture schedule, declining that the head of state proposes the name of a candidate. That is serious, because the passage of time can be expected to solve some problem and even think that the passage of time can facilitate the solution or consensus in certain matters, but decline to take the initiative in a constitutionally assessed procedure, making strategic calculations or parliamentary fakes, thus preventing the beginning of the two-month period, is pure immobilism, immobilism transferred to the institutions and, therefore, to a country and to all its citizens. Let us imagine that all political forces would have acted in the same way. If that immobilism had resulted in not acting, not doing, not taking the step, not taking the risk, what would have happened? Clearly, that was not the option of the Socialist Party candidate for the Presidency of the Government, who preferred to take the step and face. The opposite was to hide in expectation of a more favorable correlation, of a different situation, that time would solve the arithmetic problem that one did not want or could not face. That letting go or letting go is the irrefutable proof that some people only think of their own interests and those of their party and bring them without care the general interest of this country. The minute after the polls close, we are the elected ones who have to start demonstrating whether we are up to the level of the voters who have sat us in these seats. The initiative, under the careful and demanding scrutiny of the voters, had to be developed in this house, and the main effort had to be done with the others, with whom it was intended to reach concrete agreements that entailed concrete changes, and the greatest of the energies had to be deployed with parliamentary groups called to lead the time of change. That's how we did it and that's how we tried to do it. Change is action of change, but let's not confuse anyone. One of the fundamental attributes of change at this time is that it cannot be pushed forward with those in power here and now. On March 2, 2016, change means, above all, to turn the page of the behaviors that they represent one day yes and another also a real mockery for the institutions and a widespread mockery to the vast majority of the citizens of this country, who in their daily becoming behave with correctness, honesty and decency. But if serious are the behaviors of individual enrichment, much more serious is the collective behavior of those who have been able to finance irregularly, undermining the very foundations of democracy, because that collective behavior constitutes the basis of an inequality of means, instruments and capacities that supposes that in many electoral disputes some have participated with advantage. Rawls says, in his Theory of Justice, that freedoms protected by the principle of participation lose much of their value when those with greater private resources can use their advantages to control the course of political debate. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we should conclude that change cannot come from the hands of those who have illegally had greater private resources to control the political debate or to confront electoral disputes over the past twenty years. [[Applauds]] He said that the effort in this time of illusion and hope, as well as of zozobra and difficulties, should be the protagonist of each of us and each of our organizations. It was and is time to put into practice the best of representative democracy, each exercising its responsibility, taking risks, even assuming the possibility of failure, and that is what the candidate for the Presidency of the Government has done. The candidate for the Presidency of the Government is with an agreement signed with the Parliamentary Group Citizens. And before I enter into the agreement again, I want to devote a few moments to the procedure. The attitude with which we have come to these negotiating tables has not been that of winning. A television or election debate is going to be won, your arguments, your dialectic ability, your brilliance or reflexes defeat the opponent; the negotiation of a pact, if any of the interlocutors will win, they all lose. Perhaps that culture has not yet been assumed in its full extent and declines throughout the House. We have come to the negotiation of this agreement to seek common denominators, without a prioriism, leaving aside what is far behind, in order to seek consensus on what is most urgent, because here, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of responding to emergencies, but not to our emergencies, to those of our organizations or of our electoral programmes, but to the emergencies of citizens, who want concrete solutions to everyday problems, and the question is that many of these problems have solutions that can be consensual, that can be made up of part of what we each propose through dialogue. That consensus serves to seek solutions, to govern the public thing, but, honestly, if it is about taking territories under assault, then consensus is an indispensable tool, it is more, it is an instrument that hinders the assailants. Over the past few weeks, they have appeared in written media, social media, political chats, expert analysis of what ingredients should have every attempt to find agreement to achieve success. There are opinions for all tastes, but perhaps here too there is a common denominator: realism. However, in this case realism is not synonymous with reality, but with the flight from the dream of making our own proposals and only those, our own. Realism is self-containment, measure, humility or modesty. These are essential attitudes for the search for common places, wider territories, and more distant horizons. Realism, ladies and gentlemen, is to have that attitude, and the opposite is the calculated search for dissent or justification, many times more for a matter of form than of substance, of rupture. It is also realism what the governments of Madrid, Barcelona or Cadiz do. The municipal government of Madrid, which committed itself during the campaign to the remunicipalization of cleaning and gardening services, now recognizes the difficulties for the reversal of contracts for legal and economic reasons, and the same has happened in Zaragoza or in Cadiz with the remunicipalization of other public services. Another example of realism could be observed in the Barcelona municipal government, which promoted the so-called "Stairway Commitment" so as not to renew any public procurement of services with a particular telephone company. Do you know what happened? That it has had to be extended six more months and even goes to a third extension, because they have realized the difficulty of introducing new conditions during the duration of the tender. Frankly, I am convinced that all the members of those candidatures had better intentions when they made their programs, but then they sinned at a lack of realism that they are having to apply now. [[Applauds]] Indeed, in relation to these municipal governments, we put forward the wishes for change expressed by the citizens to the literality of the concrete proposals of their projects. It was a question of interpreting the priorities well, and at that time the PSOE did not hesitate: we facilitated the change. And what do we ask in return? I will tell you in three words: nothing at all; because the desire for change of Madrid, Cadiz, Zaragoza, Barcelona or other cities was above the interests of each party. These are examples that I bring to the table so that some groups can reflect by looking at themselves in nearby mirrors, because unfortunately tonight some are going to delay the change by voting the same as the People's Party against the policies of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] A few months ago someone said in a typical boast of modesty, humility, that the PSOE would have to choose between making him president of the government or supporting the current president. The reality is sometimes clumsy and has denied that spokesman by reversing the tornadoes. It is now a question of making a socialist president, Pedro Sánchez, or allowing the President-in-Office to continue. That's the disjunctive, and that's where we're all going to portray each and every one of us. When we cast our vote in a few moments, it will contain the polysemia of a message that answers many questions, because yes, the vote is polysemic and when you say yes or no, you will say yes or no to more things than the candidate for the Presidency of the Government. It is going to say yes or no to a broad and extensive chapter of radical struggle for democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption contained in pages 41, 48 and 51 of this pact. When voting this afternoon, we are going to say yes or no to a social emergency plan on page 31; to the abolition of co-payments to pensioners and dependents on page 35; to recover the objectives of the Unit Act on page 36; to the halting of the Lomce on page 26. They are going to vote yes or no on the employment shock plan on page 21; the relocation plan for older than 45 years on page 23; the aid and training plan for 800,000 young people on page 24. They will vote yes or no for the unembargoability of the usual housing of families with difficulties on page 10; to restore the universality of health on page 33; or to end the energy poverty on page 32. Yes or no, ladies and gentlemen? Is it of no value to guarantee equal pay for men and women on page 37 or the State Pact against Gender Violence which is committed on page 41? And are there some who are going to vote that not to this? [[Applauds]] Then they go out and explain it. Is it not relevant to amend article 135 of the Constitution to ensure the social stability that is committed on page 65 or to review the foundations of the electoral system or to regain consensus within the Toledo Pact to ensure the sustainability and sufficiency of pensions? Well, some people are going to vote no. Each and every one of these proposals is important, they are fundamental because each and every one of them has face and eyes. They affect specific people, specific problems of millions of citizens. These proposals mean attacking the imperfections of the system, the scarring of some services or abuses of power. The agreement presented by the candidate for the investiture seeks to address the frustrations of many people who have been marginalized by the policies that have been implemented in recent years. With the program with which Pedro Sánchez presents himself to this investiture we intend to remove this country from the symptoms of paralysis and disappointment that run through ministries and decision-making centers. This agreement reaches its full role because it transcends the decisions of a government programme agreed with another political force, in order to acquire a symbolic dimension of what politics in Spain will have to be from now on: a ground for dialogue, concertation and agreement. We will have to regain the spirit of 1977 because the practice of consensus was driven by disuse. Now it will have to be reactivated and it will have to be greased. More than thirty years ago this country taught the world a lesson of harmony, and the incomprehensible thing is that today, thirty-eight years later, with the democratic experience that we have of practice in institutions, of life in full freedom, we are not even able to sit down and dialogue. Perhaps the difference between the protagonists of that time and the present is that those were more eager to be and to do than to be and figure. I hope this changes in a short time. [[Applauds]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PSOE has fulfilled one hundred and thirty-seven years of history. The deputies present here are heirs of the first socialists of the nineteenth century who from small workshops, from mines or from large factories raised their broken voice to shout freedom; we are heirs of the socialists who shed dry tears in the prisons of dictatorship or exile; we are heirs of the thousands and thousands of workers who in the seventies of the last century conquered union freedom and we are also heirs and we are proud of the governments of Felipe González and José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Applauds]] Governments that raised the welfare state, built universal health and public and free education for all. We are children of the governments that broke the insurmountable wall of the Pyrenees to integrate Spain into the European Union. We are children of those who have enlarged the freedoms of men and women whom we are proud of, despite the fact that today they were intended to insult and stain with lime, people who made equality and freedom their flag and conquered it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Today, too, I would like to express, of course, to Pedro Sánchez all the support and the utmost recognition of his group, of the Socialist Group. We want to thank you for your responsibility and determination to seek the agreement by looking to the future without anger and leaving the grievances aside. The future is of the brave; it is a contraction of a longer quote from Victor Hugo, who says: The future has many names: for the weak it is the unattainable, for the fearful it is the unknown and for the brave it is the opportunity. The Socialist Group would like to acknowledge the value and responsibility of a candidate who has wanted to give a chance to millions of citizens who are not having a good time and who are currently looking at us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u154	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]] Mr. Candidate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me begin by saying a few words, first of all, to thank my group for its support, support and affection. I would like to tell you that we have fulfilled in this investiture session the three objectives that I set out yesterday to the whole House. The first of them, the objective before the Spaniards to show them that the Socialist Party is an instrument of change that has interpreted well the data of the election result of last December 20th and that it will remain a force of change that reaches out to the rest of political formations. The second of the objectives was with all of you and all of you, with the 350 Members and, above all, with those parliamentary formations that represent change to show you in that agreement that we have forged with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group that change is possible thanks to agreement and dialogue. In that regard, I would like to re-recognize the work of Mr Rivera and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. And, thirdly, with State institutions. We had a goal with the institutions of the state because, finally, today and next Friday, the clock of democracy that had paralysed those who are not here today, which is Mr Rajoy, is back in operation. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what would have happened in this country if I had said no to the king? In what situation would the democratic system be found in our country? We therefore exercised our responsibility and took a step forward in unlocking the political situation in our country's democracy. So far I have shown my affection, recognition and pride in being the president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also the secretary general of the Socialist Party. As I said at the beginning of my first speech yesterday, we are here calling for 350 Members of Parliament, to whom the Spanish have instructed us to find a political solution and, consequently, the agreement that we put to your assessment, to your consideration, and to your vote is the result of three clear commitments: firstly, to get Spain out of the current deadlock; secondly, to start the change, and, thirdly, to start at the speed agreed by the forces of change, but to move forward. In the face of that vote, ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of us, especially the parliamentary forces of change, will be able to vote yes or no. We, ladies and gentlemen, have already decided, we will vote yes. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate and while the sound appeal is being made so that all Members who are not here can come to participate in the vote, let me say one that, as you have seen, we have improved and much improved the forecasts made by this President about the time this debate was going to take up and this means two things: the first is that we have all respected the times and the management of the times very well, but the second and most important is that, despite some specific episodes that can be used and are actually being used to say that it has been a bronch debate, a debate with out of the blue in which some have had to be used thoroughly, I believe that it has been an intense and lively debate as it corresponds to an investiture debate, and, above all, a debate that has been conducted under the principle of parliamentarianism. Parliamentaryism is the predominance of the word, the predominance of education, respect and exchange of criteria. That is why, although it is not customary, this novice president in these discussions, although it is not customary and anyone wants to put this in the Rules of Procedure as they seem to want to put together other issues they have said, the only thing he wants to do is to thank them for making this debate possible and thank them for making it easy for the Bureau to manage this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Now, in advance too, we are going to proceed to the draw provided for in Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure because, as you know, the vote is by appeal and alphabetical order but starting with that Member who is elected in that draw. [[Pause]] The number is 160 and belongs to Mr Hurtado Zurera, Antonio. [[Rumors]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, take all your seats because we are going to proceed to the vote for the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by his majesty the king. As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal and your ladies and gentlemen shall answer yes, no or abstention from their seats when they are called by the ladies and gentlemen secretaries, who shall read the names from the rostrum of speakers. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries and secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. I therefore request the Secretary to begin the appeal first. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'Yes': Hurtado Zurera, Antonio. Igea Arisketa, Francisco Jiménez Tortosa, Juan Lafuente de la Torre, Monica Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lasarte Iribarren, José Javier Lastra Fernández, Adriana López Milla, Julián Lorenzo Rodríguez, Domingo Lozano Domingo, Irene Lucio Carrasco, María Pilar Luena López, Caesar Martín González, María Guadalupe Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez González, José Luis Martínez Seijo, María Luz Maura Barandiaran, Fernando Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Miguel Muñoz, Orlena María Millán Salmerón, María Virginia Molinary Malo, Ramon Luis Muñoz González, Pedro José Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez, Fernando Palacín Guarné, Gonzalo Peña Waiter, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Domínguez, María Soledad Pérez Herraiz, Margarita Pracht Ferrer, Carlos Pradas Torres, Antonio Francisco Friend Romero, Fidel Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro Rallo Lombarte, Artemi Vicent Ramírez Freire, Saul Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Rivera Andrés, Irene Rivera de la Cruz, Marta María Rivera Díaz, Albert Rodríguez Fernández, María Luz Rodriguez García, Isabel Rodríguez Hernández, Juana Amalia Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa Rodriguez Ramos, María Soraya Rodriguez Sánchez, Germán Rodríguez Vázquez, Antonio Roldán Monés, Antonio Romingera Salazar, María del Mar Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Salvador García, Luis Miguel Sánchez Amor, José Ignacio Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Boigas, Pilar Auxiliadora Serrano Jiménez, María Jesús Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Sierra Rojas, Patricia Simancas Simancas, Rafael Partners Puig, Ramón Antonio Such Palomares, Maria Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Ten Oliver, Vicente Torres Mora, José Andrés Trevín Lombán, Antonio Ramón María Urquizu Sancho, Ignacio Villegas Pérez, José Manuel Yáñez González, Pablo Zaragoza Alonso, José Abalos Meco, José Luis Alconchel Gonzaga, Miriam Antón Cacho, Javier Barreda Fontes, José María Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Well, Prado, Enrique. Calle Fuentes, José Antonio Camacho Sánchez, José Miguel Villar Camera, Gregorio Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Fields of Craftsmanship, Herick Manuel Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Cano Fuster, José Cano Leal, Francisco Javier Carrera de Castro, Zaida Singing García del Moral, Antonio Chacon Picqueras, Carme Clemente Giménez, Diego Cello Pérez, Carmen Rocío De Frutos Madrazo, María del Rocío De la Encina Ortega, Salvador Antonio De la Torre Díaz, Francisco De Campo Estaún, Sergio From the Moral Milla, Mary of Peace. Diaz Trillo, José Juan Elorza González, Odón Faba de la Incarnation, Elena Fernández Diaz, Jesús María Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Florez Rodríguez, María Aurora Franchise Vera, Sebastian Galeano Gracia, Oscar Gallego Arriola, María del Puerto Galovart Carrera, María Dolores Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel García Mira, Ricardo Antonio Vidal Swivel, Juan Carlos Girela de la Fuente, José Manuel Gomez Balsera, Marcial Gómez García, Rodrigo González Bayo, Josefa Immaculate González Martínez, Onesimo Eduardo González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel González Veracruz, María Gordo Pérez, Juan Luis Guinart Moreno, Lidia Gutiérrez Limones, Antonio Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel Heredia Díaz, Miguel Ángel Hernandez Spínola, Francisco Hernando Vera, Antonio Hernanz Costa, Sofia Hervías Chirosa, Francisco Javier Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'No': Iglesias García, Fernando Turrion Churches, Pablo Manuel Isac García, Angels Isern Estela, Mateo Jordan and Roura, Teresa Juncal Rodríguez, Juan Manuel Lara Carbo, Maria Teresa of Lasalle Ruiz, José María Legarda Uriarte, Mikel Lopez Ares, Susana López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio Lorenzo Torres, Miguel Luis Bail, Jorge Luis Rodríguez, Theophilus of Madrazo Díaz, Ana Maria Marcello Santos, Ana Marcos Moyano, María Dolores Marí Bosó, José Vicente Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Martín González, Lucia Martínez Dalmau, Rubén Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel Martínez Rodríguez, María Rosa Martínez Saiz, Theophila Martínez-Maillo Toribio, Fernando Martín-Toledano Suárez, José Alberto Matarí Sáez, Juan José Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel Matos Mascareño, Pablo Maura Zorita, Eduardo Javier Mayoral Perales, Rafael Medina Suárez, María Isabel Mena Arca, Joan Miquel Merino López, Rafael Molinero Hoyos, Francisco Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montero Gil, Irene Maria Montero Soler, Alberto Montserrat Montserrat, Dolors Moragas Sánchez, Jorge Moreno Bustos, Ramon Moreno Palanques, Rubén Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Moya Matas, Jaume Nadal Belda, Álvaro María Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Nieto Ballesteros, José Antonio Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de Olòriz Serra, Joan Baptista Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel Pascual Peña, Sergio Pastor Muñoz, Rosana Pérez Aras, Juan Vicente Pérez López, Santiago Pita Cárdenes, Maria del Camen Posada Moreno, Jesus Postius Terrado, Antoni Quintanilla Barba, María del Carmen Ramirez del Molino Morán, Alejandro Reynés Calvache, Águeda Ribera i Garijo, Elena Roca Mas, Jordi Rodríguez Martínez, Angela Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Rojas García, Carlos Red Noguera, Pillar Miracles Romero Hernández, Carmelo Romero Rodríguez, María Eugenia Rosell Aguilar, Maria Victoria Rufián Romero, Gabriel Salvador Armendáriz, Carlos Casimiro Salvador i Duch, Jordi Sanchez Maroto, Sol Sánchez Melero, Tania Sánchez Serna, Javier Santa Ana Fernández, María de la Concepción de Santos Itoiz, Eduardo Sibine Camps, Marta Sorli Fresquet, Marta Suárez Lamata, Eloy Surra Spadea, Ana Maria I'm late for Coma, Joan. Tarno Blanco, Ricardo Terraces Vineyards, Pains Terron Berbel, Ana Belén Valmaña Ochaíta, Silvia Vazquez Rojas, Juan María Vendrell Gardeños, Josep Vera Proro, Juan Carlos Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Noelia Vidal Sáez, Aina Old vineyard, Raimundo Vila Gómez, Miguel Viso Diéguez, Miguel Ángel Xucla i Costa, Jordi Yllanes Suárez, Juan Pedro Zoido Alvarez, Juan Ignacio Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Alba Goveli, Nayua Miriam Albadalejo Martínez, Joaquín Alli Martínez, Iñígo Jesús Alonso Cantorné, Felix Alonso Clusa, Rosa Ana Alós López, Ana Isabel Alvarez Simon, Maria Elena Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros, María del Carmen Angle Romero, Maria Teresa Ardanza Uribarren, María Pilar Acute Casting, Pedro Asian González, Matilde Pastora Ayala Sánchez, Andrés José Ayllón Manso, José Luis Azpiazu Uriarte, Pedro María Under Prieto, Maria Luz Baldoví Roda, Joan Ballester Muñoz, Angela Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Barrachina Ros, Miguel Barreda de los Ríos, Leopoldo Barrios Tejero, José María Bastida Bono, Elena Maria Battle and Ruiz, Enric Beitialarrangement Lizarralde, Marian Nice Accensi, Ferran Belarus Urteaga, Ione Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Bescansa Hernández, Carolina Blasco Marqués, Manuel Bonilla Dominguez, Mary Jesus Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Bosaho Gori, Rita Gertrudis Botejara Sanz, Amparo Bravo Baena, Juan Good luck, David. Bravo Ibáñez, My Conception Higgins, David Burgos Gallego, Thomas Bustinduy Amador, Pablo Camps Devesa, Gerardo Campuzano i Canadés, Carles Candle Serna, Ignasi Candon Adam, Alfonso Capdevila Esteve, Joan Chapel and Farre, Esther Carreño Fernández, María Ascension Carreño Valero, Sara Married White, Pablo Cascals Martínez, Loreto Barber Boy, José María Ciuro i Buldo, Lourdes Clavell López, Oscar Courtesy Bureta, Pilar From Cospedal García, María Dolores De la Concha García-Mauriño, María Asunción Jacoba Pía Del Olmo Ibáñez, Juan Manuel Del Río Sanz, Emilio Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Domènech Sampere, Francesc Xavier Dominguez Álvarez, Marta Dueñas Martínez, María del Carmen Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Eiros Bouza, José María Enbeita Maguregi, Onintza Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Errejón Galván, Íñigo Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta Spain Queen, Carolina Esteban Bravo, Aitor Fernández Bello, Miguel Anxo Elias Fernández Castañón, Sofia Fernández de Moya Romero, José Enrique Fernández García, Eduardo Fernández Gómez, Alexandra Floriano Corrales, Carlos Javier Franco Carmona, Isabel García Cañal, José Ramón García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Hernández, José Ramón García Puig, María del Mar García Urbano, José María García-Pelayo Jurado, María José García-Tizón López, Arturo Garrido Valenzuela, Irene Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gomez de la Serna and Villacieros, Pedro Ramón Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio González García, Second González Guinda, María del Carmen González Muñoz, Ángel Luis González Terol, Antonio Pablo González Vázquez, Marta War Mansito, María Belén Guijarro García, Txema Hernando Fraile, Rafael Antonio Herrero Bono, José Alberto Homs Molist, Francesc Honorato Chulián, María Auxiliadora Hole Juliá, Bethlehem Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'Abstention': Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Government members in office who said 'No': Rajoy Brey, Mariano Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, María Soraya García-Margallo y Marfil, José Manuel Catalá Polo, Rafael Montoro Romero, Cristóbal Ricardo Fernández Díaz, Jorge Pastor Julián, Ana Maria Mendez de Vigo Montojo, Íñigo Báñez García, María Fatima Soria López, José Manuel García Tejerina, Isabel Alonso Aranegui, Alfonso Members of the Bureau who said 'Yes': Reyes Rivera, Patricia Isaura Take Take, José Ignacio Navarro Garzón, Micaela López Álvarez, Patxi. Members of the Bureau who said 'No': Exposito Prieto, Marcelo Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, Alicia Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria Villalobos Talero, Celia
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u157	Has any honourable Member not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] We shall proceed to the scrutiny of the votes cast. [[Pause]] Made the count, he said
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-02-CD160302.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the vote was as follows: votes cast, 350; votes in favour, 130; votes against, 219; and abstentions, 1. Having failed to reach the proposed candidate by an absolute majority, the same proposal should be submitted to a new vote forty-eight hours after the previous one, in accordance with article 99.3 of the Constitution. Therefore, the plenary session of the House can meet with the legal possibility of deciding from approximately 7:45 p.m. next Friday, 4 March. Consequently, this Presidency calls for the plenary session of the House to be held on 4 March at 6.30 p.m., because, as you know, there is previously a debate with the participation of all groups to proceed to the second vote on the same proposal, with the anticipated outcome of the debate in no case will the vote be started before the same time as this one, which was seven o'clock in the afternoon. The meeting was thus adjourned. It was seven and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
