ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Domingo Lorenzo Rodríguez, I ask dona María Sandra Julià Julià if she swears or promises.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u3	In place of Don Alfonso Alonso Aranegui, I ask Don Javier Maroto Aranzábal if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u4	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u5	Dona María Sandra Julià Julià and Don Javier Maroto Aranzábal have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u6	In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the Chamber the amendment of the agenda of this session in the sense of including as a new point the consideration of the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, organic amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, in order to reduce the duration of electoral campaigns in cases of automatic dissolution of the Chambers, by the application of article 99.5 of the Spanish Constitution, which will be discussed cumulatively with the proposed organic law as item 2 of the agenda; if so, its processing is direct and read only. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the inclusion of the reference point in the agenda was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u7	We therefore begin with the item on the agenda relating to the consideration of proposals for legislation. In the first place, it is appropriate to discuss the consideration of the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic reform of Organic Law 2/2012, of 27 April, on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. To present the initiative, Mrs Asian González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I wish to express our strongest condemnation and rejection of the brutal aggression suffered by two civilian guards and their respective partners in the town of Alsasua. I would also like to express, on behalf of my group, our explicit support for the Civil Guard and its commendable work in protecting the rights and guarantees of all citizens. [[Applauds]] I defend in this rostrum the proposal for a law presented by the People's Parliamentary Group to amend the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, and I do so in the conviction that today in this House we will reach an agreement for the purpose of the reform of the law, which is nothing other than to avoid harm to the Spaniards. At the moment we have to take measures - the General Budgets of the State, linked to the interinity of the Government of Spain, cannot be made - in this House to prevent this cost from being transferred to the citizens in the form of damages. Citizens do not have to bear the cost of not having a government on time. The Organic Law on Budget Stability was adopted at a very critical time for our country, 2012. We were at the edge of the abyss, with a high risk of intervention. In order to avoid bankruptcy, it was necessary to strengthen stability in our economy and to guarantee public administrations budgetaryly. But the Organic Stability Law, whose reform we are dealing with today, is not just an economic law, it is not just a tax law. It is a law with a marked social character, because the purpose of the law is not only to put public accounts in order, the purpose of the law is not only to fix macroeconomic figures. The purpose of the law was to give a guarantee of the future to nine million pensioners, to five million unemployed, to the beneficiaries of public health and ultimately to all beneficiaries of our welfare system, who were seriously threatened. Therefore, I insist, never has a tax law had greater social impact. I would like to use this intervention to distinguish that the budgetary rigour contained in the rules of the Stability Act does not mean austerity. In fact, we are improving our deficit figures, and we are not doing so by reducing spending because economic recovery allows it. In the last three years of economic recovery we have not reduced spending, we have increased it, especially social spending. To compare figures, in 2007, the year of economic boom, public spending in Spain was EUR 420 billion, 38.9 of gross domestic product, and now, in 2015, the budget has been closed with 468 billion, 43.3 of gross domestic product. Therefore, I insist, never has a tax law had greater social impact. The Stability Act has been amended only once, and it was done precisely to improve the financing of essential public services and to broaden the concept of public debt and to make it public debt of the administrations not only financial but also commercial. In this way, 58 billion commercial debt from public administrations was secured and secured. But now is the time to take action, to minimize damage, and one of the most important measures we have to take to minimize damage is precisely to give a legal authorization so that the government can transfer the flexibility we have gained in Europe to all Spanish public administrations. It would be pointless to fight in Europe for greater flexibility and then legally in Spain to have a legal system that would prevent us from being used by administrations to finance the essential public services they have attributed. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that an excessive deficit file was opened in Spain in 2009. The Spanish have made a lot of efforts, but despite this in March we were made an autonomous recommendation by the European Union to redouble our efforts, to make preventive and coercive measures provided for in the Stability Act, and Spain made a lot of efforts: it adopted a non-availability agreement worth 2 billion, but despite the efforts made, in July Ecofin agreed to the certification of lack of effective action. What does this lack of effective action mean? It means the possibility of a fine being imposed on us, it means the possibility that we cannot participate in the structural funds. Of course, Spain, the government in office, has made allegations and fortunately the fine has been cancelled, but we have entered into commitments: a minimum in the payment of corporation tax, which we will see in this House, and advance of the budgetary closure in July 2016, which means an additional 1 billion savings; and finally, in August Europe communicates us a new path of fiscal consolidation. What's this path? It is the 4.8 deficit target for 2016, 3.1 for 2017 and 2.2 for 2018. We had to send a justification for this new flexibility with the maximum date of 15 October and we have done so; we have done so in extremis, but we have sent it. What have we sent? We have sent an extended budget with a figure of 3.6 deficit when we have entered into the commitment of 3.1, half a point above, and we have sent an effective action report. Now the breach will be more serious because the penalty will no longer be 2% but 5% and no claims are allowed. But we have reason for optimism in Spain. Our economy works well: we continue with economic dynamism, with growth of 3.2, twice as much as the European average; employment grows, not at the pace we would all like, but grows; and the external sector is strengthened: we are close to the 2% surplus in the current account balance with the external sector. But let's not be fooled, the domestic uncertainty we have does not benefit us, it harms us, so we have to take measures like this: amend the Stability Act. The Stability Act could not provide in April for extraordinary circumstances such as the modification of the consolidation path, a functioning Government and, therefore, the impossibility of making a budget. Let's talk about concrete figures. What is the objective of the autonomous communities today? The 0.3. But this is not only their deficit target, it also marks the level of their debt capacity, of the possibility of being financed by the State. We know that communities are going to end up exceeding this figure in 2016 and are going to approach 0.7. We therefore need this legal change so that the autonomous communities can change their deficit target from 0.3 to 0.7. And what if we don't agree on this amendment today? Two fundamental things are happening: the first is that essential public services will be affected by the quality with which they are provided, and the second is that the queue of suppliers will be increased. We will return to the defaults, we will not be able to pay the invoices to the pharmacists, we will not be able to pay the invoices to the education providers, and the insolvencies will spread through the payment chain with the harmful consequences that this has for self-employed and SMEs. And above all, we ourselves would be pushing from this House the breach of the Law of Morosity. We know the importance of the financing mechanisms in our country: the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, the Financial Facility or the recently approved Social Fund, exclusively for social services. There has already been an injection of 20 billion in the first three quarters of 2016 and the last Council of the Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs approved the distribution of 10,489 million, but it remains insufficient. This corresponds to 0.3, but we need an additional 4 billion to reach the 0.7 that the autonomous communities need. But in addition, this is not only so that in 2016 the autonomous communities can provide health, education and dependency services, it is also so that the autonomous communities and local entities can start making their budgets. It is that if we do not amend this organic law, the autonomous communities will have to make their budgets with 0.1, which is the figure that is currently in force; a very narrow figure that will not allow them to finance health, education, social services. We do not want that to happen, and that is why we come here to present this reform, which seeks to ensure that the laziness that has been negotiated in Europe, the 20 billion laziness that has been obtained, can be transferred to the territorial administrations; that the Ministry of Finance meets where it has to meet with the autonomous communities, in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, with the local entities, in the National Council of Local Administration, that they study these 20 billion, that greater flexibility, that they adopt an agreement, that the Council of Ministers approves it and that they bring it to this House, and here we will approve this better fiscal consolidation path for all. Besides... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u9	Your Honor, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please, there is such a noise in this House that it makes it impossible to hear the speaker clearly. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u10	Moreover, the reform proposed today is not a patch. Not to say: look, as the autonomous communities have spent a lot, we are now going to rush into a legal change to give them more funds. No, no, no; this is not in any way a question, it is a question of providing a legal solution so that there will never again be this legal problem that was unpredictable when the law was passed in April; so that no government in office that cannot make a budget is prevented from giving flexibility, from being able to finance the autonomous communities, from being able to finance the local entities. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech in the conviction that today we are going to reach a consensus, we are going to reach an agreement to reform the Stability Act because we are all going to agree that we have to minimise damage, that we have to avoid unnecessary harm to the Spanish, because no Spanish should bear the costs of not having a government in time. We must adopt a reform agreement in this House that will allow us to adequately finance the services to which the Spanish are entitled. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u11	Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. To this end, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u12	Thank you, Madam President. We are debating here today the amendment of the Stability Act mainly because of an error of forecast by the Ministry of Finance, which Mr Montoro leads, but we consider that we are to some extent faced with a political opportunity to review the very law that we bring here to debate. That is why it is important for us to put this debate at the forefront from the outset. We are talking about the Stability Act, we are talking about a principle that has been tried to inculcate and institutionalize to the highest legal rank, as is the Constitution, for a long time. We are talking about the Stability Act, but stability has already been attempted in all the institutional provisions of the European Union. We have recalled this because although many of us were not here, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 was debated in this House; much less the 2012 Fiscal Pact was debated, and the 1997 Stability and Growth Pact was also discussed. All cut by the same pattern, institutionalize an ideology, a certain way of thinking politics and a certain way of limiting the capacity of the State to intervene in the economy. This is what we are discussing, how this Stability Act was the result of the amendment of Article 135 that was made in 2011 by the Socialist Party and the People's Party. In fact, this Stability Act was repetitive because stability itself was, as I have said, present in the institutional treaties. What we have learned for decades is that these laws, these rules and these rules are quite variable and arbitrary. During the last decades and until the beginning of the crisis stability was somewhat fulfilled by the Government of Spain 100 percent but failed, on the other hand, by certain governments such as that of Germany, on four occasions, or that of France, on three occasions, but since they were powerful and rich governments they had no sanction whatsoever. That was the behaviour of stability until the time this law was passed, which we are now amending. However, in a paradoxical decision, the Government of the Socialist Party in 2011 went ahead with the Fiscal Pact and incorporated an amendment in the Constitution from which the law that we come here to discuss today derives; an imposition, let us not forget, of the German financial capital that was made, essentially, to protect international creditors, the same international creditors that during the housing bubble had lent to builders and large companies, had been enriched thanks to the bubble and speculation and that, at that time, they preferred to include in the Spanish Constitution the absolute priority of paying debt interests over any public service. The Stability Act is the direct and immediate continuation of the same legislation. Therefore, the same law that we have the opportunity to amend today is the same law that states that there is an absolute priority on the part of the State to pay the interests of debt rather than health, education, social benefits. Therefore, the intervention that preceded me is hypocritical intervention when speaking not in the voice of social rights, health or education, when it is precisely the whole of the law that is restricting the ability to do politics and the economy in another way. This law has absolutely harmful effects because it limits the capacity of the State, because it affects the most social budget items, because to the extent that it affects the autonomous communities - which mainly sustain this social expenditure - it is there where it does more harm to health, education and social benefits. This is not new, this was already known by the People's Party Government when it made the stability programme and recognized that health, education and social benefits would be the ones that would suffer the most. Moreover, we know perfectly well what it means to affect social benefits, it means to increase the precariousness of life in our country. Right now in our country there are 3,700,000 people who charge less than 300 euros a month, there are 700,000 more people than in 2011. This means that the economic policy of the People's Party, whose backbone is the law we amend today, is not only serving to recover the economy, but is serving to increase inequalities and the vital precariousness of people. We are talking about a law of stability that only contemplates neoliberal dogma according to which the important, most important, priority is to end the deficit above any other consideration. We say that deficit is a tool; it is not bad in itself, but it can be fatal, depending on the origin of what generates that deficit. I give a very simple example of understanding: it is not the same as the deficit that comes from airports without aircraft, from banks without money or from the compensations to Florentino Pérez and his company Castor - which does not generate any kind of economic activity - that the deficit that comes from the economic stimulus, from the investments to generate employment. The second is what we believe is necessary; the first is what the People's Party has accustomed us to over the last few decades, something that abounds even more in the need to change economic policy and the People's Party. In our country we are still far from the euro area average in the tax system. This Stability Act, what it does is walk in the opposite direction to what we should go through. We are 8 points below the euro area average in public revenue on GDP, 6 points less in public expenditure on GDP, far away, and this Stability Act is the only thing that makes the problem worse. In the speech before me, there has been talk of economic recovery, but of a recovery fundamentally restricted to the macro-economic sphere and absolutely doped up by external factors such as the devaluation of the euro or the depreciation or deterioration of the currency, oil prices, absolutely low, and especially, in particular, the billion-dollar injections by the European Central Bank, which, as you know, injects into the financial system the amount of EUR 80 billion per month into the financial system to keep international investors calm. These are the factors that explain the small variations in this economic growth, which does not shift to social benefits, social majority or working people, but rather worsens. That is why - I will finish now - for our group the alternative to what we are discussing here today is not simply the flexibility of some autonomous communities because, of course, we are in favour of greater flexibility, we have always said it and we will defend it in the amendments that we will be tabling from tomorrow, but it is not just a quantitative problem, but a qualitative one. We are defending that the deficit is not the priority, but the priority is the life of people with an adequate policy, of stimulus, of economic growth that, by the way, corrects the deficit, but we do not want to end the deficit by leaving us on the road to the working social majority of this country. That's what we discussed here today, that's the opportunity we have and that's why this law we have to see as an opportunity to turn it around as a sock, which is what we are going to defend, of course, in our group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party raises this proposal as a mere procedure, as a change of office. The Government is asking us for an act of confidence so that when it is in office it can modify the deficit targets, now it seems that by gaining a little more flexibility for the communities, but at other times by reducing that deficit margin. This is too important a law to simply carry out an ex officio procedure and we have no confidence in this Government. This law is the basis of austerity policies, benefit cuts, social rights and public employment, enthusiastically promoted by the People's Party. It is an anti-social, dogmatic and ineffective law, a law that derives from the reform of article 135 of the Constitution agreed by the Socialist Party and the People's Party which, in fact, broke the constitutional pact and showed that the Constitution, sacred and untouchable, is reformable if requested by Merkel but not by the Catalan people. The law is frontally antisocial, unlike the spokeswoman of the People's Party; it sets as an absolute priority the payment of interest and the capital of public debt as a value superior to principles such as justice and equality, which are also trusted by the Constitution. It is dogmatic because it sets arbitrary objectives beyond the objectives of the European Union. Austerity policy is also ineffective. In 2015 the deficit has reached 5% and in debt we are already beating the record of 100 percent. It breaks the paradigm, it breaks its paradigm: more deficit more growth. Why have they failed to meet the deficit target? Because 2015 was an election year. For tax gifts to the highest incomes, not to mention the shameful tax amnesty that allowed defrauders to launder their accounts at a low price. But the question is: can one cope with a 100 per cent debt with 20 per cent unemployment, with low wages, with precariousness, with regressive tax reforms and a reduction in public spending? No, you can't. Because cutting public spending, especially investment spending and social spending, has a negative effect on demand and, together with fiscal counter-reforms, reduces the revenue of public administrations. Its re-centralizing policy is against the self-government of communities and municipalities. There is no real self-government without budgetary autonomy. What is the point, for example, of suffocating municipalities like Barcelona with restrictions on investment in social policies when they have a debt lower than that of the main European cities and only one third of the limit set? What does it make sense when we are still in a social emergency and when inequalities grow? You have centrifuged the deficit to the state, the autonomous communities and the municipalities. The government approves very low targets for communities, which cannot be met, while the central government reserves most of the margin, when communities spend more than 70 per cent of social expenditure and 33 per cent of public expenditure. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u16	Are we not worried about deficit and debt? Of course we're worried. What debt are we worried about? The enormous resources earmarked for the rescue of the motorways, the high-speed stations, the Castor, the 3.5 billion of the electric scam of the costs of transition to competition, the 26.3 billion aid to the bank that we will never see again... and corruption, gentlemen of the People's Party. Corruption also generates debt because with one hand you have cut public services and with another you have protected corruption. And we are concerned about another type of deficit: the social deficit. The fact that in Spain, for example, 1,700,000 more people are poor than in 2009; or child poverty, which generates social debt and transfers inequality and exclusion to future generations. Inequality is growing with unemployment, precariousness and weak public policies. What's our problem? That we enter eight points less than the European average and we are the second country in the European Union, after Ireland, with less public expenditure. That's the problem. Austerity policies are the axis of the People's Party's ideological project: less welfare status and more inequality. But, yes, more centralized state. We cannot miss this opportunity to make a profound change in the law that will put an end to unjust and re-centralizing austerity policies. To put an end once and for all to the hegemony of austerity. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u17	Thank you. Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I share the considerations that have been made by the members of my parliamentary group who have preceded me in the use of the floor, and I will raise some issues in a very synthetic way for such a limited time. We are facing a reform of the law that starts with an express reform of the Constitution, where an order of political preferences was constitutionalized that pre-empted the payment of debt interests to the functioning of the State and the well-being of citizens. You have agreed to remove from the scope of politics the main political instrument that has any government, which is the General Budgets of the State, and to put the interests of financial capital first. And not content with that, the People's Party government developed it in 2012 with a bill with a resounding and absolutely false name in relation to the objectives it said it was pursuing: the Budget Stability and Financial Sufficiency Act. Do you know why that name hides intentions other than those it claims to pursue? Because it only looks at the fiscal problem of this country from a single perspective, the prospect of spending, and hides the other side of the problem, the problem of income. If you are so concerned about budgetary stability and financial sufficiency, look at what is happening on the revenue side and you will see the enormous potential there to carry the inks on budgetary stability and financial sufficiency; look at the revenue side and you will see that we are in a situation where the structural deficit of public revenue in this country is seven points below, in terms of gross domestic product, the European average. That is where they have to look for the responsibilities for financial insufficiency and not for the use they have given to the limited resources made by the autonomous communities and local authorities, which curiously are the institutions that have suffered the most from the consequences of budgetary austerity. Administrations that you say are now going to launch an oxygen ball but that will quickly become a rope as soon as you have to apply the budget cuts in the structural spending to which you have committed, if you come to the government, for the years 2017 and 2018. On the other hand, Minister, you have not sent an extension of the State's general budgets to Brussels, what you have done is to send extended budgets in their implementation and not in the budget. You have consolidated 3 billion cuts that have occurred in this country over the past year, and this is much more serious. If you are so concerned about budgetary and financial stability, Minister, explain to us why in 2015 it implemented a tax reform of the IRPF which resulted in a reduction in income of 2.3% lower than in the previous year. To take measures against budgetary stability in favour of budgetary and financial austerity and at the same time to say that it is being defended is a rather schizophrenic behaviour. If you are so concerned about budgetary stability and financial sufficiency, please explain why in 2015 you promoted a change in corporate tax that has resulted in a misadjustment in terms of a uniform rate of 44.3% compared to the previous year. By the way, a government that next Thursday is going to ask us to help it repeal itself because what they are trying to do is to reverse the reforms they promoted just a year ago. We are faced with a policy of manifest irresponsibility with regard to the autonomous communities and local authorities, a irresponsibility that has been openly expressed to it by all the presidents of the autonomous communities, both governed by their political forces and by other different ones, and which in some way prevents the provision of services to support citizenship, social expenditure, under the necessary conditions. That is why my group - and I conclude with that - refuses to accept this fiscal framework. We denounce the budgetary rigour that is being applied, we call for the reform of article 135 of the Constitution and we will put forward amendments to ensure that this does not go forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u19	Thank you very much. In turn, Mrs Asian González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wanted to express my surprise at what was said by the people who preceded me in the sedition that I was convinced that they agreed to pay the providers of the autonomous communities and that the services provided by the autonomous communities in education and health by the local entities would continue to be properly financed. It seems that this had been expressed to the minister himself in the process of this law. It wasn't like that. Looks like there's been a last-minute change and I'm surprised. Here we are not having a debate on the principle of the world, but we are talking about whether or not the autonomous communities are financed by an additional 4 billion, funding that Europe has allowed us to make. It is a unique article, very clear and simple. Do we give autonomous communities and local entities more funding to enable them to provide these services or do we not give it to them? That is the debate on the reform we have here today. I was also surprised by the lack of rigour in the data presented. What funding has the Ministry of Finance made for social services in times of crisis? In 2007, the deficit of the autonomous communities was 2.3 billion. What is the deficit that is now financing the Ministry of Finance, the effort of all Spaniards, to the autonomous communities? More than 17,000 Therefore, to say that no funding has been given in times of crisis for essential services I think it is to lack reality, data. I am not going to enter into an in-depth debate on the origin or otherwise of the Stability Act, as it is not today's debate. I insist that today's debate is whether we better finance the autonomous communities and local entities worth 4 billion, according to what Europe has allowed us to do. But since the concept of budgetary stability has been discussed, I would like to make something clear, just as clear as the single article we are debating today with this reform. The Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act develops the Constitution and, with it, we anticipate the fiscal pact. But that tax pact has it all over Europe. Do we all agree in this House that we are in Europe in the euro area or is there some group that wants to get us out of Europe, even - who knows - from the Western world? If that's the case, let him say it explicitly. It is in your right, but you have to state it: I do not want to be in Europe, I have another position. Because the position of the Stability Pact is nothing other than that of the European Social Democracy and all the European Socialists. All the European Socialists believe that they belong to the euro area by signing a social pact with which they agree. Can you disagree? We can, of course, but we have to say this clearly, quite clearly: I do not agree and I want to leave the euro area. [[Applauds]] But let us be very clear that if we do not accept the rules of a European stability pact to hold a currency, of course, we will not be able to enter that currency. I hope that from here on we will be able to reach the necessary consensus, because, as I said in the discussion, establishing extra procedural harm to the Spaniards is not justified under any circumstances. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Speaker of the People's Party, make it very clear that our group does not intend to leave the Western world, among other things because neither is it very clear to us how that mechanism would be done to leave the Western world. What we are doing here is discussing the Stability Act and what you have done in your intervention has been resorting to what is called the fallacy of the false dilemma, not once but several times. The fallacy of the false dilemma consists in presenting two options as the only alternatives, discarding all the others. We have seen many in this House lately. Recently, we have seen it in the Socialist Party, according to which it was necessary to choose between the People's Party government or third elections, when in reality there was the option of an alternative government, which had already been tasked with crushing as a political option, but there was the alternative. Madam Speaker of the People's Party, you know very well that this is not about flexibility for the Autonomous Communities or not flexibility for the Autonomous Communities. We agree with the flexibility for the autonomous communities, in what we do not agree with is the framework that you impose and on which you do not want to debate, even though this procedure enables that debate. We are not just talking about the amendment you are submitting, we are talking about amending a law that is likely to change any comma of that law in this parliamentary procedure. So, don't worry, because in the term of flexibility to the autonomous communities we will vote in favour, there is no doubt. But we, in this procedure, are debating the whole of the Stability Act as an opportunity to question the economic policy of the People's Party. I'll introduce you to some alternatives that I can think of soon. The abusive sanctions that you included in the Stability Act could be removed. It's not done, they haven't introduced it. Why? Because you don't want to. Local entities and entities of the autonomous communities could be allowed to use the surplus, when they did, to improve social benefits, improve health services, education; moreover, local entities make the public services closest to citizenship, such as garbage collection or the recruitment of public personnel. But you have not included that because you do not want to, not because we accept your framework. We could talk about a stimulus program, instead of the dogma of fiscal consolidation, but we're not doing it because you don't want to. You have simply tried to bring us a small modification, but we are faced with the opportunity to talk about the whole of the law, although you weigh it, because we are here as a result of an error of the Ministry of Finance. But mistakes are also paid for. And one of the small details that we are going to pay for is that we have the opportunity to discuss absolutely everything that this procedure enables, not what you just want to put in place. By the way, we want flexibility for the autonomous communities because the starting point, which seems to have been forgotten, that starting point that you demonized, that 0.3, you also imposed. Therefore, we are the ones who maintain the coherence that economic policy can be done in another way; we do not believe ourselves to be the neo-liberal dogma of fiscal consolidation, that dogma that was seen in the previous intervention, according to which first and foremost is the payment of debt interest and first and foremost it is ending the public deficit above anything else; above health, education or public employment. You have talked about some data and I am not in favour of Congress's debates about entering into a data war, especially because I am aware, as an economist, that data and statistics can be tortured until they confess what is necessary, but I believe that no one outside this House - even no one within this House - really believes that the People's Party has not cut back on health, education, social services, public employees and a number of social games. I think it's impossible for anyone to create the People's Party story. [[Applauds]] We've been consistent. We have always criticized the dogma of fiscal consolidation and what we are discussing here is precisely whether that is the most appropriate route and route for our economy. We say no; you say yes. It's legitimate. But look at a historical detail; stability has been embedded in the European institutional framework for decades and it is this stability that has brought us the greatest financial and European crisis in history. I think that's something we should be very aware of. With this neoliberal dogma, the Spanish economy not only suffers, but when it grows in small quantities, in terms of gross domestic product, it does so either by exogenous factors or under an absolutely fragile model. Last year, the autonomous communities grew in macroeconomic terms, but they did so propelled by two particular sectors: construction and tourism. This is the model of all life; the model that brought us the real estate crisis; the model that brought us the speculative crisis; the model that has brought us here, increasing, yes, labour exploitation, precariousness and, ultimately, the worst material conditions for life. We have always defended that there is an alternative and, however much the People's Party does not like, that alternative exists. Let us therefore get out of the false dilemmas and accept that beyond the economic policy of the People's Party there is an alternative economic policy. They may not like it, but we are the one that defends the same or, above all, much more rigorously than we are seeing in the last years of economic disaster because of the People's Party government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u23	I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in one minute I will say that we cannot share the euphoria and self-satisfaction expressed by the advocate of this bill, because it is clear that either someone does not read the press or someone does not know the numbers of workers in poverty or someone does not understand the failure of the austerid policies of the European Union, which is why the changes that are taking place and that are the expression of a failure have occurred. However, on this occasion there is an opportunity for the autonomous communities in particular to see their financing improved by relaxing their debt targets, which is why, while maintaining a frontal confrontation with what they defend their austerity policies, we will vote in favour of admission to the procedure of the bill. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u25	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u26	Thank you, Madam President. This is important, because sometimes it is said: there will be no state budgets. No, the important thing is not the budgets but the spending ceiling. If there is no spending ceiling, if there is not what we are going to approve today, what is not going to be the budget of 8 thousand municipalities and 17 autonomous communities. What does that mean? That investments in this country stop and that thousands of people are going to lose their jobs because what is going to happen is regular spending, so we have to pass this bill. This is said by a canary that belongs to a community that has met deficit targets since 2012, and when adjustments are made, not by governments or communities, but by citizens. My community is the worst funded, so for the Canary Islands it is urgent and priority to approve this initiative that allows us to have these added revenues to cover the basic health and education systems that the financing system, which is unfair and insolidary, is not fulfilling with the Canary Islands at this time. That is why we will support this proposal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. The purpose of this bill is to urgently adapt the mandates of the Council of the European Union to the reality of our country, which has been in office for more than three hundred days with a government in office and which needs to enable a legal instrument, which is the one that needs to be reformed in this plenary session of Congress. I support this consideration with the peace of mind that it gives me to vote against the express reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, but I am aware that Spain today needs financing measures that will enable the economic recovery that must be translated into more jobs and better essential services to continue. All autonomous communities, uniquely Asturias, need the constitutional principles of equality and solidarity between territories to be a reality as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will logically vote in favour of taking into account the amendment of the Budget Stability Act, simply to enable a government in office, after three hundred days - and we are all responsible - so that it can carry out what the Council of the European Union passed last August. As a Union of the Navarro People, what we will logically defend is that its application in the Foral Community of Navarra is subject to the third final provision of the Law on Budgetary Stability itself, in accordance with Article 64 of the Lorafna and, of course, to the provisions of the economic agreement between the State and the Foral Community of Navarra. In the last few seconds I would like to point out that after what happened this weekend in the town of Alsasua, in the Foral Community of Navarre, in the savage attack on a lieutenant and a sergeant of the Civil Guard and their respective partners, the Union of the Navarro People expects the early recovery of these four people and transmits our support to the State Security Forces and Bodies, especially the Civil Guard, which does a magnificent job throughout Spain and also in the Foral Community of Navarre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u32	Our position is clearly contrary to our position against austerity policies, because we understand that the PP has limited itself to making cuts, has not addressed the structural transformation needed by the economy, public services have not been guaranteed, has not relied on decent job creation and has not addressed the much-needed tax reform. All of this, combined with an obsessive deficit control based solely on these cuts and whose distribution has also been unbalanced; there has been a greater burden of deficit control in the autonomous communities and even the situation different from all of them has not been taken into account. The total debt in both the Basque Autonomous Community and in Nafarroa is barely around 20%, compared to that of other communities that duplicate it. We therefore believe that we still have room for further debt. Someone might think that it would be good if the deficit target could be adjusted upwards, it might seem that the Government would like to move from coffee to other formulations for everyone. Giving for good either of the two hypotheses, in addition to adventurous, would be to admit the bottom of the Stability Law and we will not do so. From Euskal Herria Bildu - and with this I conclude - we defend to be able to decide ourselves and ourselves on our policies of indebtedness, on the rhythms and priorities, and therefore we will stand against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u33	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Candela Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the minute of glory we have I will try to say two things that we consider important. We are faced with the example of the poor democratic culture of the People's Party, speeding up the deadlines for processing and avoiding the debate in conditions. We're back before he brings her in, and now they're coming from the homeland. I'd ask them for a little shame. The second question is that this law is the development of article 135, this law is the law of cuts, it is the law of subjecting people's lives to creditors. With this law you attack the autonomous communities by blackmail and pressure and trying to destabilize them. We want to tell you one thing from Compromís, from the Valencian Government and from our people: despite their attacks, even though they give us credit for our money, we will continue to rescue people and work for the tranquility and future of the Valencian people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u36	Thank you very much, President. The Catalan Democratic Party will vote against this consideration for a number of reasons. The first is that they present it two weeks after a hypothetical completion of the legislature, when they could have raised it much longer. They know that since August, the legislature began a few weeks ago and could have given more parliamentary procedure. The second question is that we do not agree with your account because it is not a true account. The spokesman for the People's Party said that by doing so we were able to give greater flexibility to the deficit of the autonomous communities. If the Government of the People's Party had respected the first transitional provision of the Budget Stability Act when they approved the 2016 budget a few months ago in this House, the deficit allocated to the autonomous communities would not be 0.3% nor the 0.7% they intend to allocate now; it would be 0.9%. If you had complied with the first transitional provision, which you had an obligation to comply with, this greater margin would already have been met by the autonomous communities from the beginning of the year. Moreover, you would have two tenths more than you are proposing at this time. Therefore, we will not support the consideration of this bill. We are going to table amendments, because the narrative they are trying to spread to society is not the real one. They go up here to the rostrum and say they're going to approve more funding for local corporations. Minister, are local corporations going to be assigned a higher deficit target? Correct your spokesman. Local corporations have surplus. Therefore, they cannot go up here and say that with this modification local corporations will have more funding. What more funding are local corporations going to have? None. It is a story as false as the one they are raising in relation to the autonomous communities. They say that if we oppose this process we will be opposed to the autonomous communities being able to finance their services. No, no, If the People's Party government had complied with the law that we passed, today the autonomous communities without doing anything would have at least 0.9% deficit target and you would have an obligation to finance it through the FLA. They do not do their duty; they do not do what is right for them and now in a boast of generosity, as Europe has given them a greater margin, a part of this margin - nor what would be right for them - they want to allocate it to the autonomous communities, and they do so two days away. They are going to make an emotional blackmail to some members of this House and to the autonomous communities saying that if they do not vote in favour they will not have this greater margin. We want the margin that we have, the margin that we had on 31 December last year, and that they comply with the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Azpiazu Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u38	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Apart from the position taken by our parliamentary group in relation to this proposal for a law, and regardless of the treatment that such a regulation deserves from a strictly institutional and economic point of view, the fact is that it is an initiative that suffers from serious defects, both in its formal approach and from the point of view of its content. My group is going to stick to the reform of the proposed law, which is a very timely issue. Our group has expressed itself on many occasions on the subject of stability in a clear and forceful way, but for us this is not the time to do so. Let us talk about the reform proposed by the Government. We shall say first of all that we understand that this is an extemporary proposal, Minister. After two failed investment sessions the Government has already been in office for ten months and while the application of Article 15 of the Budget Stability Act alleged in the proposed law is only possible - as mentioned here - from 8 August, which is the date of revision of deficit and debt targets by the European Union, the truth is that to be a rule of timeless scope it could have been raised long before and in another way, since the problems that are wanted to be solved were known for a long time. In fact, Minister, this proposal today may be unnecessary if, as is foreseeable, there is a government in a few days. On the other hand, it is also in our view a technically inadequate proposal. Certainly incorporating such a provision - which must be regarded as an absolute exception in the situation of the Government in office - through an amendment to a sectoral organic law, such as Law 2/2012, is, in our view, a considerable error. If this is done in this way in the area of budgetary and financial stability, it would be possible to do the same with other substantive laws that may require government action when there are periods with the Government in office. This, in our view, distorts the very concept of the Government in office, and we therefore believe that it would be more technically correct to do so through the development of article 101.2 of the Constitution, in furtherance of article 21 of the Government Act. This, in our view, would be the natural thing: to discuss openly how far a functioning Government can go and not only to establish what budgetary stability measures a government can take in that situation. From another equally technical point of view, it is also not appropriate for a blank cheque to be given under section 15 of the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act so that a government in office may have more powers, even than a government that is not, and may review the deficit and debt limits already set by Congress for the current year, something that the Stability Act does not provide for a government that is not in office either. For this reason, it would be normal to authorize or not by a single law an alteration of the limits of 2016 without talking about the government in office, which is not the central issue of this rule. In any case, Organic Law 2/2012 could be definitively amended by a proposal for a law to allow for changes in the current year's deficit and debt limits when the appropriate circumstances are given, which may be those of the European Union now split or any other, such as excess collection. A rule like that which is now being adopted by virtue of this proposal is therefore, Minister, in our view, technically highly objectionable. On the other hand, we believe that this is also an unsafe proposal. As a result, there is a contradiction between the general rules of what a functioning Government can do, over which many doctrinal ink rivers have already flowed and how many judgements of the Supreme not without controversy and particular votes, regulated by the Government Act 50/1997, and what a functioning Government can do in terms of budgetary stability and deficit and debt limits. This creates formal legal uncertainty in the application of the laws of the Governments in office that would have been arranged and exceeded if the special case had been taken over by the general legal uncertainty of the Government, or simply exempted for the current year, and at one time the ability of the Government in office to review the deficit and debt limits. It is also, in our view, a confusing proposal, Minister. A proposal of this kind is confusing by linking a decision of the European Union to the situation of a government in office and doing so in a structural way in a sectoral law that is not adequate for that purpose. There may be cases where the deficit and debt need to be reviewed for reasons that are not derived from European decisions and have to be assessed at a time when a government is in office or not, but this is not provided for in this proposal, making the text again confusing and inconsistent with the underlying will. In fact, the text of the title of the seventh additional provision, now written with its own content, does not coincide: the title speaks of establishing and fixing and the text speaks of revising. Furthermore, the last point, apart from the proposal, does not make it clear whether the non-inclusion of the non-financial expenditure limit of article 30 of Organic Law 2/2012 referred to in article 15 of the same rule and which is now intended to activate with a government in office is to be understood as unnecessary or as something whose inclusion prevents the approval of the expenditure ceiling and the preparation of budgets. It is to be assumed that this will be the last, but it should be made clearer. Finally, it is an unnecessary proposal. If what is intended to preserve is that, among other things, the autonomous communities may have a higher deficit and debt limit in 2016 and at the same time draft their budgets for the next year, the proposal should have obviated that the Government was in office and should have regulated it on a point-by-point basis: either by amending Organic Law 2/2012 in a stable way or by regulating the situation exclusively for the years 2016 and 2017. In conclusion, Minister, a question which certainly does not sound strange to you. In addition to that, from the Basque Group we want to make it clear that this proposal for a law should not affect the Basque model of establishing deficit and debt limits in accordance with the Economic Concert. As you know and well know, and according to the third final provision of Organic Law 2/2012, under that foral regime, the application to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of the provisions of this law shall be without prejudice to the provisions of the Law on Economic Concert. In this regard, Article 62 of the current standard of concertation provides for the Joint Committee on Concertation to agree on commitments in cooperation and coordination in the field of budgetary and financial stability. From this perspective, our group wishes to make it clear that the possible adoption of this bill should not alter the binding bilaterality between the Basque Government and the Government of the State in order to promote these annual deficit and public debt agreements between the two institutions, i.e. the possibilities of acting under article 15 for the setting of deficit and debt limits in no way must alter the Basque economic-financial relationship model towards the State in this area. The potential of a functioning Government will be without prejudice to the capabilities that must exist for appropriate revisions towards outlying communities. Only under these conditions must neutrality be understood with the model of relationship that exists between the State and the outlying communities, as I said. With all these reservations and nuances made, our group is going to vote in favour of this proposal for a law, because we believe that, although legally it has imperfections - as I have mentioned - and even comes at a time when it is practically unnecessary for it to pass, it can be positive for the autonomous communities to close this exercise and draw up their budgets for the next year with a little more laziness. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u40	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of the European Union decided in August this year to initiate the excessive deficit procedure framework, a review of what should be the deficit targets for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, setting limits different from those foreseen by the Spanish Government. Now what happens is that we have to touch and retouch what is approved, because it does not conform to what Europe says. That is to say that Spain, the Government of the Spanish State, as you always know, Mr Montoro, is failing. No news, it's always like that. Next year, the figure offered by the State Government to Brussels is 3.6%, which would exceed the planned 3.1%. That is why the next Government, if there is a next Government, will have to make an additional half-point adjustment. This implies in the immediate future, almost around the corner, significant cuts that can be around €5 billion, although in the words of the Government the cuts become adjustments. In fact, the middle classes and the working classes already know the price of their adjustments, that is, of their cuts, because in the end we have paid their cuts. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the rich are becoming richer and the poor are becoming poorer. Social cuts worth EUR 5 billion, i.e. a real boulder back to the welfare state. That 5 billion euro cut is so, among other things, because, in view of an immediate electoral process that we had last year for these times - I am speaking, as I said, of last year, when we planned to have an election; you have ended up being two, let's hope there are not three - you have dedicated yourselves to lowering taxes - IRPF and Societies - for clearly, as I say, electoral purposes. That is, with everyone's money, you paid for the election campaign with money you didn't have. Tax cuts that have led to loss of income - as the minister himself and the ministry admit - for an amount equivalent to almost 7 billion euros and obviously from Esquerra Republicana we are convinced that the surprises have not yet ended. It is up to me, as Esquerra, to denounce what the Spanish State Government is doing because, ultimately, the Spanish State Government is the main breach of its laws, of its own laws, starting with the Budget Stability Act and, ultimately, because of the need for a differentiated, equitable distribution of deficit targets. You say some things in the laws that then when they apply them or put them into practice they always leave their hand; and as far as this law is concerned, they leave their hand with the autonomous communities. Indeed, in the early years, the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration decided that the adjustment had to be made by the autonomous communities and local authorities and that the General Administration of the State would already do so later. It has not yet done so because they thought that the economic situation would be different. That is to say, what we have said to the point of satiety: to centrifuge the deficit and to make it essentially incumbent on the autonomous communities and local authorities the need to meet the deficit targets. Unlike what is happening in Europe, while Europe negotiates a methodology and the deficit targets are set, Spain never does this, it pacts what is agreed, doors to inside pure arbitrariness. The deficit targets that you impose - the People's Party in this case is the party that supports the incumbent government and the government in office - according to Squerra Republicana are politically and ethically illegitimate, and retort public administrations - in this case the autonomous communities and local authorities - which are the ones that provide direct services to the citizenry rather than making disappear, for example, some unskilled public administrations, and I think that a few ministries, such as Health, Culture, as well as the parliaments, disappear. Secondly, what else does the State do? To spend, or to remember that it spends, that it's different. What he does is decide he spends more, but what does he do? It transfers spending to the autonomous communities. For example, the 1% increase in the salary of public workers or, if the minister wants it, I give him more concrete examples. The topic of the medicine in relation to hepatitis C: accumulated expenditure of hepatitis C for the Generalitat of Catalonia, November 2014-August 2016, 230 million euros; expenditure assumed entirely by the Generalitat of Catalonia and which the State will not fund at the moment or which does not finance. Another specific case, the cancer treatment for the year 2016, period from January to August: 28 million euros; expenditure assumed, without additional amount contributed by the State, by the Generalitat of Catalonia. These are problems that affect people with names and surnames, specific people and necessary measures, but the State does not fund them. What else does the state government do? It prevents the autonomous communities from earning income. What are you doing? Very easy: boycotting the revenue measures that the Government of Catalonia develops within the framework of its competences. For example, the tax on bank deposits, aircraft gas emissions, nuclear energy; attempts to obtain resources provided for in the statute of autonomy, legitimate resources that you avoid without even analyzing their adequacy and convenience. They're running everything, obviously against who? In the face of this army of robes and fists, which is the Constitutional Court, who, as it could not otherwise be, suspend cautiously as a result of the final decision, yes - and they will tell me what the law says - but it is good to remember that this court only resolves quickly what affects the Government of the Generalitat, the Government of Catalonia and the Parliament of Catalonia. In the meantime, amparo resources affecting private citizens are rotted in their drawers, because they care little or nothing about the violation of the fundamental rights of citizens. In short, you impose a spending ceiling on us, distribute deficit targets in an unbalanced and non-differentiated way. Man, it wouldn't be too much if we started doing it differently, it's recommended by an independent body like Airef, and in the meantime, the debt goes off. John Adams said that there are two ways of debt to one country: one is through the sword and the other through the debt, that debt that has reached historical peaks and that thanks to its policy will cost God and help to reduce it. It owes that it currently exceeds one hundred percent of GDP and to which in calculations published by the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority itself, Airef, the Spaniards will have to devote exactly one whole year of work per person in order to be able to pay all the public debt. This is then told to the 16-year-olds, those you do not want to vote for, because it is they, that generation, who will have to take charge of this debt. By the way, the second method, that of the sword, you also use and practice it if we meet the stratospheric defense budget that has generated more than 30 billion euros of debt... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u41	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. [[Pause]] Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u42	This stratospheric defence budget has generated more than 30 billion euros of debt in armaments expenditure. Yes, surely, again, after this bill, they will get out of the way, they will talk again about the new autonomous financing model. By the way, another legal breach. In short, Esquerra Republicana is already making progress. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how many Members of this House have ever worked in a company, many of them, but do you imagine a company that does not make important decisions in a whole year? Now apply it to one of the most advanced and richest nations on this planet. Apply this, for example, to 30% of health workers who live in permanent precarious conditions - nurses, doctors, hospital staff - who have been in the interim for years and who have been out of contract and leave with one hand in front and one hand behind. Our labor relations system is broken, but we've been looking at our navel for 300 days. Apply it, for example, to high school teachers, who struggle without means every day so that no pupil is left behind and with absolutely ridiculous salaries. We are the most talented country in Europe but the parties in this House continue to look at the navel. Apply it, for example, to the millions of young people of my generation who start a contract on Monday and have to finish it on Friday. 30-year-olds who don't have kids because they can't afford it. We have Europe's record in precariousness and one of the lowest fertility rates in the world, but we, the courageous leaders of this House, keep looking at our navel. Apply it to the millions of women who live condemned to inequality and do not need to go very far, here have many journalists who spend the day here and who know that if they suddenly decide to have a child and make a stop in their career then they will be very difficult to reintegrate. We are in the prehistory of conciliation policies, but the gentlemen of this House prefer to keep looking at their navels. Apply it to the thousands of self-employed and entrepreneurs with brilliant ideas to create businesses and new jobs. We saw it recently at the South Summit with Albert Rivera in which they told us: We have many projects but it is that the Administration does not stop blocking us, we do not stop encountering obstacles to create new projects and new companies that, in reality, will be the basis of the welfare society in the future. We are losing millions of projects that would, as I say, be the basis of the welfare society in the future. But in this House we continue to look at our navel. Apply it to the more than 3 million long-term unemployed who have been knocking on useless doors for eight years, doing courses that are useless and, despite everything, keeping the spirit alive and hoping that one day they will find a job. Every year we waste billions of euros - I repeat, billions - on training policies that are useless, that do not meet the needs of our unemployed, but the gentlemen of this House prefer to keep looking at their navel. The issue we are addressing here today, the reform of the Budget Stability Act, is another consequence of the inability of the old parties to understand the sign of the times. Times are changing, said Bob Dylan's song, but the old games still don't understand those changes. The old parties must understand that this Parliament is not black or white, it is no longer red and blue Spain, the colour palette has widened and you must understand it. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the absolute majority have died, at least for a good season, and you have a responsibility to speak with those of us sitting here and there and with all of us in this House, but not only to activate the investiture next week, but for all the necessary reforms to be passed over the next few weeks and to pass all the necessary laws to put this country into operation. I am a new Member of Parliament who has just completed his first year in politics and may not be in a position to give too much advice, but I will allow myself to give you one: Either you stop looking at your navel and raise your eyes a little or you will do a lot of damage to this country and on the way to yourself too. Mr Sánchez, Mrs Díaz, wherever you are, with all due respect for your acronyms, I have to tell you that all those people you were talking about don't care if you have a majority of delegates on the territorial council, on the executive council, on the national council or in your community of neighbors, the people who worry about you are the solutions. Many of them were in the common space of consensus that we found in the agreements with the Socialist Party and the People's Party, that is a base, it is small, but it is a basis of principle of change to move forward in this country. You could have presided over a different government, but thanks to the great strategists and statesmen sitting next to you, today we have a Parliament with a stronger majority of the People's Party. They could have presented an alternative Government, but the problem is that it would have been with nineteenth-century ideas to respond to the problems of the twenty-first century. That is what the secessionist nationalism of Mr Rufián, who is in this House, represents, and many of the populist policies that Podemos represents. Be brave and take the abstention so that Spain can get started. This is going to be a free parliament. We don't like Mr Rajoy either, I can assure you, but we still don't like politicians to keep looking at their navels while Spain suffers and while Spain gets embarrassed. Finally, I would like to tell you that we are going to vote in favour of this amendment of the Budget Stability Act because we have no alternative. As mentioned in previous interventions, if this law is not passed, the autonomous communities will no longer be able to provide the basic services they manage such as health and education. We will therefore approve this reform. As I said before, Bob Dylan's famous song, times are changing - the times they are a changing - but it seems that some in this House still don't know. In a stanza of the song it said: '·Come Senators, Congressmen / please hear the call / don't stay on the threshold / don't block the entrance' because times are changing and it's time to change. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Saura García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to support the timely amendment of the 2012 Budget Stability Act because what is basically about is that the government can update and bring deficit targets here to Parliament so that the autonomous communities can make their budget for the coming year and, therefore, education, health and dependency are not cut; that is, that the welfare state is not cut this year and, above all, next year. Therefore, when we vote no to this - on time - amendment of the 2012 Stability Act, we are voting against the autonomous communities being able to make their budget and also against the growth of the welfare state next year. In fact, the Autonomous Communities are waiting as November water for us to approve this amendment in order to make their budget. This is what the autonomous communities are waiting for. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, you know perfectly well that this 2012 Budget Stability Act is not our Budget Stability Act. The Socialist Parliamentary Group voted against this law mainly for two reasons: because it seems to us to be a conservative, neoliberal fiscal stability law. And why? Mainly because budgetary stability is confused with the cuts in the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax balance is made up of two elements: revenue and expenditure. If public revenues are greater, if they grow, public spending also grows. What happens is that a spending rule is applied restrictively in this law. This issue, a restrictive application of the expenditure rule, and the fact that the current government in the last year and a half has given the highest incomes 1.5 points of GDP, EUR 16 billion, these two reasons effectively explain a minimum social state, explain a minimum welfare state and explain austerity. Austerity, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the reasons why inequality is increasing. Austerity. But, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against inequality is not, from our point of view, done with more indebtedness, because that is more austerity in the future. What we think is that we must fight austerity fundamentally by increasing public revenues. The keynesianism of the 21st century is public revenue, ladies and gentlemen. This will effectively help to avoid such austerity. We believe that this Budget Stability Act needs to be amended in depth, but it cannot be amended in twenty-four hours. If it is not done slowly, a rapid change could, for example, lead to a problem of paying public pensions, it could create a problem in the public pension system that already has a very big problem, as the Government itself recognizes in the budget plan when it talks about a deficit for this year of 1.7 in relation to GDP. Therefore, to amend the Budget Stability Act we say yes, in depth; but one cannot make a dip that can go against the welfare state. Mr Garzón is not in plenary now, but here he who has not allowed an alternative government to Mr Rajoy and the People's Party was, among other things, Mr Garzón voting against a socialist to be president of the government, voting against Pedro Sánchez to be president of the government. Therefore, here, who has prevented only a government of transformation and of change has been precisely Podemos and in particular, because he has intervened this afternoon, Mr Garzón. We are in favour of amending that Budget Stability Act. A law of budgetary stability throughout the cycle as understood by social democracy, first of all, to support, to improve, to ensure the welfare state; secondly, because if there is no economic sustainability of public accounts, the problem we can have is to stay out of the euro. All countries have to comply with the rules of budgetary stability. And, I insist, the balance is two components, income and expenditure. The Spanish right has opted for a minimum social state by reducing income and also reducing expenditure. In the last budget plan, the government tells us that this year public revenues will end below 38% of GDP. The European Union to Eight, the richest countries in the European Union, has public revenues in relation to GDP of 48%, more than 10 points. What do you mean, there's been no cuts in the welfare state? If we take into account in absolute terms the discretionary spending of the Government, social public spending has decreased; if we measure it in terms of GDP, there is no doubt, education, health, dependence, housing and social policy have decreased. They have declined in terms of GDP because, I insist, the tax balance is income and expenditure, and this government has given in the last year and a half EUR 17 billion through corporate tax and through the IRPF to the richest 10%. Therefore, of course, budgetary stability is necessary, another budgetary stability. But I tell you more, if the tax rules are not complied with, if there is no budgetary stability, there will never be a single fiscal policy in Europe, there will never be a single budget in Europe. A necessary condition for a single budget in Europe, for a single fiscal policy, is that there are fiscal rules that lead us to such convergence by all countries. Therefore, yes to an in-depth amendment of the Budget Stability Act, yes to another way of budgeting, yes to another fiscal policy, of course it does. It would have been very positive if Podemos and Mr Garzón had voted in favour of that other fiscal policy, it would have been very good for him in the country, but they chose another way. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of the Government bringing to Parliament an update on the deficit targets. That is what we are amending today, which the government can bring here - something else is whether Parliament accepts it or not - deficit targets. From there the autonomous communities will be able to make the budget. Let us not deceive ourselves, to vote against this today is to vote against the sustainability of the welfare state, to vote against the budget of the autonomous communities, to vote against education, health and dependence. Of course we are going to vote in favour and of course the sooner we change the Budget Stability Act. Not only do we say this from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but so does the Fiscal Authority. The Fiscal Authority says that this Budget Stability Act needs to be changed. They have changed it from the Government to active and passive more than a dozen times, have failed and are arbitrarily interpreting it. In fact, it was set as an objective in 2020 to reach a public debt in relation to GDP of 60% and to account for 100% of GDP. Of course we have to change the Budget Stability Act, that is what the Fiscal Authority says, and that is what we said in the debate on the Budget Stability Act, which was so hard that it was not going to be implemented and that that was bad for economic activity and for Spain's credibility and solvency before the European institutions. The debt target has not been met, the deficit targets have not been met in any year, the expenditure rule has not been met and fiscal consolidation has not been achieved in the end. As I said, we are close to 2020 and our debt is not even close to 60% of GDP, but we are at 100% of GDP. Therefore, of course we have to change it, because even the Fiscal Authority tells us that we have to change this law of budgetary stability, a conservative and neoliberal law with which we do not agree, because what it essentially seeks is a minimum social state. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u47	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, the Body for the Amendment of the Organization Act 5/1985 of 19 June 1985 of the General Electoral Regime, for the subject of the Automated Call for Elections under the Fifth Paragraph of Article 99 of the Constitution. [[File number 122/000037]] - OF THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 5/1985 OF 19 JUNE, OF THE GENERAL ELECTORAL REGIME, TO REDUCE THE DURATION OF ELECTORAL FIELDS IN THE CASES OF AUTOMATICAL DISOLUTION OF CAMERAS, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 99.5 OF THE SPANISH CONSTITUTION. [[File number 122/000019]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u48	A new item has been added to the agenda and will be discussed in conjunction with item 2. We continue with the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic amendment to the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, for the assumption of automatic call for elections under the provisions of article 99, paragraph 5, of the Constitution, which will be discussed cumulatively with the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, for the presentation of its initiative and, where appropriate, for the setting of a position, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the saying goes, prevention is better than cure. Although it seems a lie, today we continue, incomprehensiblely, without the guarantee that a third election will not be held. Of course, my party trusts that that will not happen. To prevent these from being celebrated on December 25th, on Christmas Day, we presented on September 2nd a Loreg modification that would prevent it, reducing the electoral campaign by half. Finally, the Government is proposing to us a more technically complex legislative solution to avoid this same nonsense, to which I am already announcing that we will vote in favour, although tomorrow we will record those amendments which we believe will improve the text that the Government has brought us. As I say, ladies and gentlemen, we would be seriously wrong if we were to have a third election. But it will commit an even greater irresponsibility who intends to take advantage of this legislature, if it is finally started, to feed the confrontation, the revenge, the demagogy, the populism, the division and the fragmentation of Spain. If in the end this legislature, ladies and gentlemen, will only serve to legislate against the government, to divide Spanish society, to desist the efforts that have brought us out of the crisis or not to solve the fundamental problems of this country, let us prepare ourselves because the legislature will not be able to last long, and what today might seem like a relief, an act of responsibility of all, would soon become a condemnation for all Spaniards. My party, Unión del Pueblo Navarro, does not believe, as Mr Sánchez maintained in the frustrating last debate of investiture, that the politicians we are represented here are like water and oil, some water and others oil, that we cannot mingle to work together for a better Spain. We do not share that solemn statement of prejudice. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not share a unique account of the past - each one has his own and has lived his own stories - but that should not incapacitate us to build a future with the help of everyone. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we can in this immediate future, which seems to be already clear, look back and be proud of the work that we are doing from now on among all and for all Spaniards. For us, for the Navarro People's Union, it won't stay. By the way, live honorably with the Civil Guard in Alsasua and throughout Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u51	Good afternoon, again. In this case, and on the assumption that there would be a new election, we have no problem accepting a global reduction in campaign time, because it would be wrong to continue doing this to people also on Christmas day. Let's not be bitter anymore, if that's all right, Christmas to people. For that reason, and without precedent, this does not seem to us to be the best way to discuss things. The way to avoid it would have been not to choose that date to make the investiture debate, and if that had happened we would not be talking about this issue now. So, in this case, Nueva Canarias expresses its support for the consideration of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u52	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u53	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know if you remember the Christmas Tale, the bad guy named Scrooge, who was a guy who didn't know what Christmas was. As I'm sure that dona Ana Pastor, the president of Congress, does know what Christmas is, I don't know who in Moncloa, what high lights in Moncloa represented that Christmas Story Scrooge who didn't believe in Christmas. The Spaniards are already angry enough to, on top of that, send them on the 25th to vote. There's no choice but to do this today. This is a serious country, and a serious country on Christmas day does not separate citizens from their families. They know that in the Canary Islands we make broth and kid on Christmas day, and I was told the other day by a friend: Imagine yourself, with all the joy in my house, who appoint me president of a table. Do you imagine all those civilian guards detaining all women and men because they are unable on Christmas day to leave their grandchildren and children who come from so many places? This has to be done, but especially because we have to be serious. It was not serious to coincide on Christmas day and, above all, we Members cannot become the Scrooge of the Christmas Tale, the badger who did not know her and then realized that there are good people. There are good people everywhere and especially in this country, and the good people of this country deserve sensitive politicians who recognize the circumstances of citizenship. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is absurd that in six months' time there have been two calls for general elections in Spain and that right now it hangs on the Spaniards the risk that within two weeks the Courts will be dissolved automatically and we will go to a new elections that, if they meet the literality of the Loreg, would call on the voters to vote on December 25th. That is why we consider the amendment of this law very timely, in order to prevent the succession of follies from ending by quoting the Spaniards before the ballot box at Christmas, a date of absolute festive tradition in our country. It is very reasonable to argue that elections that are called under the constitutional precept of dissolution of the Courts because the investiture has not taken place are considered a repetition. In this respect, we fully agree with this new seventh additional provision which is intended to incorporate into the Loreg and with the wording contained in the four points and their different sections. Therefore, Madam President, we will take into consideration the proposal made by the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Mature García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that it is difficult to talk about an issue that is probably overtaken by events, because this exceptional measure - which was raised in the initial initiatives - was, in any case, situated in the context of a third election, and I would say that in the fear that many of your ladies and gentlemen had a third election or to have to explain in the street why a third election was held. This responsibility was not, in any case, exclusive to the People's Party, but was also accompanied by other political formations. But this measure of exceptionality, in short, forgot about elementary aspects of the Electoral Law. It did not take into account the possibility of voting for those over 16 years of age. Nor did it take into account the constant irregularities - and I would say increasing - that have occurred to vote from abroad. He did not have it in the obscene control and absolute domination of the public media by the ruling party to serve the ruling party's strategy, nor did he have it in the spaces of opacity for the financing of the major political parties, which find magnificent sponsors and splendid donations to be able to continue their electoral campaign. They proposed it, in any case - and that was the most curious thing about this initiative - as a kind of gift to the citizenry so that it did not have to be seen on December 25th going to the polls, but in reality what frightened them, what frightened them, what would have to scare them, is to confront the citizenry, who does not understand how you waste your time and knows in a very certain way that you are part of the problem and not of the solution. In any case, it is not credible that this initiative should be transferred to us as a formula to improve the democratic process, because it is difficult to believe those who attack democracy with the Law gags, those who maintain prebendas in the electoral regime to further strengthen their positions, those who persecute and penalize ballot boxes in Catalonia and who punish endorsements and consultations in Euskal Herria. As the music group Porco Bravo said: law, law, dirty play, greed and power. And today, who have remembered so much about the Civil Guard, I have missed someone remembering also Federico García Lorca and his Romancero gypsy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u58	Thank you. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, reading the proposal for a law of the People's Party I have recalled that the Iberian peoples are usually very hyperbolic, so we speak of love when we mean sex, and in this proposal of law we speak nothing less than to interpret a precept of the Constitution when we only want to solve a specific problem of calendar. This is what we want to resolve here, ladies and gentlemen, let us not deceive or try to deceive citizens: we want to reform the Electoral Law because today there is a possibility that the electoral body will be convened next Christmas, which is obviously a very inconvenient date. And to this situation we have possibly arrived by tacticalism, because the failed candidate to the Presidency of the Government lost a week, which goes from 10 to 17 August, to summon the executive of his party to evaluate the conditions under which Citizens provided him with support for an investiture. I do not know if there was then an excess of parsimony or bad faith, but I now commend the fact that at least the People's Party has had the good pleasure of presenting this express proposal to avoid the general discredit that would bring us to vote on Christmas day. But please do not take this opportunity to arrogate yourself anything less than the role of interpreters of the Constitution and to make Article 99.5 say what it really does not say. This article is not an anomaly in our democratic system but, on the contrary, it is a way of a democratic solution to the previous problem of a blockage of investiture. Therefore, it cannot be said - as is repeated to the point of satiety in the explanatory statement of the proposal for a law of the People's Party - that in this case elections are being repeated. This is equivalent to telling people that what you voted for then is no longer valid, and this is unacceptable from a democratic perspective because the vote is always valid. Each new election involves inviting the electorate to look to the future, but also to make a trial of the past, what the elected representatives did or stopped doing in the final parliamentary term. Therefore, let us be responsible and not try to hide behind supposed electoral repetitions, because we seem to be scolding the electoral body for having elected ourselves. Nor should we use the timely timetable problem to introduce a reduction in the electoral campaign more than when it is strictly necessary. The election campaign has to last for fifteen days, and with greater reason in the case of the elections under article 95 of the Constitution, because the formations that we practically do not have access to the media or have more funds than our own resources, since we do not do so electorally, we need time to go through our constituencies and explain to the voters almost one by one what we have done in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u60	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u61	In short, in Compromís we do not like the philosophy underlying this proposal of law and I already indicate that, if it comes to be taken into consideration, we will present some amendments to prevent the reinterpretation of article 99.5 of the Constitution and to ensure that the reform proposed actually reaches the substantive problem, which is of timetable.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the language of Mariano Rajoy the word occurrence is more than usual, usual to say that no occurrences are expected of him. On 8 June 2010, it was published: Rajoy hopes that the fiscal amnesty will be the last occurrence of the PSOE Government. Then he pushed a tax amnesty. In September 2012, it was published: Rajoy points out that no incident is expected of him in the face of a transcendental meeting with President Artur Mas on autonomous financing. At that same meeting, the president of the government, with a challenging tone, said: 'Let's see who gives the most vertigo'. Rescueing this Freudian phrase is more than appropriate today because President Rajoy proposed to the President of Congress - and she accepted - an investiture debate on 30 and 31 August to activate a clock that would eventually lead us to a repeat election on 25 December. Those who are not supposed to occur had the great occurrence of putting forward possible new elections on Christmas Day. And although he said: 'To see who gives the most vertigo', the PP at the end has given him vertigo and proposes an express reform of the Loreg in three days. That is why Parliament must remedy, patch, tune the Electoral Law so as not to eventually vote between the towers and in Catalonia the pebbles. He had a great friend, who today would have turned seventy-nine years old, former member of this House, who said: In politics they only compute mistakes. Big mistake of the year and vertigo and improvisation Mr Rajoy's mistake putting pressure on him to hold elections on Christmas day. Today Parliament must remedy it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not expect major reforms in forty-eight hours. On the part of the Democratic Party we are going to put forward two lines of action. The first relates to the voting of residents abroad, because there is an absolutely impractical system for exercising a fundamental right. A year ago Mr García-Margallo sent me to the psychiatrist when I said that thousands of Spaniards had not been able to vote with this system. We must go to an electronic vote. And second question, Madam President, we ask for the Braille system vote also for the municipal elections. We have more than two and a half years ahead of us to make it possible and to deal with the great amendment to the whole of Mr Rajoy's occurrence. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u64	Thank you very much. Once the intervention of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the presentation of its initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress has been completed, Mr Vera Pró has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u65	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal for a law brought by the People's Parliamentary Group to the House today for consideration is intended to regulate only the case referred to in Article 99.5 of the Spanish Constitution. It is not a question of reforming our Electoral Law but of introducing into it a new additional provision that regulates the case of dissolution of the Chambers and the call for new elections in the face of the non-institution of the President of the Government. It is not a provision made only for the next fifteen days, but it is intended for future implementation, although we hope that this situation will not happen again and that this provision will not have to apply. But it is true that in this case the proposal also has another objective, which is to prevent the Spaniards - if there were third elections - from having to go to the polls on Christmas day. For a large majority of Spaniards, whatever their way of thinking, December 25 is a holiday to dedicate to the family and not to deal with public affairs. Not many days ago the political situation could be unlocking and everything seems to indicate that we could be near a new investiture session that would make the urgency of this proposal unnecessary, although this does not, of course, depend on the People's Parliamentary Group. At this time the situation is what it is and the coincidence of the election day with Christmas is inevitable until this new session is held and the President of the Government is invested by this House or we approve this bill. The implementation of the deadlines set out in article 99.5 of the Spanish Constitution and those laid down in the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime make this coincidence of dates inevitable. By the way, Mr Quevedo, I will tell you that when the date of that investiture session was set, it was made to invest a president of the government, not thinking of a third election. Ladies and gentlemen, the need and urgency of this proposal for a law to regulate in a different way the deadlines for a new call for general elections derives from the coincidence of dates, which today is an absolutely real possibility. As Mr Salvador said, there is no guarantee that this will not be the case. At least we should be able to agree to avoid further harming the Spaniards, because I honestly do not think they deserve it. And I am not going to enter into the sterile controversy of assigning responsibilities as to why still today, after three hundred days, we have no Government and we are only fourteen days away from an unwanted election call. The application of article 99, paragraph 5, of the Constitution means that the automatic call for such elections, which are repeated in previous elections, must be regarded as an anomalous situation in our constitutional system, as a result of the impossibility, rather than the inability of the Congress of Deputies to give confidence to a candidate for the presidency of the Government. The lack of investiture determines, as we all know, new elections to elect the new General Courts. That is why we think it is really appropriate that, whenever this assumption of a repetition of elections is given, we should shorten the time limits within which this electoral process should take place. We have only one limit, which is the one set by article 68 of the Constitution, which states that elections must take place between thirty days and sixty days after the end of the term of office. Therefore, within that limit is our proposal to reduce the electoral process from fifty-four to forty-seven days. But it would not be enough to reduce the duration of the campaign to eight days instead of the fifteen days it has in the ordinary process, but it would be necessary to advance other deadlines so as not to harm voters in other respects. As I say, some time limits must be set for voters to have the same time to vote by mail and this requires that they have to advance the nomination of candidatures, the appointment of representatives-general and the constitution of electoral coalitions. In addition, this proposed organic law sets out a number of measures that will facilitate the electoral process. I am referring, for example, to the extension of the term of office of the provincial and zone electoral boards; to the continuation of the exercise of their respective functions by the general representatives and representatives of the candidatures in each and every electoral district with the mere submission of a letter of maintenance of the designation; or to the validity of the electoral coalitions or of the candidatures that attended the previous electoral call with the mere fact of expressing the will to do so. Likewise, the guarantees submitted by the extra-parliamentary formations in order to be able to submit candidatures continue to be valid for the new call and also that voters residing abroad who had applied for the vote in the previous elections do not have to reiterate their request. That is why we are talking about facilitating and simplifying the electoral process. Similarly, the proposal contains two other measures of great importance. The first requires the political forces with representation in the General Courts to push for an agreement to reduce the electoral expenses resulting from the election campaign. For our part, I have already announced to you that the People's Parliamentary Group will present an amendment to significantly reduce the spending ceiling, as well as the vote and seat subsidies, that is, to reduce electoral expenses and that the campaign will be more austere; a measure in which I hope we can reach an agreement among all the groups. The second is aimed at ensuring the recruitment of the entire electoral system within such a short time as is provided for in this provision, declaring as an emergency contracts to be concluded by the organs of the General Administration of the State. In short, let the new call for elections be simpler, shorter and more austere. I'm done, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. This proposal for a law, for which we ask for its support, as well as for its final approval, has as its sole intention to avoid further inconvenience to the Spaniards, adapting, as stated in the explanatory statement, with all its guarantees the general procedure set out in our Electoral Law to a situation of repetition of elections resulting from the inability of this Congress to fulfil its obligation to invest a president of government. Finally, if it is taken into account - I hope so - we will have to look at the amendments that are being tabled and I think it would be an exercise of responsibility for all groups to give up submitting those amendments which have nothing to do with this proposal for a law. I am referring to that other type of amendment on electoral law reforms that we all have in our programmes, which we all find very interesting but which would require a lot more work time and a calm and calm debate, and it would therefore be pointless to raise at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now focus on what is ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u66	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will be brief in setting our position on the amendment to the Loreg, which will essentially be favourable. We agree that it has been addressed as an additional provision, as it concerns only the case of article 99.5 of the Constitution and is not introduced in any changes affecting the general electoral system. It articulates a special legal regime in the procedural order and of immediate application, without transitional delay, which has no place in the articulated by legal system and which constitutes an exception, a dispensation to the application of the general rule to the general procedure. That is why our amendments to the proposal for a law will also deal with the subject of this reform and not with general issues that we believe do not come from the political moment when we are neither in the procedure chosen for the reform: direct and read-only processing. That will also be our criterion for positioning ourselves with regard to the various amendments that could be made in response to this proposal. We find ourselves on the assumption in fact of a sort of repetition of elections as a result of an automatic process that is triggered by the failure to invest a president of the Government after the constitutionally determined deadline and that results in the reduction of an electoral process within a week and that applies to the electoral campaign. It is logical that a number of consequences, such as the advance of the deadlines for the appointment of representatives, the communication of coalitions or the submission of candidatures, and also the application of the principle of the preservation of acts, of what has been done in the previous electoral process. Thus, the maintenance of the electoral boards, the possibility of maintaining the representatives of the parties, the coalitions and the candidatures, the same possibility of maintaining the guarantees, the non-repetition of the request for a vote, etc. However, we appreciate - and the progress made - the absence of a similar provision for administrators under article 174 of the Electoral Act. For its part, the problem of electoral resources in relation to the reduction of the time of the electoral process is resolved by determining that the production of ballot papers will not be postponed even if recourse has been made in the relevant constituency. This seems to us a good solution, although some possible interpretative darkness should be avoided. Some of the amendments we will be putting forward will be addressed in this respect. All that has been said so far refers to an apparent truth: to adapt the general procedure of the electoral system to a situation of repeated elections as a result of the impossibility of having invested President of the Government, as if it were a meteorological phenomenon. However, the latent feature of this bill is the concrete political situation in which we find ourselves, not only because society would suffer very badly a third electoral process in a year and with a complete campaign, but also to self-correct a partisan political strategy, of the People's Party, having arranged everything for the election date to be Christmas day, to try to sharpen the political decision space of some other political force to predispose it in its favor regarding the investiture. We have allowed the time since the end of July to stand before this House and finally, at the end of August, to set an ad hoc date for the elections to fall, if necessary, on Christmas Day. Now it's up to us to repair that irresponsible strategy. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u68	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, everything seems to indicate that Mr Rajoy will get away with it, despite the fact that 16 million citizens in the Spanish state voted for political parties that had pledged not to continue and that only eight - which are certainly many, but only eight - wanted their continuity. Thanks to the economic powers, to the large economic groups, to the media that are the property of these economic groups that have so much power and thanks to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Mr Rajoy will almost certainly continue to govern the Spanish State. In fact, next week we will be witnessing the outcome of this sanctity and there will be an opportunity for Republicans and Republicans to put forward our reasons for voting against Mr Rajoy's investiture. But just as a few weeks ago the swords were still high and it seemed that perhaps the oligarchical powers would not get away with it - even when it was already sung and Mr. Felipe González already warned that they would win them, that is, the right -, as it was not all sung yet and Mr. Hernando was still preaching the alternative to the right, Mr. Rajoy maneuvered so that they would have another letter in order and effect to press, making the election day coincide with Christmas. In fact, if it were not all a trap and a pure paripé, the People's Party would now have to prove that it has nostrils and would have had to withdraw this proposal, because everything is already sung; that is, it is indirectly proportional to the degree of goatry of the citizenry, the degree of boredom of the citizenry to the ability you have had to mount this great spectacle. In fact, they are tahurs, they are tahurs; and I believe that we will all be harmed as a society, a low-cost democratic society that you are also committed to devaluing. I think we can all end up paying for it because you know that Messianic solutions and fascism are born precisely as a result of the deterioration of the quality of democracy, and history has already taught us this. I say that they would have shown that they have two political noses if they had withdrawn this proposal, but I do not know whether to look like what is not or because the final yes is still missing to this marriage of convenience between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, today they are putting us through the misconception of this debate. They have manipulated, even forced the Rules of this Congress by adding the urgency procedure to the one-reading procedure; in fact, it is the continuation of the contempt of this House. You, who are so proud of your homeland, have discredited this House by abducting the prime role of the deputy, who is to control the government. We have been in this Parliament for a year, but the primary function, I repeat, the function of controlling the government, I am no longer saying the legislative capacity, is gone. And we, naively, believed that the Socialist Party still had a little bit of self-love and that today I would say: Since we have to pay a pledge, let us turn to this Spanish aphorism that there is no harm in not coming and let us give a blow to the People's Party, since we have the possibility of taking something out of the well; because we have to go through what they have to go through, a Golgotha, at least let us take advantage and give them where it hurts the most, such as taking advantage of this debate and adopting some amendments that come from the Republicans, or from any other parliamentary group, of a regenerationist nature. And we, deluded, had believed that you still had self-love, and you have given the flags to the enemy, you have given the flags to the enemy. And I say enemy because it is also a phrase made; I should say to the adversaries, but we already understand each other. We thought: at least we'll make some use of it. For example, if you voted in favour, a few weeks ago, of a proposal for a republican law that sought to guarantee the suffrage of those over sixteen years old and all, except the People's and Citizens' Party, we agreed and the correlation to forces was favorable to us, why do you have self-esteem so devalued and do not know how to take advantage of it? Why? So delivered they have to be? Does the trap have to reach the stage of ending even self-love? We don't understand. We have tabled a number of amendments, I think they are all very interesting; indeed, amendments which have historically also been your property, and I think that this vote for those over the age of sixteen was very interesting. Moreover, I think that even citizens would forgive them somewhat the spectacle they are giving, because they would say: Perhaps the Socialist Party has been forced by, you know, the pressure of the banks, the pressure of the entities and the business lobbies, Mr Felipe González who does not give up on dynamite, etc. On the other hand, we have been able to make the most of it and we have made progress in a week, perhaps in three or four years. For example, is it or is it not necessary to save on propaganda expenses during the election campaign? Is it or is it not necessary, for example, to regulate the operation and participation of private television channels during election campaigns? Is it or is it not important, for example, to weigh or modify the proportionality in the allocation of seats that the current Loreg marks? Because it is false that the present system benefits the independenceists. It is the People's Party who historically harms the United Left and who benefits, and, secondly, you, which is why you have never been in a hurry to change the Loreg. There are therefore a number of issues on which we could have moved forward and adopted for a week; that is, today we discussed it and on Thursday we approved it, and we gave it to the People's Party in full political leadership. Why do they refuse to do that? Why do they refuse if they have made us do ridiculous, because it is they, the People's Party, who have caused a ridiculous situation in the Congress of Deputies. To be debating today change what they have created, which is the vodka, the sanatorium of a debate on whether the elections should be held at Christmas or not, cannot go free of charge; you cannot leave with rositas. If they lead us to an absurd, ridiculous scenario that says little about this Parliament, are we not going to make them pay for a garment? Aren't you going to pay anything? Are they going to leave without paying anything? You're essential for them to pay and you guys to split up. In fact, it's the preamble to what's going to happen next week. And now get out of San Antonio and say no. [[Laughter]] Let him out, we're waiting for him. [[Applauds]] In fact, we will already tell you next week, we are tired, I will even say that we are - forgive me, Madam President - pissed off. What you have done to us, the Republicans, these last few days, making run that we were pacting with you, throwing crap at another party - us - when you were killing each other, says very little of the respect you have for us. And we're very quiet people, but we don't shut up. We'll wait for you next week, unless you fix it. Run today, vote with the left to pay for the pledge. They have time; let them pay for clothing. [[Applauds]] Mr. Hernando, we're very outraged at you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u70	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it may be a coincidence, but I have to start by warning you that I am not the garment Mr Tardà was referring to. My name is Prendes, but I have nothing to do with the garment I was asking to pay for. There is a phrase from Ortega that you will know and that has been repeated many times in this rostrum: In this rostrum you must first avoid three things, do clown, tenor or boar. After this session we're going to have to incorporate something else that needs to be avoided, and it's ridiculous. Today we are going to vote on this initiative not to talk about important things, not to talk about the things that worry the Spaniards, not to talk about regeneration, not to talk about how to improve our educational system, not to talk about the corruption that floods the television news. Today we are going to vote on this initiative here to avoid a ridiculous, ridiculous thing that we are going to vote for the Spaniards for the third time in a year and that we are going to do it on Christmas Day. That is why, as I said to you, I would have liked to come up here to talk about other issues, these that I have just mentioned or to talk about, for example, many of the issues to which Mr Tardà referred now in his speech, because, I want to make it very clear, if there is a party here that has defended the imperative need to reform our electoral system that is Citizens, and we continue to defend it with the same conviction as before or more; it is not the first time that I have heard it here, in this rostrum, but not so, not in this way, not with these objectives. [[Applauds]] Today we are here to avoid a nonsense which, moreover, we hope will not be motivated by the intention to promote elections under the Christmas days and thus achieve a very low participation. If this low participation was someone's goal, it would be an objective to have a low-quality democracy and, of course, what we want is to improve this democracy and not depreciate it, as some seem to claim. After three hundred and three days without government, two election appointments, the parties in this House have not yet been able to agree to allow Spain to start walking and to start talking in this rostrum about the problems of the Spaniards. This is the first thing we need to see. Someone used to say it wasn't about accounting for how we got here. Yes, I think the first thing to do is to account for how we got here, how we got to this situation, that after three hundred and three days we are trying to avoid a capital nonsense and, as I say, not to deal with what we should do. Each has its responsibilities and, of course, we have the responsibility to have tried to build a bridge with all our strength and also to see that we have failed, for the moment we have failed. We have tried to build a bridge through which we are able to build those agreements that are going to be necessary and essential in the future. Call us naive, if you like, but in those two agreements that we have forged with the two candidates that the head of state proposed to submit to the investiture is the germ of the policies of the future, there is the germ through which Spanish politics will pass in the coming years, in those hundred measures that you two, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have signed even if you live on your backs and have signed it because we have imposed it on you in that negotiation with both candidates. There are 100 cross-cutting policies, there are 100 regeneration policies that counted, and I think they still have, with the consensus of 254 seats or, which is the same, almost 70% of the votes cast in the last elections. Thanks to that bridge that we have between you two should have reached this forum by now the policies to combat precarious employment, to build a quality educational system, so that workers can reconcile their family and work life, so that the self-employed have it a little easier and women have the same opportunities as men and, finally, that bridge is where they should have left, and the corrupt people of public life will come out, excluded from the electoral lists and also from the shield of forging. [[Applauds]] As I said, we do not resign, we are insistent people, although for the moment this effort has not been enough, so today we are here not talking about the important, but about how to avoid the ridiculous. We continue to defend the need for such electoral reform, and that is why we have registered in this House a non-legislative proposal for the immediate establishment of something which, by the way, you two accepted in those agreements: a subcommission, within the framework of the Constitutional Commission, to work on this constitutional reform and to change many of the issues of our electoral model. We believe that this is the model of how to reform such an important law, a law that is the basis, the structure on which our democratic system is based. We do not believe in such garments to be paid for; we do not believe in these express reforms, within 24 hours, of something as important as electoral reform. How can you use electoral reform as a mere ram of attack among political parties if that is something that structures our democratic system? How can those who have so intensely opposed - and continue to oppose - the reform of article 135 in that hasty way, now use the same system to make a reform on a law that, I say again, needs agreement, needs consensus because it is a structural law of our system? We believe that respect for democracy is also respect for forms, and of course an urgent and one-reading procedure would be an absolutely inappropriate procedure and, let me tell you, absolutely anti-democratic to reform a law as important as the Loreg. [[Applauds]] But I am telling you that this does not prevent us from making any amendments, I am telling you that we are going to make some amendments. And we are going to put forward some amendment on a curious issue. This amendment is a very detailed amendment, there is a proposal for a law that alters the normal course of the electoral procedure and does so with a great deal of detail in all its sections until it reaches the final point. [[formation of electoral boards, give for valid certain previous acts that have been made in previous processes...]] Just at point 4, at that end, it does not specify how this will affect the financing of political party campaigns. That leaves it to you in an absolutely vague, ambiguous and inconcrete formulation that differentiates it from a possible future agreement between political parties, an agreement that, by the way, was not possible because you and you have already opposed the previous call. [[pointing right and left]] And they don't care about that. There's no concrete in that. It is, I say, an absolutely diffuse and generic proposal, which is nothing of its own, on the other hand, a normative text, a legislative text. That is why we are going to put forward amendments on this, which we do believe can be reformed in this urgent procedure and which is what affects the financing of political parties, which affects spending limits, which affects subsidies and which affects something that is a source of inequality in the electoral procedure, which is electoral mailing, this very expensive electoral mailing that we all suffer and which, let us say, leads to an inequality of arms between the various political forces. In that point 4 we want concrete action too. In the same way that there is concreteness in the other sections, that is what we want to achieve and, if the electoral procedure is halved, we believe that we must also halve these subsidies and that electoral mailing can be a joint electoral mailing, it can be done perfectly, there are experiences of how it can be done in other countries, even in this country. We are therefore going to put forward amendments in that paragraph, which, I say again, seems to me to be something that fits this one-time and urgent reading procedure. I want to finish the way I started. What we need is to put an end to the blockade, to allow Spain to have a government. Only in this way will we avoid continuing in this process of ridicule towards the Spaniards and only in this way can we look to the future. In the end, it's about understanding politics as something useful, not as a battle between politicians that we discuss to see how we get clothes from each other, how we ambush political activity. No; it is about making a useful policy, at least we understand it and therefore we hope that the time will come, and that it will be soon, when we start talking about the important and stop talking exclusively about the urgent and how to avoid the ridiculous, a greater ridiculous before all the Spaniards. I am sure that, if we talk about important things, about important things for the Spaniards, about their problems, about the problems of the Spaniards, is what my colleagues have been waiting for for for a very long time and with great anxiety. And I'm sure it's something you're expecting too. I mean, I hope you can talk about how important those who have to hear, hear and those who have to see, see. We, in any case, have the bridges and we will continue to do so because we believe, as I said, in useful politics. And today the useful thing to avoid the ridiculous will be to vote in favour of the processing of this proposal of law but, as I told you, of course we will not forget, we will not stop pushing forward this reform of the Loreg, of the Electoral Law, which will lead us towards a more just, more equal, more proportional electoral system and which will encourage the true participation of Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u72	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Bescansa Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. You, gentlemen of the PP, are sitting here today so that we can all mend your disguises. You called the first vote for an investiture that was expected to fail on 31 August, not by choosing the date of 31 August but by choosing precisely the date of Christmas day as the date of the possible future elections. You went to an investiture that knew you were not going to go out and therefore knew that after that investiture two scenarios were opened: to force the Socialist Party to support you in forming government and to prevent in everything that the Socialist Party could form government with us or to leave the country in third elections. And what better way to put pressure than to set the date of the third elections for Christmas Day. That has no precedent in any country in our environment or in those that are not in our environment; it is what I would call an unprecedented drizzle, a deliberate drizzle, not accidental, not as a result of negligence or of having done something without realizing it, but a knowing drizzle, which on the street is known as a macarade. The message was very simple: if I don't get in the institutions what I haven't got in the polls, I break the deck; if I don't get my candidate out of the president, you're going to get upset and, like the naughty kids, I'm going to ruin his vacation all over the country. It is a truly shameful approach, it is an approach in which you have passed so much of a brake that you immediately realized that it was such nonsense that you had caused that we are now rectifying what you then promoted, promoted and sponsored knowingly. They certainly did not expect that, far from helping them build that majority, such a decision would put all public opinion in this country against them. They caused real astonishment. I believe that there have been few decisions that have aroused as much social consensus as setting the date for the next elections on Christmas Day was unprecedented nonsense. That crazy decision turned against you and that's why we're all here today having to fix what you've undone. Living to see; in six weeks we are gathered here urgently, in one reading process, so that we can fix the mess. I think you've looked very bad in front of all of Spain; you've looked like brownies. They've shown that when they don't win they're able to do anything, do something like this, something that can't be counted or compared. They have shown everyone that when they don't get what they want, they break the deck, burn the cards, kick the floor and even throw the parties all over the country, all for perpetuating themselves in the government. But we do not all act in the same way and we will help to fix the problem that you used to, in a gesture of arrogance and arrogance like few, you have created. We'll fix this, of course, of course. But this should make us think and above all I think it should make you think. How far are you able to get, how far are you able to get from the People's Party when you don't get what you want? How far are they able to bend their arms to institutions to get what the ballot boxes don't give them? In that sense, may this nonsense invite you, members of the Socialist Party, to think carefully about the decision you are going to make in the coming days. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u74	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution, in its article 99.5, includes a mechanism proper to so-called streamlined parliamentaryism whose purpose is to return the decision to the electoral body, once it has been warned that it is impossible to invest candidates. Its ultimate meaning, as stated by the Constitutional Court in judgement 16/1984, is to try to prevent the existence of prolonged political crises. That would be, in short, the theory, a theory that expresses a good and useful purpose but that is entirely fallible because a decision can be received from the electorate very similar to that resulting from the previous elections. This is what happened in the June elections. As streamlined as they are, the mechanisms envisaged do not resolve by themselves the political crises that respond to root causes and depend on their overcoming the state of a country's political culture. A whole collective subject pending, ladies and gentlemen. Far from having functioned the mechanism of article 99.5 of the Constitution in that sense of resolution of the crisis, it has been conquered and once again it has not been possible, for the time being, to invest a president and to form a government. Therefore, the undesirable and unwanted possibility of a new electoral call is maintained in the immediate horizon, in addition to being able to become nothing less than the third within a year, to which there is another really perverse effect: that the election day, as has been said here, had, if necessary, to be celebrated on Christmas Day. Ladies and gentlemen, this undesirable effect has not occurred by mere chance, but by seeking causality, because the cause, let us remember, was that the candidate of the recent and failed investiture vote, Mr Rajoy, would encourage with subterfuge the election of the date of the first vote for 31 August, determining the inexorable celebration at the aforementioned Christmas party of the new and still possible electoral process. The decision was planned knowingly, it was carried out knowingly, with the political perspective of the frog, it could be said, using a graphic expression of Fernando de los Ríos in this very Chamber that comes right to the case, with the opportunistic and rampant claim to pressure the Socialist Party before the investiture and to turn it into a scapegoat in the eyes of the citizenry in case such a disheartened with the electoral call. As you know, Mr Rajoy was faithfully seconded by the President of this House, who was ultimately responsible, according to his competence, for convening the investiture plenary. Madam President, with all due respect I say to you that you should have avoided, with the required impartiality of the Presidency of this House, that plenary should be held on the date on which it was held. Ladies and gentlemen, as the saying goes, there is no point in continuing to complain about spilled milk. It is right that it should be rectified, even if it is not to cast my guilt or openly acknowledge the great mistake that has been made, a mistake that comes from a grotesque attitude, generating a chastity, a hoax that was made within the People's Group at that bad time. What is regrettable, however, is that the Group of the European People's Party is bringing to this House a proposal for a law which, apart from other technical shortcomings, is not well-founded. The statement of reasons considers the automatic call of this type of election to be a kind of anomaly of our constitutional system, also meaning them as a repetition of the immediately preceding ones. Well, Your Honor, neither. This is not, at all, an anomaly in our constitutional system, but a specific situation differentiated from the other cases of exhaustion of the mandate. On the other hand, in the very long process that we have been experiencing since December 2015, anomalies have not been exactly as formal as they are seriously material. I will recall some examples, such as that Mr. Rajoy slipped the bundle and declined to take the investiture in front of the king's offer, something really unusual. Or that We can align with the People's Group with a strong and over-active not to the investiture of a socialist president who presented himself with a good programme of government of change and progress. Or that successive proposals for investiture, as provided for in article 99, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, were not made later. Of those dusts, ladies and gentlemen, these muds. Nor is this a repetition of the elections immediately before. The elections are never repeated, for each of them has its own identity; neither is it a second or a third round. This type of election has a reason to be its own, the proven impossibility of investing a government president, which is the crucial moment in which the pluralism present in the House is ordered by giving way to a majority of government and also, correlatively, let us not forget, an opposition, thus marking the beginning of the full functioning of the parliamentary democratic institutional system, a certainly fundamental issue to which we must give a way out, but not the culmination of an investiture is not the result of the breach of the first obligation of the Courts as, with a narrow and erroneous conception of Parliament, the People's Group proposes. The investiture is not the first obligation of Parliament to be fulfilled or not to be fulfilled, but the first role it has to deal with democratically, the result of which is uncertain, yes, it is not predetermined. Sometimes a serious mistake can lead to a positive lesson for everyone. This episode has demonstrated something so far not foreseen, the need for a regulation of the specialty that involves an electoral call in the assumptions of article 99.5 of the Constitution. This speciality consists in the fact that the electorate already knows, at least in substance, the programmatic proposals of the political formations competing with the elections, so the candidates will not need at the same time as the immediately preceding ones to carry out their own activities leading to the formation and expression of the popular will aimed at the capture of suffrages. This supports the desirability and the possibility of reducing the time allowed for the campaign within the framework of the duration set out in article 68.6 of the Constitution, and also enables the establishment of a series of measures that will undoubtedly facilitate the new electoral process by reducing time limits, taking advantage of procedures and also taking advantage of organizational elements already used in the previous electoral process. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is in favour, although without any enthusiasm, as you will understand, of taking into account this proposal for an organic law which is concrete in the incorporation of an additional seventh provision into the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime. We understand that this tight file is now the right one. It is true that the general regime requires reforms that are absolutely necessary, important and that must be undertaken immediately that the political situation is normalised and that we have more scope to analyse them, to receive the views of the experts, to dialogue, to debate, to agree and to concretely implement the measures. What is now envisaged are only, with simplicity in its formulation, the specialties of the electoral procedure that allow a better management of the process as development - and not interpretation - hitherto unpublished in article 99.5 of the Constitution. Of course, in addition to correcting the terrible error of the PP, as I said before, of having deliberately called for the elections to be held on 25 December. Hence the agreement of the Bureau of the Chamber, heard by the Board of Spokesmen, to submit to the plenary its direct and read-only procedure, which seems to be the right thing, which is also absolutely compatible with subsequent initiatives of broader and more complex reforms of electoral legislation, with which the Socialist Group, without doubt, will be fully committed in order, among other things, to adapt the electoral system by consensus, to bring the voters closer to the representatives, to strengthen the equal representation of men and women, to improve representativeness, to reform the vote of Spaniards abroad in order to broaden their participation and to promote the vote of foreign residents in Spain, as well as to introduce organizational and procedural elements of modernization. Mr. Tardà, you are the evil thought. Mr Tardà, we are serious; you are looking to scrape and manufacture headlines because it is very daring to claim such complex and broad electoral reforms in twenty-four hours. We do not accept their expressions at all, as we will not accept their amendments. We do not accept your threats, we do not accept your ex-abrupts; you cannot give us, the socialists, lessons of any kind. Their overperformance does not intimidate us at all. [[Applauds]] Why? Because we work with reason and reasonably; we work reasonably. Although we have to stick to the framework in which this proposal is being produced and its specific reason for being, we are announcing that we are going to table some amendments to add and amend it to various forecasts in order to clarify better the basis of this rule, its technical improvement and also the proportional reduction of subsidies for electoral expenses as well as the expenditure limits because we believe that this matter cannot be left to the dawn, much less, of the evanescent provision of this proposal, which simply refers to the political forces pushing for an agreement to reduce the costs arising from the electoral campaign. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u76	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u77	We move on to item 3 of the agenda. The Bureau, having heard the Board of Spokespersons and in accordance with rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, has agreed to submit to the House for approval the direct and read-only processing by the Plenary of the proposed organic law reforming Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. If deemed appropriate, this item could be put to the vote without a previous debate. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] - DIRECT AND ONLY READING TREATMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 5/1985 OF 19 JUNE, OF THE GENERAL ELECTORAL REGIME, FOR THE SUBJECT OF AUTOMATICAL ELECTIONS CONCERNING THE PURPOSE OF ARTICLE 99 OF THE CONSTITUTION. [[File number 122/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u78	Let's move on to point 4. Similarly, the Bureau, having heard the Board of Spokesmen and in accordance with rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, has agreed to submit to the House for approval the direct and read-only processing by the Plenary of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, for the assumption of automatic call for elections under article 99, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. If deemed appropriate, this item could also be put to the vote without previous debate, as had been agreed. Do we remember it that way? [[Consent]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u79	We move on to the next item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the initiation of the procedure for the reform of the autonomous financing system. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current system of autonomous financing, as it is known, was approved in 2009 and introduced important changes with respect to the previous one, which was promoted by the Government of José María Aznar in 2001. Perhaps the most notable was the updating of population figures, since the 2001 model took as its starting point those of the standard on 1 January 1999 and did not define any procedure for updating them year by year. Indeed, when that autonomous funding system came into force in 2002 in the common system communities, 1.6 million more people were already residing than the 2001 regional funding model recognized, and by the beginning of 2009 the gap between the population recognized by the autonomous funding system and that actually existing in the common system communities had risen to 6.3 million people. The system that entered into force in 2009, therefore, served to update population figures, but was built on data from the last available system liquidation at that time, which was that of 2007, a year that, let us recall, was a year in which the income allocated by the funding system was at its peak. It should also be recalled that the distribution of resources in the 2009 regional funding system is largely contingent on the status quo derived from the previous model, that of 2001. There is therefore a link between the 2009 and 2001 system, a link between the two funding mechanisms, which was in fact required primarily by the autonomy governed by the People's Party in exchange for abstaining when its governments voted in 2009 on the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. This link between the two systems of autonomous financing has ended up being detrimental to virtually all the autonomous communities as a result of the collapse of the collection, since, as I say, the 2009 model takes the year 2007 as a reference, in which income was at maximum levels. And this link between the 2009 and 2001 systems has been particularly damaging to those communities that received health and education transfers before. However, none of this that I have just reported was inevitable, the funding system could be changed at any time when the Government found that it was leaving income cuts to virtually all the autonomous communities and at least had to be fulfilled as set out by the Lofca, which determines that the results of the implementation of the funding system have to be reviewed within five years of its entry into force and that any funding differences should be offset by the modification of the system for the next five years. Therefore, the deadline for carrying out the revision of the model has already been concluded for a long time, without the Government of Spain having moved the form. He announced this revision in 2014, eventually setting up a working group within the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, but later paralyzed it with the argument that the political climate was regular. These are the words of the Minister, who said that the political climate was regular. But it seems that having 186 deputies in Congress, as the People's Group then had, ruling in two thirds of the autonomous communities, as the People's Party then ruled, was not enough to create an adequate political climate. This is an argument, the argument of the political climate, which is neither a bad excuse, because the Rajoy government has never cared about the political climate nor the social rejection of the decisions it made. When he wanted to change a law, when he wanted to cut a right, when he wanted to curtail a freedom, he did so without any kind of contemplation. Nor has there been a problem of lack of resources; the Rajoy Government has found resources when it wanted, when it wanted to rescue financial institutions, when it wanted to rescue toll freeways or when it wanted to make a tax reform that basically favors high incomes and large corporations, and that it pushed further knowing that the European Commission warned it that it was opening the door to non-compliance with the deficit target and subsequent coercive measures if the deficit target was not met. The Rajoy Government did not reform the financing system simply because it did not want to, because it preferred to put in place a conditional lending mechanism that limits the political and financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, with which it offers liquidity in exchange for social cuts. A mechanism that is also an asymmetrical mechanism because the less funding an autonomous Government receives, the more dependent it is on the loans of the State and, therefore, the more cutback it sees its political and financial autonomy because of the conditions imposed on it by the Government of Spain. And all this was also done by the Rajoy Government in a context in which it has spread the deficit limit without taking into account the weight of the expenditure that each Administration carries out, allocating to the self-governments a percentage of the deficit much lower than its share in the expenditure while it reserves a much higher share for the Central Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain often forgets that the communities are also a State and that the income to be received is only their share of the total collection and not a graceful or discretionary concession made by the Government of Spain. The Socialist Group's GNP which we are bringing this afternoon reflects the text of a resolution which was adopted in this House very recently, which was adopted last April, incorporating our own amendment to an original text which was of Compromise. Then he went ahead with the only abstention of the PNV and without any vote against. Today, of course, we hope that it will be able to achieve a level of consensus similar to that achieved at the time. What we do in the GNP is to urge the Government to implement immediately the reform of the autonomous financing system; we establish the need to compensate for income shortfalls in accordance with the mechanism envisaged by the Lofca itself; we recognize the requirement that the lending mechanisms to communities, while they remain, be applied objectively, transparently, without arbitrariness, so that the autonomous governments can ensure the payment of the main social expenditure items, and we also stress that the new system must ensure the financial adequacy of the communities, guarantee social expenditure and ensure equal opportunities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we live where we live, on the coast, in the countryside, in the countryside, in the city, in a richer community or in a poorer community, all of us must have access to the same levels of public benefits, all of us must have the same opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u81	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bel Accensi is speaking first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u82	I will intervene very quickly, Madam President, to defend our amendment. Should the system of financing the autonomous communities be modified? Obviously, yes, but the principles on which this non-law proposal rests could be expanded. For us who respect the principle of ordination is basic; to take into account the cost of living in each of the autonomous communities in the financing system is an old demand that should be incorporated from our perspective; to respect the co-responsibility of each of the autonomous communities and, therefore, their financial and tax autonomy is also a principle that we would have no problem in this House in order to be able to reach consensus. From Catalonia we are not going to lead this process - we have done it on other occasions, we have been stigmatized and we have not had the results we wanted - but, if they start it in this House, we will follow it closely and as long as they incorporate these basic and fundamental principles for our political formation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u84	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this non-legislative proposal is about a matter to which New Canarias attaches decisive importance, which is why we are going to support it. The system of autonomous financing that was developed in 2009 has already had very harsh criticism on our part, because in the Canary Islands it is believed that the loss for the unjust system of autonomous financing is more than 600 million euros every year; and I have to remember that these are amounts that go mainly to the maintenance of the great public services. This situation has led to a profound deterioration in certain communities - in some rather than others - it has increased inequality, social injustice and this must be corrected as a matter of urgency. This is why we will support this non-law proposal without restrictions of any kind. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u86	Thank you, Madam President. For the Canary Islands this is indeed a fundamental issue for two reasons. First, because this system had to be reviewed five years ago and seven have passed. We are the worst-funded community according to Ministry of Finance data. And, second, because the funds that Canaries receives for remoteness and insularity are being calculated, the REF revenues, which are the ones that have to compensate for remoteness and insularity. These funds do not have to be in the funding system, but we have to have the same per capita funding so that health in La Gomera, El Hierro, La Palma or Tenerife is the same. The costs of insularity must go to the financing of our Economic and Fiscal System. For all that, it seems to us an urgent issue and the sooner the work begins the more justice there will be in this country and we will be more equal all of us live where we live, even though we live 2,300 kilometers as the canaries live. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u87	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u88	Firstly, I would like to raise a question. We would like the Socialist Party to clarify whether when they talk about a new system that must guarantee equality they are proposing, even if they do not say it openly, the end of the concert and the Basque convention, because they have ever done so. They also tell us about solidarity to ensure the provision of public services, when their party has been one of the main causes of their dismantling, as well as the creator of important cuts in spending and social rights. Solidarity begins by prioritizing social spending rather than debt, by guaranteeing education ahead of defence spending or health care, or by placing the emphasis on care rather than on the waste of the monarchy. If they really want to prioritize these expenses, they will have us there and they will know the solidarity of the Basque people. But do not ask us to contribute with solidarity to that huge defence budget when we have the unemployment, precariousness and poverty situation we currently have. I insist, Basque citizenship is solidarity, bet on equality, but they will understand that paying the debt to the banks or the purchase of armaments is not in our priorities, and that solidarity should start with mutual recognition, by the recognition that we Basques and Basques have to decide our own economic, social and labour policies, to decide how much we owe, because we are sure that this would contribute to the substantial improvement of society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u89	Thank you very much. I now have the floor, also for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since Compromis I would like to say that we are of course going to approve the proposal that Mr López has put forward. I think an image can perfectly define why we are going to approve it. [[Show a chart]] This graph shows the debt currently held by the Valencian Community. This is when the People's Party took over the reins of the government and here where it left it. He multiplied the debt by fifteen and, one of two, either was a very useless Government or we had bad financing and, apart from other considerations, we were very poorly financed. [[Show a chart]] This other image shows perfectly why we are. This would be the per capita expenditure on basic services of the autonomous community of better financed common system and this would be what the Valencians, the Valencian Country, have: more than 2,800 euros less in health, social services and education every year, for twenty years. That's a lot of money. That is why - I finish - when we talk about funding we are talking about rights, we are talking about basic public services, we are talking about justice, equality, the Constitution that they so much like to talk about. That is why when Mr Montoro said that he had not had time, first, to reform this when he was his delegation and then he had no money, the truth is that I am very outraged, and when Mr Rajoy said that they had other priorities, what other higher priorities can be than the fundamental rights of citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u91	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking again today about autonomous financing and, like many things that are happening in this second repeated legislature, we have the impression of Marmot Day, accentuated today surely because we are not only talking about autonomous financing twice in a few months, but that today a proposal for a law has come into this Chamber to regulate the issue of deficit targets for the autonomous communities. But it is good to talk about autonomous financing, because it is the financing of health, education, social services, that is, the money needed to make social policies. However, let us not be fooled, an important sector of the population, when we talk about autonomous financing, interprets it as a distribution of money among politicians, as wasteful, interprets it in a way that may be wrong, but really our system of autonomous financing lacks things, and one of the most obvious things it lacks is the responsibility of the autonomous leaders and control of up to the last euro of the money that comes from taxpayers. Let us think that autonomous financing is to a large extent the financing of social expenditure, but that the best social policy, in fact the only feasible social policy, can be paid for. That is why the system of autonomous financing is so important, and that is why this group, Citizens, has tabled an amendment to the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal which affects these two points: the responsibility of the autonomous leaders and the control of each euro that ultimately comes from the taxpayers. For us, the financing system is important, unlike other groups that do not consider it relevant, but above all it is very important that we are talking about financing what needs to be financed: education, health, social services, and not ghostly state competences that then lead to deficits that put general financial stability at risk and that are shielded from absolutely entrepreneurial slogans such as Spain robs. In order to avoid all this, not only is control and responsibility important, but above all that the system is clearer and more transparent because, if it is not, in the end the leaders who fail, who put us all at risk, end up getting away with it because the citizens do not understand where their money goes. The autonomous financing system needs reform, but it has been unfair for a long time. Let us think that in 2009 the Socialist Party approved the previous system of autonomous financing and we continue to have it in force, and there are really unacceptable differences, which are not justified by anything. There are differences of more than 30% between common system communities, and if we take into account outside communities there are differences in per capita funding of more than 80%. Therefore, the Spanish unfortunately do not enjoy the same essential services regardless of where they live. This can't be like this. On the other hand, the People's Party also has its responsibility in all of this, because the previous system of autonomous financing expired two years ago and the Government has not been concerned with implementing the new system of autonomous financing, since it systematically criticizes and then criticizes the autonomous communities because they do not meet the deficit targets, when sufficient funding is not guaranteed. This is one of the fundamental reforms, that of autonomous financing, which must be put in place, but it must be done not only with the criteria that this non-law proposal brings, but, in our view, including fundamental issues, such as the control of each euro of the money that comes from the taxpayer, as well as greater transparency and simplicity in the system. This is an ambitious issue that we should address, but today we are as we are, and we are without government and trying to plug holes, as we have seen this morning, so that the autonomous communities are not forced to cut more than EUR 4 billion that Europe is asking us to cut. Somehow we could almost end up as I finished the last time I came up here to talk about autonomous financing, saying that, if Spain doesn't get started, all this will disappear like tears in the rain. But it's even worse, because if we don't get started, what will undoubtedly happen will be widespread cuts and also an important stop in the economy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for Spain to set in motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u93	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u94	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. The Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea clearly shares that at the centre of the political present must be autonomous financing for two reasons: the first of them of a normative nature, the norm itself demands in its transitional provision that this be practiced, but above all economic reasons. Indeed, this rule, this system, has caused profound inequalities. The aim of this rule was to ensure horizontal equity, to guarantee equality and to foster a system of autonomy, sovereignty and deep self-government, and far from doing all this, it has achieved the opposite: it has been unequal, re-centralised, cut and privatized. And all this with the much-loved excuse for the absent Mr. Montoro to cut in arrears, because, indeed, through the cuts that the autonomous communities had to execute were causing deep social injustices. Having said that, what does the People's Party think? What do you think Mr. Rajoy is missing? What you said in this very House to Mr Baldoví. In one of the worst-financed autonomys such as the Valencia Country, Mr Rajoy told Mr Baldoví that financial reform had not been implemented because it was not a priority. The men and women of the United We Can-In Commu Pom-In Marea we ask the People's Party: what is the priority for you? Is it not a priority for you, for example, to care for patients with cancer? Isn't it a priority to open schools? Is it not a priority, as the Socialist Party's initiative says, to pursue active employment policies? Isn't this a priority, Mr. Rajoy? We and we believe that yes, and that is why we believe that we are before a deeply irresponsible Government; a Mr Montoro who has been profoundly unjust, who has been ineffective - I refer to the facts, they were not able in the time they have been governing to practice this reform - and a deeply blackmailing Government. What Mr Montoro has done has been to blackmail the autonomies to, through this, throw funding at their faces. And we say no. That was done by the People's Party, but it is true that we arrived here drinking from the sources of bipartisanism, that rampant bipartisanism. A substantial part of autonomous financing lies precisely in public revenue, yes, in public revenue, and here the model of the Socialist Party and the People's Party turn has been the same. Remember the debate that underpinned this rule, remember it; of that we were told by the Socialist Party men and women that lowering taxes was left; of that we were told by the Socialist Party men and women that abolishing the property tax was necessary because it recorded to the middle classes. Well, this was done by the Socialist Party, but Mr Montoro arrived and Mr Montoro ended everything, he lowered the direct taxes, the indirect taxes went up; indeed, he made tax gifts and the most serious, he made tax amnesties for the criminals, and so we are in this country. [[Applauds]] But the incumbent governments also agreed on a metaphorical coup d'état, which was the night of 135. Indeed, the autonomous communities had to undergo additional control over their indebtedness through the harmful effects of that damn article 135. And to close the circle, indeed a rule that was the vanguard of Mr Feijóo in Galicia, which you later brought to this House, which is the rule that we have discussed today, the law of the ceiling of public expenditure. This is the ultimate rope to strangle the autonomy, to strangle the municipalities and to achieve a magnificent effect - which is what the People's Party wants - which is to cut to privatize and, above all, to cut and privatize to transfer the cuts to the autonomy, which are responsible for the suppression of fundamental public rights and also, on the other hand, to achieve something much desired by the men and women of the People's Party, which is to give benefits to those who do not stand for election, to the creditors, to those they command. We understand that we must not continue walking around here. There are many more elements that we need to change. This is the framework of bipartisanship but it is true and true that we believe that there is a unique opportunity to change things. Frankly, we believe - that is why we have tabled three amendments on behalf of the Confederal Group - that the system needs to be changed, we have a unique opportunity for the men and women of this plural country. Because the canaries and canaries and the people of clear whales who have to have their dispersion and their insularity contemplated and for them is a vital element the transport; or the Galicians and the Galicians, that we have half of the rural centers of the whole state, we have to have adequate funding for this; or, for example, the case of Madrid palm tree, why Madrid that has fiscal surplus and reduces debt has to narrow down and not be able to continue to spend to practice public services. We believe that all this needs to be changed, and we are submitting three amendments to that effect. In the first we call on the Socialist Party, in a noble debate, to at least allow us to have the future debate on the degree of levelling we must have in public services. The Socialist Party's initiative is contradicted, either we finance essential public services or we finance what it tells us in its resolution 4, also active employment policies. Let us leave that debate for later and see what degree of levelling we have to ask for. We believe that a degree of consensus has already been reached at the academy to maintain that we must move towards full levelling. In any case, let us remove that debate so that this House finally tells us where to go. Secondly, a small addition...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u95	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u96	... and that the statutes of autonomy should also be taken into account. Finally, a very important amendment so that, once and for all in this country, we practice the second decentralization. Our municipalities are also of all and all. I conclude by reminding Professor Pérez Royo that in this magnificent text that he has just published in which he speaks of an unfeasible constitutional reform, he says that we are faced with a Constitution that is monarchical, bipartisan, anti-federal and - as Mr Monedero says - oligarchical. It also points out that we are facing an exhausted system of autonomy. Gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, be brave and reform the system. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u97	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Nieto Ballesteros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are again discussing - I think it is the fourth time in a calendar year, in plenary or in the Commission - the system of autonomous financing. That in itself might be curious, but it is more so when in those four times the debates have been conducted with overwhelming majority voting, virtually none have any votes against. We should therefore ask ourselves why this issue should be discussed again, and why this is so repeated. The first reason that comes to my mind is to think that the Socialist Group has an important touch of masochism, because we must be eager to move the greatest scarecrow, or one of the biggest scarecrows, from the legacy of the government of Rodriguez Zapatero and the Socialist Party over and over again in this House. The second reason may have another interest, and is that you strive to achieve in some way to impose what is now called the story. What is the story? The story is to say that the People's Party and the Rajoy Government punish the autonomous communities with a funding system that, as has been said in this rostrum, is dark, untransparent, cheating, insolidary, unjust and even some said unconstitutional. Second point of the story: The People's Party and Mariano Rajoy not only impose this harmful system but also do nothing to help the autonomous communities that suffer it. Third part of the story: The People's Party and the government of Mariano Rajoy could change it when they wanted and they haven't. This is already the culmination of cruelty. Ladies and gentlemen, not one thing or the other. This time they will also not be able to impose that story in which they feel starved while being criticized by that part of the left that was an accomplice of the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero and the Socialist Party in December 2009; that group that undertook to achieve something that has proved negative and that the name of the financing system was left and was not consensus, agreement, justice, equity, effectiveness or sufficiency. That is to say, those names that are missing today, that we all claim and that were not carried out because that funding system was the last step of the Tinell Pact and the definitive closure of the health cord that consisted of expelling the People's Party from any political space and from any representativeness. Ladies and gentlemen, all things that are done with purely ideological criteria, seeking party benefit and with a tremendous sectarian attitude lead to the same point: failure. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, that was the result of this funding system. If you read my colleague Alvaro Nadal's speech today the day the funding system was approved in this House you would see how it is repeating point by point what he announced was going to happen with this funding system. I deny you the greatest, this story is not worth and is not worth, first, because the system is of the Socialist Party of Zapatero with the support of the left; second, because it is a lie that the Government of Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party have done nothing to prevent the effects on the autonomous communities. Many things have been done, measures have been adopted to act against the main problem: the lack of liquidity, and there is the FLA, the different payment plans to suppliers, the ICO lines and the extraordinary liquidity measures. EUR 180 billion has been mobilized to help the Autonomous Communities. 400,000 jobs have been saved by saving thousands of companies that would break if their bills were not paid. Measures have been taken to assume responsibility for the sustainability of the autonomous communities, the measures that were most worn out have been taken by the People's Party Government so that the autonomous communities do not do so and, of course, it has not been thanked but used as an excuse to say that the blame for everything was Rajoy's, even if it was autonomous competence. Funding has been increased despite economic difficulties at a terrible time, so don't cut that story. We have voted in favour of these measures over and over again because we want to change the system, but to all the groups that have used it I want to tell you why the system has not been changed. First, because it had a five-year period, which was completed in 2015. Secondly, because in 2015 there was also a fact that was no smaller than the municipal and autonomous elections, and what then would all the groups that are represented here have said that a new system was needed if it had changed before the age of five or had changed before there were new municipal and autonomous governments in the 2015 elections? Or what would they have said if it had been done after the 2015 municipal and autonomous elections? If it had occurred to the Government to bring in the Budgets Act and look at what they said, what would they have said if they had tried to impose this solution? Don't cut the story. We want a new funding system. We have tabled an amendment, they have not accepted it, but we are still going to vote in favour because we want to change this system. The last fact, the last condition for the system to be changed: that there be a Government. I hope that we will soon be able to have that Government and then have a new funding system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u99	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u100	Very good evening to all and all. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, by the time you have approved the new autonomous funding regime, know that Catalonia will already be independent. [[Laughter]] Laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, It will then be when they warn the magnitude of the Catalan expoliation. Moreover, it will then be when they observe how an unsustainable system of autonomous financing collapses. Unsustainable because the current financing system is based on the expoliation of the Catalan countries, Catalonia, the Valencià Country and the Balearic Islands. Not in vain should any citizen of Catalonia know that in 2013 the State financed with 2,281 euros per inhabitant the so-called public services - education, health, social protection - in Catalonia. However, if that citizen had resided in the Basque Country, he would have received 3,026 euros for the same services; 2,931 euros if he were Asturian; 2,749 euros if he lived in Santander or Santillana del Mar; and 2,585 euros if he was extremist. Years ago, many years ago we denounced this injustice that you and you have maintained for decades, and that is as immutable as the Constitution itself. With this attitude they have given reason to the position that Esquerra Republicana has maintained for decades: the only just financing system for our citizenship is the one that we will manage from our own independence. The Catalan Republic is the only guarantee of social services. It is the only guarantee of universal, free and obviously quality education or health. The Catalan Republic is the only guarantee for a welfare state that the PP is laminating through direct rights cuts and through economic and fiscal asphyxiation to the autonomous communities. In fact, the Catalan Republic will be a reference for the Valencia Country and the Illes to see that the fiscal expoliation they suffer can only be overcome through national independence. Among other things, because those state parties that defend federalist projects for the Spanish State do not question that it is the state that decides the method of autonomous financing and in no case recognize that the autonomous communities can have a model of fiscal self-management such as Basques and Basques. You know why? Because the model of fiscal self-management would call into question the expenses of the Spanish State, of the Spanish Government, especially in areas such as military spending, such as the duplicity of transferred competences, the maintenance of provincial parliaments or pharaonic projects such as the AVE from Madrid to all provincial capitals. Because the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not the transfer of capital from one autonomous community to another in what they have called interterritorial solidarity, the problem is another. The problem is what the State takes away from us in order to maintain an oversized administration, which squanders on top, inefficient and also centralist, which undermines any logic of economic rationality. The problem of financing Andalusia or Extremadura, ladies and gentlemen, for example, is not in Catalonia, it is precisely in these costs. As well as the need for an agrarian reform that limits the powers and properties of the latifundistas, the Casa de Alba and other noble titles - as you well know, I will not tell you, comrade Diego Cañamero -; by the way, Diego: Bodalo, liberté! [[Applauds]] To point out Catalonia as insolidary, as the presidents of some autonomous communities have continually done, is to protect the great powers, which are the true masters of the land, and to condemn them to a subsidiary and cliential economic and fiscal structure of the government, whether one or the other, rather than ensuring their economic and social progress. I'm done. For all this, from solidarity with the other peoples and with the other nations of the State, we trust that the constitution of the Catalan Republic will provoke a constituent process in the State that will restore dignity to all peoples without exception. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u101	Thank you very much. I ask Mr López Milla whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u102	Yes, we will accept the Citizens' Amendment and Amendment No 3 of the Confederal Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate May-In-Sea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u103	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in common, be invited to attend to the comprehensive reform of the system of paternity and maternity leave and benefits for the care and care of minors in the event of birth, adoption or reception. [[File number 162/000147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u104	We move on to the last non-law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the comprehensive reform of the system of paternity and maternity leave and benefits for the care and care of minors in cases of birth, adoption or reception. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u105	Thank you, President. A little more equality is not equality. This sentence has been with me ever since I entered Congress in the past brief term of office, in a space in which this contradiction is continuously lived and inspired by the policy that is intended and how it is done. That is why I am proud today, they do not know to what extent, to defend this non-legislative proposal for a comprehensive reform of the system of paternity and maternity leave and benefits in the event of birth, adoption or reception that is intransferable, 100 per cent remunerated and equal. I am proud that this is one of the first proposals that the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea brings here, precisely because there are things that with a lot of feminist struggle have gone on, and that women's rights cannot continue to wait for a better time. I am proud to do so right here, where this maxim was defended by Clara Campoamor, who perhaps names the most discreet and hidden room of these buildings and the only room, by the way, with a woman's name. A little more equality is not equality. This sentence I started with I listened to Maria Pazos months ago. It was at a breakfast in this very house that organized the PPiiNA platform, of which today many companions accompany us. It is with them and with them that we defend this non-law proposal today. [[Applauds]] We propose this reform because the current regulation of permits leads to the permanence and deepening of an imbalance. Women are absent from their jobs - we are absent - and we take full - time care of our creatures, at least for sixteen weeks of maternity leave. What happens next, given the lack of alternatives, is that many prolong it with surpluses, shorter working hours or even abandon and give up their jobs altogether. Men, on the other hand, are currently only entitled to two weeks of paternity leave. The imbalances are not only in the relational sphere, in the family sphere. If we want to talk about a productive model, we need to take some data into account. According to a report by the International Labour Organization, published in 2014, 45% of Spanish women do not return to their jobs after maternity, 35% go to part-time work and 7% lose their jobs. Moreover, all women of childbearing age - not just mothers - are affected by a phenomenon known as statistical discrimination. Companies know that there is a high probability that women will decrease their commitment to maternity employment, while in most men this increases. Women, in general, appear as - again to quote - 'high-risk workforce', seeing themselves reduced to unskilled and easy-to-replace jobs, which is an important cause of higher rates of underemployment, unemployment and inactivity and which explains the generation of a glass ceiling, largely in the workplace, by not having access to positions of greater decision-making or power and not having many women referents who have been able to do so. The labour force survey in the second quarter of 2016 places the female unemployment rate at 21.82 %, three and a half points above the male unemployment rate. In this way, the gender pay gap, precariousness and feminization of poverty are maintained. We found a sex-segregated labour market, vertical and horizontal, and therefore inefficient. All this results in a serious misappropriation of women's employment potential, which also results in losses to the public sector in terms of taxes and uncollected social contributions. We know that if women were to earn the same as men, the European Union's gross domestic product would rise by 13%. These are the economic considerations, because it needs to be assessed in this way; therefore, we need to specify that the economic cost of this necessary comprehensive reform must be assessed, as in everything else. But there are more languages and more prisms that you can't bargain with. We are talking about women's right not to have a differentiating look on us that makes us be, because of being women and potential mothers, treated differently. We talk about that we have the right as workers to have the same opportunities, not to be socially circumscribed to the domestic sphere or to have to be real juggling heroes if we want to have a family and be treated like our male coworkers. [[Applauds]] If I had a chance right now, I would project a vignette of Moderna de pueblo, which seems to me to explain this very well, in which there appears a man dressed as executive telling his partner about the mobile phone that is not going to arrive in time and she, also dressed as executive, also with a briefcase, answers, while she has the child in her arms, she is frying some eggs, she also carries another briefcase, and she is ironing: Quiet, I can with everything. It's not a compliment to be a superwoman, it's a real trap. [[Applauds]] It is also necessary to talk about the right of persons with paternity leave, which is not only for parents but also for same-sex couples who also have to share their paternity and motherhood. It is not fair that, on the same basis, they cannot enjoy the same duration of a permit, because we know that in the countries where this has been implemented, reference countries often in this room such as Sweden or Iceland, it is shown that parents take such permits and society there advances in how they understand care and how they understand equality. We also need to talk about the rights of children to be cared for by both parents on equal terms during their first months of life, because it is very important that we understand that life and experience are measured in the productive and the reproductive, but also from the relational and the affective, which configures us and builds us as people. We defend that these permits are non-transferable, just as we defend their radical equality. What other right is transferable? Have you tried to transfer your right to education or your right to health? Have you tried to transfer your right to vacation or retirement? How can we name a transferee as a labour law? [[Applauds]] And, above all, why exactly is this an exception? We understand that this equal right in permits is urgent, because it is so demanded from civil society, from organized platforms, from in-depth studies, that they do not think that they are precisely recent - this has been being asked for a long time - and that it only makes sense if it really is equal and it is intransferable, because the patriarchal dynamics of our society to the contrary will continue to place on women the burden of childcare care and will continue to place us with a broken foot in the domestic sphere, although they ask us from a speech that we are also as one more in the public sphere. We present a path that will lead us to reach the sixteen weeks of paternity leave that treats the progenitors equally; we do not trust it to an uncertain future nor do we want to wait for the already will be seen, to which we have been postponed so many times when we present feminist demands. Here and now we say it is urgent because this is about changing the productive model and the country we want. I'm closing up. Today we have the opportunity to do something that guarantees us that we live in a society that is truly and decisively moving towards equality. Today we can decide that women workers are not discriminated against because they are women and potentially mothers with treatment other than male workers. Today we can decide that those who have paternity leave can enjoy this leave on equal terms, because equality is not just a thing of women. Equality concerns society as a whole. We can decide today on a happier, fairer immediate future that will allow us to be a better society. I ask every Member of this House to vote today on what is in this House; to vote today on his sons or daughters, even you have ever been a son or daughter, and to think about that future, because I assure you that I will vote on my son and the just and equal future that I want for him. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u106	For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Barandiaran Benito is speaking first of all by the Vasco PNV Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of the reconciliation between professional, private and family life, effective gender equality, the promotion of co-responsibility within the family unit, the reduction of the gender pay gap and the prevention of the statistical risk of work involving less pay or loss of work for women, but also the serious demographic challenge, on the one hand, or the future of the pension system, on the other, are all elements that cannot be overlooked in a debate like this. Because this debate, ladies and gentlemen, has to do with the future of the welfare state and the future - as my colleague has said - of a more just state. The regulation of parental rights is not new, but in the form of the right to paternity benefits it is more or less recent. It began with Law 12/2001, with certain rights to be absent from work; it continued with Law 3/2007, for the effective equality of women and men, which added Article 48 to the Workers' Statute to recognize the thirteen-day leave that is now in force; and it continued with Law 9/2009, in which that right was extended to four weeks even though - as you know, ladies and gentlemen - that right has not yet become effective, since it will theoretically come into force on 1 January 2017. But it is not the only legal reality nor is it the only one in context; the context of discrimination, the context of parenthood is also a fact of our most immediate environment, the European environment. The European Council adopted a Directive, on 2010/18, on 8 March 2010, agreeing to implement the revised framework agreement on parental leave. In addition, the European Parliament, in another resolution of 20 October 2010, adopted a resolution aimed at promoting maternity leave protection throughout the European Union up to 20 weeks with 100 per cent pay. In Europe there is also a disparity, in this legislative case, and the realities are very different in terms of the benefits that are recognised in the different systems. But that reality has also been reviewed or analysed by the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Security recently in a report of 5 April 2016, which is an assessment of the implementation of that previous directive and which I would simply like to highlight some of its paragraphs. It notes, above all, that a decade after the implementation of a directive, the gender imbalance between the use of parental leave continues. He considered that remuneration during parental leave was a decisive factor in ensuring that low-income parents and single-parent families could enjoy the same benefits on equal terms. The Commission also considers that it should propose measures to encourage parents to make greater use of parental leave and calls on the social partners to be involved in this debate on the basis of the recognition that the directive has not achieved its objectives, and also believes that this is contrary to the values of the European Union. The report continues with criticism of over-regulation by Member States, which produces different regulations and complexities that are difficult to overcome. It calls for measures to ensure that the content of the directive is implemented both in the public and private spheres and points out that satisfactory agreements on parental leave are closely linked to adequate compensation for parental leave. Ladies and gentlemen, all these reasons which the European Union already contemplates in its Committee on Employment and Social Security are ours and are some of the reasons why we affirm our support for this non-legislative proposal, which also deserves our approval because it addresses the issue of labour legislation, but from another axis: from the point of view of equality not only between genders but also in the field of family reconciliation. This leads us to another different issue, which is that of co-responsibility, which must be a factor that decisively influences the statistical risk women face in accessing and developing their working lives, but precisely in order to overcome it. Another reason we agree with is that of intransferability, which must be understood as a factor that prevents the barrier of equality from being broken. If we do not prevent the transfer of the period of attention to women, it will be these who again bear that burden. For the same reason - and at this point we have wanted to make a precision through an amendment - we understand that the enjoyment of parental leave cannot be simultaneous. In our view, matching favourable parental measures over time, apart from at least the first few weeks, would once again trigger the process of women taking on the role of child care. Finally, we add one last consideration, and that is that any of these proposals must be sustainable. It is necessary to know a timetable for its implementation linked to the knowledge of the actual costs of the measures to be taken. We will therefore support this non-legislative proposal, knowing that some of our amendments have been accepted by the proposers.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u108	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Faba de la Encarnación has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, has anyone wondered what the challenges of 21st century couples are? Until a few years ago women fought for access to work; now we left our skin competing with men in a theoretical equality of opportunity and conditions. At the same time, the formulas of coexistence have undergone a parallel revolution. Women have gone a long way in claiming. Few social movements have had such profound repercussions for so many, because they affect matters as daily and essential in daily life as relationships. The mix of roles and birth control have broken the playing rules of traditional family coexistence. Today, when women's participation in the labour market is 80%, our birth rate is one of the lowest on this planet. The world is changing. Women's work ambition is one of the new challenges. This is why professional and personal reconciliation is important, as well as equal access to the world of work. Neither as one nor as another; for what we are, we bring and value. That's all. This affects us all: men, women, parents, mothers of new generations who want to develop our professions and enjoy our time and our families. But to do that, we have to make changes and we have to make them all together. This is one of the great challenges of today's couples, of families, of society. We need changes that respond more to the current social and economic reality; we are convinced that real and effective reconciliation requires multiple actions. We need to promote cultural change in boys and girls, educating them from children without discrimination and for equality, promoting the visibility of new female models to follow, incorporating reconciliation measures with a more compact and flexible working day, enhancing the option of telework, firmly betting on the schooling of children between zero and three years, encouraging companies to apply good practices of flexibility in working hours. Obviously, the current regulation of parental leave is obsolete and does not respond to the aspirations and needs of the citizenry. Today a couple who decide to have children in Spain knows that they have a maximum of sixteen weeks' leave, six of which are mandatory for the woman and only ten can be given or shared with the father. With the proposal of Citizens, that same couple would spend eight weeks in transferable... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u110	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u111	Thank you, Madam President. As I was saying, with the proposal of Citizens, that same couple would go on to enjoy eight weeks in transferable for each of the parents, with ten additional weeks later shared between the two, up to a total of twenty-six. This would increase co-responsibility among parents, help reduce discrimination against women in the labour market and facilitate better work reconciliation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two documents here that I am sure many of you will know. What I am not clear is whether the proposing group of the initiative, the Group of the United-May-May-In-Sea-In-Communicate Poems, will have at some point read these two documents. You have read them or not, you have voted against the measures included here. [[Show a document]] This first document - it will be familiar to you - signed in February this year by the group to which I represent, Citizens, and the Socialist Group, Agreement for a Reformist and Progress Government, on its page 38 incorporated this proposal, taken from the Citizens programme, as signed with the Socialist Party. [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] The Podemos Group voted against this measure and at that time preferred to continue with eighteen weeks, rather than the twenty-six weeks that we intend to implement. Second document, 150 commitments to improve Spain - you too will be familiar with this document - incorporated the adoption of the necessary measures to equalize the permissions of parents. [[Show another document]] [[Addressing the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party voted against this proposal. Yes, you also voted against, this one and this one, both of you, both included it. For Citizens, this measure is a priority. That is why we demand their incorporation into the two pacts, both with the Socialist Party and with the People's Party. What degree of priority do you have for you? Have you voted against it twice and now put forward a non-legislative proposal? Our group has tabled an amendment because its initiative is not even concrete. They talk about creating a calendar until they reach sixteen weeks. I am surprised by the urgency mentioned by Mrs Fernández. A three-month, three-year, thirty-year calendar of how much? There's a lot of difference. You speak of the future; we speak of the present, because inequalities are increasing and cannot wait. It is this and now because, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want women to give us anything because they are women, but we do not want them to take it away because they are women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u112	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the organizations that make up the PPiiNA platform that today accompany us in the guest gallery their work of social pedagogy to make understand the importance of equalizing maternity and paternity leave. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group we have had a clear vocation to recognise an autonomous paternity permit from the mother. This right came from the hand of the Equality Act that launched the socialist government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. We are talking about a right for mothers and fathers that becomes an instrument for promoting equality and that contributes to a shift towards less sexist attitudes. We are all aware that a permit that is equal does justice and that is intransferable makes it a strategic part of equality policies. It cannot be that only 1.8% of male parents assume any of the 10 weeks of transferable maternity leave. This evidence shows that transferability is not useful for equality and that volunteering does not work, because it is not alien to corporate and social pressures. Both play against women and against equality. Our electoral program is committed to compulsory and non-transferable permits. Yours, Mrs. Fernández Castañón, too. Both groups want to move towards ten weeks per parent and we have no disagreement on this issue. We have the same vocation, the same objective and the same commitment. However, we have tabled two amendments to them. Neither your election program nor ours - I have to admit - set a timetable. The proposal you have tabled here today, too. That is why we may have to start by doing the most urgent thing, which is to comply with the Equality Act by ending the suspension that prevents parents from enjoying the four weeks already recognized by the law today. The next Government must put an end to this non-compliance now. Then comes the next step, which is the creation of a timetable to get to the equal and non-transferable permit and to do the calculations on economic viability. If the timetable for implementation is left in the air and funding is not committed, what we are doing here this afternoon will be a mere declaration of intent. That is why, although we will vote in favour, the Socialist Group undertakes to consider in the framework of the Toledo Pact how to integrate the improvement of protective action in the face of the new realities to which social security must respond. This is how we will be able to define a concrete timetable and budget for the gradual implementation of these permits. On the other hand, we Socialists believe that there is a great need for another type of benefit. We have already introduced initiatives to address the fact that we currently have a third of births that do not generate any maternity or paternity benefits. This case and others have been neglected in this proposal. From the Socialist Party we want to recognise specific maternity benefits for young job seekers even if they have not contributed. Our second amendment refers to point 4 of your initiative. You ask to change the name of the maternity and paternity leave and propose to replace it with a new qualification that says and I quote literally: Permits and benefits for the care and care of minors by their caregivers in the event of birth, adoption and reception. Why are we submitting an amendment to this point? It is true that the administrative forms at the moment are not adapting their terminology to the new realities of marriage and coexistence, but we think that this cannot be supplied with a name change that, by introducing the concept of caregivers as subjects of law, opens the door to too wide an indefinition. Caretaker, ladies and gentlemen, she may be a third person with or without ties to the minor. We therefore propose to them to seek a term that gives legal guarantees, that does not give rise to dubious interpretations and, above all, that does not open a way of fraud to co-responsibility policies. I will not deny to you, ladies and gentlemen - and I want to make this very clear - that this group is very concerned about the use of neologisms and neologisms that make the concept of mother or father disappear from the legislation and that disassociates them from the rights that assist them. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. This goal is shared. It is a necessary advance for Spanish society, for women and men, for families and for the change of business culture in this country. This model of permits is essential for Spain in the 21st century because it represents a model change that will modernize society and promote birth in a country that is bleeding in terms of population decline. The State must assume its co-responsibility in care, but also in promoting co-responsibility in the private and business spheres, and it must do so because, ladies and gentlemen, it is viable, socially beneficial and a key element for equality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Reina has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u114	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that progress in all matters of conciliation and co-responsibility in improving the systems of leave for childcare is an objective that we certainly share with all the groups in this House; mine too, the Group of the European People's Party as well. Look at whether we absolutely agree in this motion that in the one hundred and fifty commitments of the document that the People's Party and Citizens signed to improve Spain, in the part of conciliation and family was already said - and it was agreed - to adopt the necessary measures with the aim of matching paternity permits to those of maternity in the coming years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely the amendment that the Group of the European People's Party has tabled to this GNP, where there is absolutely no question - I would like to make it very clear to you - of the equivalence between paternity and maternity leave. We are absolutely in favour; but, of course, we must be serious and responsible. That is to say, this measure - as has already been said - has an economic cost, so it must also be analysed from the economic point of view. If the paternity permit is increased from the current almost two weeks to the sixteen weeks, this has a cost increase of 1.5 billion euros; we would move from the current 200 million euros to 1.7 billion euros. There is no talk of cost in GNP at any time. We already know how some of them work: wonderful promises that are then unfulfilled; because, ladies and gentlemen, there is no free everything, all free in the end has cost and can come out very expensive and, if not, ask the pensioners of Greece. We must be serious, honest and responsible. It has already been said that the place to study this measure, which we share, is within the Toledo Pact, the framework for the sustainability and financial balance of social security. There will be the People's Party. With regard to the Socialist Party, it is true that it passed a law establishing a two- to four-week increase in paternity leave, a law that it passed in October 2009 so that it would enter into force in January 2011, a law that they were not able to implement themselves when they ruled by management at the time of Mr Zapatero. We are going to abstain in this proposal, not in law, because we agree in substance, but not in form. We will do so on account of responsibility and budget in the Toledo Pact. But I want to give you a thought. I am convinced that when there is political will, when there is good management and when there is a budget, there can be progress on an equal footing, which is what we have done since the People's Party when we approved the maternity supplement. In the explanatory statement, Ms Podemos' deputy said that women were high-risk labour for maternity and that there was a wage gap. It is true, and from the People's Party we were aware that there were many women in this country, many working mothers, who had had to stop working to take care of their children, to take care of their children, or who had to use the part-time contract in order to be able to work as mothers, and as a result they have shorter contributory careers and 38% lower pensions than men. That is why a law has been passed by the People's Party to ensure that mothers who have stopped working to care for their children see now, when they retire, their pension increased by 5, 10 or 15% depending on the number of children they have had. We said it and we did it, not like others, who pass a law but don't put it into effect. We approved it in an amendment to the budgets and on 1 January 2016 this measure was in force. There are already more than 112,000 women who have been able to benefit from an increase of up to 15% because they were women, because they had children and because they worked. This is doing social justice and not mouthing. This is a real recognition of the efforts of women, the contribution of women, mothers, society and the sustainability of the social security system. These are the measures of the People's Party: higher pensions for more children and higher pensions for working women in this country. There is also a small detail - I finish, Madam President -. Before, when this measure was adopted, there was Government and there were budgets. Now, because of the political blockade, we have a government in place and we have extended budgets. It is thus difficult for this country to make progress on something, not on equality and conciliation. Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u115	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. The initiative put forward by Mrs Fernández Castañón deals with the impetus for a comprehensive plan of support for families aimed at deepening effective measures to promote reconciliation and, in particular, work permits for the care and care of children, extending parental rights and protective action. They are objectives that we all share with total certainty, and here the different spokespersons have reiterated this. However, the proposed reform sets out with several points a number of conditions which, due to their very high costs to date, and with almost 20% unemployment rate, would disrupt the progress on equality, conciliation and co-responsibility that has already been achieved and that they have not been able to go further because they themselves need an important economic benefit that affects the social security budgets. All that is to extend the benefits involves deducting from other social security funds. In this respect, it is appropriate to recall that in Spain we have accumulated a major deficit which can only be reduced with greater job creation, the great objective of our country and whose contributions are those which enable us to face the well-being of citizens with protective measures ranging from economic measures, including pensions, to health protection measures or the care of minors. The proposal does not reveal where the important funds to tackle the reform and the timetable for its implementation would now come from in order to achieve these objectives. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u117	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u118	Therefore, Madam President, if it is not clear where we are going to get the financial resources from, my vote will be abstaining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u119	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u120	President, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally bringing to the debate equal and non-transferable permits. That the family responsibilities in the Spanish State are basically assumed by women is nothing new. For every man who leaves work for family responsibilities, he is left twenty-seven women. This creates a wage gap, creates inequalities in retirement pensions, and giving alms, giving a year's contribution is not enough. Women's retirement pensions are 400 euros lower than men's pensions, so it is not enough to give alms. There are these permits that create inequality and this inequality is out of political will. We are suspending the Community directives on permits. The European Union recognizes birth and adoption permits as an individual right. As the partner of Podemos said, individual rights are, for example, education or health. Can you imagine what would happen if they were transferable or if we were to compute them at a family level? We could be entitled, for example, to a family heart attack; or we could be entitled to schooling for one person per family, or a flu per year. Rights cannot be limited by economic interests and if no right is transferable, why does the right of parents to care for their descendants have to be? This inequality, as I said before, is out of political will. Moreover, we tighten our belts when the European Union asks, we tighten it with cuts but we do not do it with rights; we want to be full European citizenship also with rights, we want freer women, we want men who have the right to be parents, we want equal families regardless of their composition. Ending this inequality is fundamental, we have to recognize rights and equip them economically. This inequality is out of political will, I said earlier; therefore, we have the option today to make it possible for our sons and daughters to have a full and dignified family life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u121	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. Greetings, of course, to the people who accompany us from PPiiNA and thank you for your efforts, which we have known for a long time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u123	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u124	Let's vote yes, of course. We will vote yes by history, first of all, because it was our Member Mercè Pigem in 2007 who, by amendment, introduced the four weeks of parental leave, a measure that has never entered into force because successive governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party postponed it in successive annual budgets. We will vote yes because it was also the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia in the X Legislature that submitted a non-legislative motion in the Commission in these terms, which was adopted unanimously, and because we too presented an inquiry to the Minister of Health and a consistent motion in the same sense. We did not succeed that day, the People's Party - which is abstaining today - voted not to the same extent. We are therefore in favour of ensuring that paternity and maternity leave are equivalent between both parents. The equalization of the rights of men who are parents with the rights of women who are mothers seems obvious and logical to us. Therefore, it has to be an equal permit, a sixteen-week permit, with the same social foresight and, moreover, non-transferable and that cannot be enjoyed simultaneously. Intransferable, yes, ladies and gentlemen, because when the permit is transferable it is the women who receive it eminently and we do not move forward, let us not deceive ourselves. The right must belong to each of the contributors, to the father or mother, depending on the family. Caring is a right of men and is a right of women, being cared for is a right of children and being cared for by both parents is also a right of children. We therefore need these permits as a measure of support for effective equality, equal opportunities. Don't forget, this is a measure that will undoubtedly help increase the birth rate at a time when it is reaching its lowest levels, thus endangering future contributions. Therefore, they have our yes, I repeat, and let us hope that we will pull this measure forward, although in it we have missed the eight-year temporalization. We would set it at a maximum of eight years and that this could be progressively implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the PPiiNA Association who are with us today, we give our support to an initiative which our parliamentary group appreciates for its great importance and which implies a great step forward, especially in equality policies: the comprehensive reform of the system of paternity and maternity leave and benefits for the care and care of minors in cases of birth, adoption and reception. A broad theme. On this subject we are still far from achieving the gender parity that we always preach. Although in 2009 the law was passed in which the paternity permit went from two weeks to four, it has not yet been implemented. So we are light years away from what we see elsewhere. In fact, only Sweden today has an equal permit, followed by Norway where the father is entitled to twelve weeks of leave and the mother to forty-six, both with one hundred per cent of the guaranteed salary. Equalizing the system of maternity and paternity leave and benefits means eliminating the gender criterion traditionally assigned to the mother by the responsibility for the care of minors. Therefore, this proposal affects the equal co-responsibility of the care and care of minors to the group of members that make up the family nucleus, a family nucleus that encompasses different models of family but also complex family environments that would need to be considered in an in-depth debate since the function of care and care does not necessarily always fall on the same parents. For this reason, we understand and share the proposed name change: maternity and paternity leave for permits and allowances for the care and care of minors by their caregivers in the event of birth, adoption or reception. For this reason, it is also essential that the permit is non-transferable, as has already been mentioned here, in order to avoid what has always been done so far, to place the primary responsibility for the care and care of minors on women. I insist, with this proposal, the gender criterion would disappear with regard to the care and care of minors and, instead, the principle criterion of co-responsibility and equality of caregivers is established. On the other hand, the imbalance in the current regulation of the duration of permits according to gender not only perpetuates inequality in the responsibilities of care and care of minors between men and women, but also has harmful effects on their working environment. Many companies refuse to hire women or to pay them the same salary for the expense of the maternity period. They are considered, as already mentioned, high-risk labour, as they are forced to assume full-time responsibility for care and care for a prolonged period of time. This further deepens the gender-based labour discrimination that affects aspects such as the wage gap, precariousness, female poverty, as well as a gender-segregated labour market. With the equivalent of sixteen weeks of care and care permits for both men and women, preventing them from being transferable, with a 100 per cent benefit from the regulatory base and with equal protection of their jobs, look, women would no longer be the only one affected by possible employment discrimination, but the family group, i.e. the pressure would no longer be placed on women but on the whole family environment. When we move from a gender issue to a broader social problem, of work reconciliation and which affects men and women equally, we will not be able to place the burden of a lack of reconciliation solely on families, let alone on women. Indeed, one of the main purposes of work conciliation is to enable women and men to be included in the labour market without any inequality and, in this regard, we have not yet dealt seriously with the discussion of work conciliation with personal and family life. Working flexibility in the Spanish case continues to be difficult to implement. According to a study of the evolution of the European family, the timetables have a rigidity of more than 88 %; instead, they begin to highlight countries such as Finland or Sweden, whose timetables are adapting to the needs of workers and their personal lives. Precisely, the Parliament of Catalonia is about to present a new law of hourly reform and during this political course a national pact with entities to adapt the working hours and thus improve the work reconciliation. Before I finish, I would like to launch a final reflection which I am addressing above all to the men of this House. How many of us in this room would be willing today to apply for a paternity permit of sixteen weeks for the care and care of children? Why do men even now think that our work is more important than that of women? In fact, this is the real substantive debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u127	Thank you very much. A compromise amendment to this non-legislative proposal, signed by Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Socialist Group and the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, has been received in the Bureau. I ask Mrs Fernández Castañón whether she accepts the compromise amendment. If there is no opposition, we would vote on the terms of the transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u128	We accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u129	Thank you very much. We call for a vote, starting in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, before voting begins, I would like to announce that the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, an organic amendment to the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, has been withdrawn in order to reduce the duration of electoral campaigns in cases of automatic dissolution of the Chambers, pursuant to Article 99.5 of the Constitution. This proposal will therefore not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u131	We begin the voting. We vote first of all to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic reform of Organic Law 2/2012, of 27 April, on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 258 against, 18 abstentions, 65 votes in favour, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u132	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u133	We now proceed to vote on the agreement for the direct and single reading of the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes, plus 1 telematic vote, 338; in favour, 268; against, 16; abstentions, 53, plus 1 telematic vote, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u134	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u135	We then proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Organic Congress amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, for the assumption of automatic call for elections under article 99, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 339, plus 1 telematic vote, 340; in favour, 339, plus 1 telematic vote, 340.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u136	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u137	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agreement for the direct and single reading of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, in the event of an automatic call for elections under the provisions of article 99, paragraph 5, of the Constitution. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 338, plus 1 telematic vote, 339; in favour, 331; and 1 telematic vote, 332; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u138	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u139	We then proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the debate. Firstly, the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal on the initiation of the procedure for the reform of the autonomous financing system. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into point 2 and the amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 319 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u140	It's approved. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in common, be invited to attend to the comprehensive reform of the system of paternity and maternity leave and benefits for the care and care of minors in the event of birth, adoption or reception. [[File number 162/000147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u141	We then vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the comprehensive reform of the system of maternity and paternity leave and benefits for the care and care of minors in cases of birth, adoption or reception. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 173 against, 2 abstentions, 164.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-18-CD161018.u142	It's approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended. It was eight and forty minutes of the night.
