ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, I ask Dona Carlota Merchán Mesón if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u3	Thank you very much and congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u4	We begin with the first item on the agenda, on the debate to take account of the proposed law of the Courts of Aragon, which amends the Civil Code in relation to personal status and civil neighbourhood. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Courts of Aragon who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and to whom, on behalf of the whole House, I welcome. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Herrero Herrero. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u5	Thank you, President. It is an honour to rise to this rostrum in this first intervention of the initiative that opens the first ordinary plenary session of the legislature. I am speaking as a representative of the Courts of Aragon and as a Member of the Aragonese Party, in addition to the initiative we are defending today. This is one of so many contributions that this small great party, the PAR, with our unique option of being center aragonists, without losing the sense of state and from this land of noble people - the old Kingdom of Aragon, a thousand-year-old people of deep roots, unquestionable historical nationality - we have made Spain and the Spanish. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u7	In Aragon, to speak of identity is to speak of our own right, of the foral right that has historically presided over our coexistence, as the distinguished Joaquín Costa said. The Aragonese we define ourselves by our law, so it has been for a thousand years and so we the Aragonese today feel. We are a society in which the inspiring principles of our foral right - the covenant, freedom and loyalty - have become defining features of our collective and identity personality. They can recognize these guiding principles in our most recent history and day by day in the socio-political becoming of Aragon with Spain. Today we come here to talk about civil neighbourhood and to propose a change in the Civil Code, a change, in our opinion, very sensible. I'm sure a lot of people aren't aware of their civilian neighborhood and the usefulness of it. On many occasions it is not known, until one takes the surprise - especially in the case of having lost the original neighborhood to an hereditary matter, to a matrimonial economic regime, to a widowhood or to a family regime - that the civil laws that affect him are not those that he believed. In Spain, common law coexists with foreign law, especially in those territories which, by virtue of their history, have it. In Aragon, in addition to preserving our foral right, we have developed it and have our own laws of personal effectiveness that apply day by day and have their impact on everyday aspects of people. Here is our Code of Aragonese Criminal Law. [[Show a copy]] These are our laws, these are the laws that apply to the Aragonese, to the Aragonese with civilian neighbourhood; these and not others, and these we want to continue to apply to them. It is not simply a matter of permanence in our legislation of very ancient institutions such as trust, succession pact or universal widowhood; it is also a matter of laws as avant-garde or current as the Law known as shared custody, also promoted by the Aragonese Party, with which, as you know, we were pioneers in Aragon. They are laws, all of them, that affect people according to their civilian neighbourhood and not according to where they live. According to the Civil Code, the civil neighbourhood, among other things, is acquired by continued residence of ten years without declaration to the contrary during that period. This is totally unwarranted, it is unwarranted that, automatically, the civilian neighbourhood that has previously been lost since silence, ignorance and involuntaryity, without any investigation as to whether or not to change the legal regime and personal status, will be lost. We also propose, in connection with the acquisition of the civilian neighbourhood of the children, that, after the age of fourteen and until five years have elapsed since their emancipation, they may choose not only the last civilian neighbourhood of any of their parents, but also the civilian neighbourhood that they might originally have had. Children should be able to retain the option of claiming their foreign origin regardless of whether their parents have moved to another community. In addition, we propose a transitional regime so that all those who have lost their civilian neighbourhood without wishing to do so can recover it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a sparsely populated and extensive autonomous community, and we do not like conflicts, but we stubbornly defend the just causes when we feel unduly aggrieved or threatened. Just now - this month - twelve and ten years ago, respectively, that a delegation of the Aragonese Parliament - like today - defended in this rostrum proposals, demanding fair financial treatment for Aragon. Ladies and gentlemen, we were right, and that is what we are left with. We offer you, for you to make it your own, this beloved and so loyal principle: standum est chartae, to be on the same footing, so that today, in addition to giving us reason, you offer us the commitment to carry out this modification effectively with the nuances that, of course, you may consider in its processing. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I hope you will treat this proposal with affection and affection, and I would especially like to greet the Aragonese Members of Parliament, the Aragonese Senators and the delegation of the Courts of Aragon who are accompanying us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u8	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Briz Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour to defend Aragon's proposal in the Congress of Deputies at a key political moment in which the institutional architecture of Spain is being debated. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Following the wake of relevant Aragonese comrades who have left their mark in this House as José Antonio Labordeta, Chesús Yuste and dear Emilio Gastón, I address you. I think it is absolutely unnecessary to highlight the importance of Aragonese foreign law, a symbol of the Aragonese identity for Aragon. I want to go back to when Philip V repealed the Aragon furies in 1707 for the right of conquest. At that time, Aragon disappeared as a political subject - very modern this concept -; it ceased to be an independent country, it was incorporated into Castile. At that time, Aragon lost its own institutions: the Courts, the Kingdom Council, Justice, our financial law, our local law; in short, public law, something we managed to recover a few years ago. But civil law, the law that regulates the relations of individuals with each other, we never lost it. We Aragonese have never regulated ourselves by a different right from ours; never, despite being an independent country as I said before, with the outlaws and observances then, with the appendix and then with the compilation, then with laws passed in these Courts, and finally, with the Code of Criminal Law, which we come here today to defend. So, of course, it is something essential in the legal life and daily life of the Aragonese, although the Spanish Constitution attributes, in article 149.1.8.a, to the autonomous communities 'the conservation, modification and development... of civil rights, outside or special, where they exist', as is the case with Aragonese foreign law. There is also a reservation and exclusive competence of the State to resolve conflicts of interregional laws that may exist. The Supreme Court in repeated judgements has stated that the rules on civil neighbourhoods are imperative in nature, so that the acquisition, loss and change of neighbourhoods are governed by the rules set out in the preliminary title of the Civil Code. In any case, this bill seeks to amend the Spanish Civil Code, which is why it must be dealt with in this Chamber. This is a positive law for the Aragonese and Aragonese of the present and future. There are a hundred thousand affected by the loss of civilian neighbourhood at this time. The aim of this proposal for a law is that the civilian neighbourhood should not be lost unintentionally, ladies and gentlemen, but that it should only be possible to acquire a civilian neighbourhood voluntarily, that is to say, that it should not be lost directly, without knowing it, by continued residence of ten years, and that it should be possible to acquire only a civilian neighbourhood, and logically to lose the one at that time, with will, with a declaration of will after two years of residence. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what is proposed is to change the regime, that there is only the voluntary acquisition of the civilian neighbourhood and that there is no involuntary loss of it. In any case, we find the reform of article 14.3 very interesting, so that the loss of the civil neighborhood by the parents does not influence the child, that the child can continue to recover the Aragonese civil neighborhood lost by the parents, what we said about the right of blood. This proposal is shared by Chunta Aragonesista, but we thought there was a part missing. In any case, the future was solved, no one would lose in the future without wanting the civilian neighbourhood, but the situation of those Aragonese and Aragonese who had already lost their neighbourhood by continuing residence for more than ten years outside Aragon, even without knowing it. We have already made an amendment to the Aragonese Communities Act through a transaction. An additional fourth provision was made that the necessary actions should be promoted in order to enable those who have lost the Aragonese civilian neighbourhood to recover it. Nothing had been done yet and today is when this legal provision is to be implemented. In short, what must be taken into consideration today in order to ensure that it is not lost involuntarily, as the Aragonese Party proposed, is that it can be recovered, as proposed by Chunta Aragonesista, through a legal security regime with three requirements: that it be recorded in the Civil Registry, must not be repeated and of course... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u10	One second, Mr. Briz. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Go on, Mr. Briz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u11	He said that it should not be repeated and, lastly, it cannot be revoked once the statement has been made. I'm done. This is what we should consider today. It's a very important law. We are talking about something that, as I say, we have been putting forward for fifteen years in the Aragonese Parliament and which has a great impact on the age of majority, on marriage, on the conjugal consortium, on trust, on widowhood, etc. I would like to thank the Aragonese Parliamentary Group for this proposal and for the amendments most supported in the Aragonese Parliament. He wanted to end with an Aragonese myth, which is Joaquín Costa, who in a corner of the world, in Graus, for most of his life shouted the truths and represented the insurmountable punk of the Aragonese archetype. When they took him to Madrid to bury him, they stayed him in Torrero, and Bescós dedicated this epitaph to him that I want to read to you so that this does not happen here: 'Aragon to Joaquín Costa. New Moses of a Spain in exodus. With the rod of his inflamed verb he lit the fountain of living waters in the barren desert. He devised laws - as we bring them from Aragon - to lead his people to the promised land.' The thing is, he didn't legislate. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u12	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Vallés Cases.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I share with my fellow Members of the Courts of Aragon the sense of responsibility and the honour of being able to address all of you, representatives of national sovereignty, this afternoon. As my colleagues have already brilliantly explained, our role here is simple and complicated at the same time. It is simple because it is a matter of defending a unanimous agreement of the Courts of Aragon of 4 December 2014, which approved this bill, and we defend it with political, historical and legal arguments. And it is complicated because we must convince them to take them into consideration at a time of complexity in the political balances of this House. We are aware that we are talking about the timely amendment of the Civil Code, and both you and we are aware of parliamentary legislative tactics. But this cannot cause us to break down either you or us, given the importance of this initiative. So I ask you to vote in favour and, if possible, the unanimity achieved in Aragon. This initiative, as has already been said, aims to modify certain criteria for the acquisition and variation of the civil neighbourhood, with a fundamental and main purpose, such as to adapt its regulation to our reality and social awareness. Today no one can defend that the personal status of any citizen can be changed without the citizen having expressed his or her will in this regard, simply because of the passage of time and his or her residence in another territory. We must remember that civil neighbourhood along with nationality are the legal concepts that determine our personal status. As we all know, to acquire a nationality or to lose the existing one, a clear manifestation of the will is always required. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time the civil neighbourhood was included in the current Civil Code of 1889, as a criterion for the defence and maintenance of the use of foreign rights, before the French centralist current of single codification of civil law, in such a way that the civil neighborhood determines the application of civil law to each Spanish citizen, whether that is the common civil law or any of the foreign rights in force in Spain. With this regulation, outside law becomes personal and non-territorial, something that is maintained in our 1978 Constitution, clearly distinguishing the civil neighbourhood of the administrative neighborhood, which does have a fundamentally territorial component, as it could not otherwise be, because it includes the regulation of political rights and administrative action, outside rights that, far from being reminiscences of the past, remain in force, are developed, some codified and rooted in the tradition and custom of much of the Spaniards. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, 194 deputies of these Courts have civilian neighbourhoods in a territory with foreign law or represent territories where foreign law regulates important areas of the person, of family relations, of the economic-marital regime, of successions or of certain real rights. We are talking about ensuring that legal institutions, such as the succession pact or the Aragonese widowhood usufruct, the economic regime for the separation of Catalan property, the balear estage, the administration of goods from the absent or Galician neighbourhood, the family unity and the regime of Navarro conquests, the free disposition of Basque property, to mention some, and without forgetting the specialties of Valencia's use and the universal community of goods in the territory of Baylío, in Extremadura, combined with the important work carried out by the different territorial parliaments in defense and maintenance of our identity and legal tradition, which is the basic law, that these legal institutions, our foral right accompanies us, if that is our wish, whatever our place of residence or which can be assumed voluntarily and by conviction by those living in these territories, dispelling from the regulation in force for one hundred twenty-seven years - that is nothing - the automatic acquisition by continued residence of ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, times have changed. We have moved from stable mobility to very variable social and labour mobility throughout our lives. In addition to the important argument of preserving the right to decide, which amends the Personal Law, which would in itself be sufficient to accept this initiative, there is also the principle of legal certainty that inspires our system. Since the civil neighbourhood determines important areas of the personal status of private traffic, which may affect bona fide third parties, it is necessary to provide it with sufficient legal guarantees, something that is improved in this legislative proposal, since the civil neighbourhood will only be acquired by birth - and the proof of place of birth is clear and unambiguous, it is sufficient to present the national identity document - or by continued residence for two years, provided that the person concerned demonstrates that it is his will, as recorded in the Civil Registry, that it is a public register, disappearing the difficulties of the proof of continued residence or not for ten years, which has been the subject of different judgements of the Supreme Court in terms of means and evidence of proof. The defence of the right to express our will in view of the possible variation in our civil neighbourhood and legal certainty also determines the rest of the provisions provided for in this legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish as I have started, asking for your support for a proposal that comes from a land that has the right as a sign of identity and where agreements and agreement have been key and teaching our history and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u14	Thank you very much. Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor at the time of the fixing of positions, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u15	Thank you, Madam President. We welcome the representatives of the Aragonese Parliament in today's debate and defence of this initiative that brings us to this House. The party I represent, the Democratic Party of Catalonia, has never opposed the handling of issues from other parliaments, because there is no one better than them to defend what suits their interests. We therefore fully respect all the initiatives that come from the autonomous parliaments. In addition, an admission to procedure is that, an admission to procedure, an initiative that enters this House to submit to the consideration of a parliamentary procedure in which different amendments and improvements to the text are to be presented, each taking into account what it believes it should defend. I say this because in this case it is difficult for us to deal with this issue. From solidarity and maximum respect for Aragonese foreign law, as it cannot be otherwise, the realities of the Aragonese people and the Catalan people are truly different. In this case, we are a host country and so far, as a host country we are - we are proud to make a flag of it - there has been and has not been any problem in applying the Civil Code in the terms in which it has been done, that is, with regard to the issue of the civil neighbourhood. There has been no problem on the part of legal operators or any demand on the part of the various actors involved in each issue that raises issues that affect the very personal rights of citizens and, therefore, we have never had the need to raise this issue here, because it is really not controversial. On the contrary, there is a general consensus that the existence of the Civil Code provides legal certainty. The fact that a ten - year - old or more is rooted in a land seems to manifest a desire for a certain permanence, at least for a time, so it seems logical that the law in force in that land to which it moves operates. But I am saying that it is not an issue that we want to oppose, but that we simply see the issue from a different perspective. I would like to inform you that if the procedure concludes in the terms in which it has been tabled, our vote on the day this happens will be against the amendment, but we are open to defending it, working it and respecting everything that the Aragonese Parliament is pursuing without having to be affected by other types of outside rights in other areas where there has been no problem in the implementation of the Civil Code. Therefore, we will present the amendments that we consider best to find the maximum satisfaction on the part of all the interveners, because in the end the policy is this, to present the problems from different points of view, to seek solutions, to bring them and to ensure that the common good is the one that prevails from respect for those specificities of each land, which of course the only thing they do is to enrich that territory that can have so much linguistic, legal, and so on. Our vote will be abstaining on this issue and we will wait to see how it evolves in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u16	Thank you very much. I now have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Spanish legal system in the field of civil law is located in the group of complex or pluralistic systems, in which different civil laws coexist, that is, the so-called common civil law and so-called foral or special civil rights in certain autonomous communities, coexistence of different civil laws that entails the presence of internal conflicts of an interterritorial nature between these systems. In order to resolve these conflicts, it is necessary to identify three issues: which of them will apply to certain legal relations, the rules defining the temporal validity of different civil laws and, finally, the personal sphere, i.e. persons who are subject to ordinary law and those who are subject to each of the foreign or special civil rights. In accordance with article 149.1.8.a of the Constitution, the State is competent to establish the rules of coexistence of these civil systems and to establish a single State system of interregional law, in order to ensure an equal scope of application of all civil systems and a position of parity or equality between them and, ultimately, the points of connection according to which those rules are to be articulated. To this end, the Civil Code has established the rules for resolving so-called interregional conflicts of civil law. These include the civil neighbourhood of natural persons as the key norm and the basic element for determining the applicable civil order. As nationality in private international law is so in determining personal law, the civil neighbourhood of natural persons determines personal law in private interregional law. The civil neighbourhood ultimately determines the membership of the circle or community of persons governed by the same civil order. Thus, the civil neighbourhood is the point of connection that determines the personal status of the citizens, their civil status with respect to the different civil systems in force in Spain and, in defining the applicable law, influences the ability of the people to act, originates certain rights and duties of family and other nature and governs the succession mortis causa. In order to determine the civilian neighbourhood of natural persons, both for their acquisition and for their loss and change, the Civil Code establishes a series of rules that are imperative. Some of them are the subject of this proposed law for the purpose of its amendment; in particular, those governing the acquisition of the civil neighbourhood after birth, either by option or by residence, and without the intended reform affecting the original modes of acquisition or the subsequent acquisition resulting from marital relations. The civilian neighbourhood acquired by option, in its current regulation, has two limitations that are intended to be addressed. The first is the time to exercise the option for the child once he or she has reached the age of fourteen and up to one year since his or her emancipation, which is considered to be short, since in the event of emancipation at the age of sixteen, he or she would only have three years to complete the option. It is therefore considered that the time limit should be extended from the current one to four years, which together with the current year, would give a new time limit of five years. The second limitation that we find in the current Civil Code concerns the subject matter of the option. In the current wording, one may choose either the civil neighbourhood of the place of birth or the last of any of its parents, which is to be replaced by the civil neighbourhood that any of its parents would have had, not the last of any of its parents. We understand that this is more conducive to the recovery of foreign civil law than any of their parents could have had at any time. Another change is also proposed, which is to remove the ten-year acquisition of the neighbourhood by continuing residence, by considering that ipso iure acquisition, where no protest has been made against it, affects good faith and legal certainty. Thus, the precept is left with the sole assumption of the acquisition by residence of two years, provided that the interested party declares that this is his will, that is, only the autonomy of the will must be taken into account. Finally, and as a closure of the closure, a transitional provision is proposed for the recovery of the neighbourhood for those persons who have lost it for continued residence of more than ten years without declaration to the contrary and, obviously, for their ignorance. In short - and I conclude, Madam President - the Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposal for a law amending the Civil Code because it considers that the proposal contributes better to the preservation of civil rights outside. [[EAJ-PNV]] Thank you very much, Madam President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u18	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Courts of Aragon, the Catalans and the Catalans know very well that talking about roots and identity is talking about civil law, private law; this is what we were left behind after the War of Succession and the only thing that was left out of the New Plant Decree. [[Rumors]] In fact, recently... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u20	One second, Mrs. Capella. Please remain silent, you cannot hear the speaker. Go ahead, Mrs. Capella.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u21	Thank you, Madam President. He said that, in fact, the Government of Catalonia has recently passed the bill of book VI of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Once the Parliament of Catalonia has finally approved this project, it will have completed the compilation of the civil law of Catalonia and we will already have a full and proper Civil Code. This will happen whether or not the absent Government of the Spanish State likes it today, whether it likes it or not the Constitutional Court likes it. I say this because the Constitutional Court has already suspended part of Book V of the Civil Code of Catalonia, which was also recently approved by the Catalan Parliament. Our concern is therefore no longer the civil neighbourhood, it is ultimately that the Constitutional Court ceases to act as a second parliamentary chamber, ceases to interfere and allows us to develop Catalonia's own civil law. The Republican Left does not understand that the current system of civilian neighbourhood allocation should be modified at this time. It certainly presents some problems, but we are not convinced that this new regulation proposed to us by the Courts of Aragon is adequate and will improve the system we currently have, among other things - seeing the proposal before us - because it leads to the indefinite dissociation between the civil and administrative neighbourhoods and because, according to the opinion of the Republican Left, it will generate legal uncertainty. In fact, seen from Catalonia, we believe - no one is escaped - that we must think about the regulation of the acquisition and loss of Spanish nationality. I do not tell you any secrets if I tell you that in Catalonia we are living a process of independence, whether you like it or not. In September of next year, citizens will vote, and this will happen whether or not the Government of the Spanish State wishes to do so. As we often tell you, referendum or referendum. Given this situation, the connection between Catalan civil law and Spanish civil law will no longer be an interregional problem, but a problem of international law. Therefore, from Esquerra Republicana we believe that we should already speak of nationality, of the fact that the citizens of Catalonia may have the right to a dual nationality as soon as the Catalan Republic is proclaimed and, why not, of the possibility that citizens of the Catalan countries may opt for Catalan nationality and retain Spanish nationality if they so wish. We respect the proposal of the Courts of Aragon, although, as I said, we do not share it. From Esquerra Republicana we consider that the current regulation regarding the civil neighborhood is not a problem, as it could not be otherwise. That is why, and here I am going to spell out my assertions, we will not prevent the proposal put to us by the Courts of Aragon from being dealt with and therefore debated. In fact, as we say many times, we are leaving, and their probable approval will no longer compete with us or reach us. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u22	Thank you very much. I now have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to greet and express my thanks to the fellow Members of the Courts of Aragon who are accompanying us today and who have defended this proposal for a law, to the President of the Courts of Aragon and to the rest of the authorities of Aragon. The proposal discussed here is an initiative of the Courts of Aragon. I will not highlight the importance of Aragonese foreign law, which of course has it, nor will I go back to the Crown of Aragon to explain the history and tradition of Aragonese foreign law. By the way, it seems that some forget that they belonged to that Crown, or change its name so as to try to deny history, and it seems that others, precisely today, wake up and become their greatest defenders and even claim a supposed right of self-determination for Aragon. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal does not deal with the Aragonese foreign law or its defence, although some would like to sell it to the Aragonese to try to draw political revenue now that they are in low hours. Honestly and with all due respect, do you believe that what matters most to the Aragonese today is the civilian neighbourhood? I've been through two campaigns, I've had debates, I've had interviews, but none of them asked me about the civilian neighborhood, I assure you. The quota that the Courts of Aragon have to present this initiative could have been devoted to something else. The Aragonese are concerned about depopulation, that our peoples die every day; they are concerned about infrastructure, the fight against corruption and clientelism, of which, unfortunately, in Aragon we know a lot, and they are concerned about education and health. But it doesn't seem like it's worth talking about. What is discussed here is only the amendment of article 14 of the Civil Code, an amendment that affects all Spaniards, whether Aragonese, Catalan, Basque or Madrid; an article that, nothing more and nothing less, fits within the preliminary title of the Civil Code, that is, within what is the basis of our civil law and therefore has a great tradition and must be modified with the highest possible levels of consensus. In the regulation of this institution we must combine two principles, the first being the ability of each citizen to freely choose which neighbourhood he wants to have, whether aragonese, Valencian or Andalusian, and, therefore, what right his life rules. Citizens agree to give citizens greater capacity to decide on matters affecting their person, but this must be combined with adequate legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, outside law regulates people's most intimate issues, but these are aspects that also matter to third parties, for example, who is responsible for the custody of children in the event of a couple crisis, how to make a will or the legitimate one. We will have to recognize all those here who are that this from the civil neighborhood, and therefore from the civil law that applies to you, is not something that all people know and, therefore, it does not seem very reasonable that to an Aragonese who was born there but that at two years came to Madrid it is applied to him in his death, automatically, without more, the Aragonese law, when the most normal thing is that he, in life, did not know that it was going to apply to him or knew the consequences that it had. The proposal presents gaps and can generate problems and insecurity, but we respect that it was unanimously adopted in the Courts of Aragon, although Citizens did not at that time have representation in them and therefore could not pronounce on it. As I say, we respect that unanimity and, therefore, we are not going to oppose its processing. The proposal, as it is written, can generate problems and conflicts, and in order to try to resolve them and, at the same time, to respect the decision-making capacity of citizens on matters affecting their person, we advocate more for a system of recovery from the civil neighbourhood for those who have lost their neighbourhood without knowing it or out of ignorance and who want to recover it; something that, by the way - some interveners have already said here - was defended in the parliamentary procedure of the Courts of Aragon. Ladies and gentlemen, outside law is not defended by trying to enforce it at all costs; outside law is defended by the legislator, by adopting good rules and, therefore, by making citizens prefer to have that right applied to them because they feel that it is best to regulate their lives and not because it is imposed on them. In this sense, we must also highlight the regulation that has been made in Aragon of shared custody, a matter in which it has been a pioneer and, moreover, an example for Spain, for the State and for the rest of the autonomous communities; a regulation whose approval throughout Spain we will defend and promote from Citizens. That's how outside law is defended. That is why we applaud them. We believe that there are aspects of the Civil Code that need to be revised and improved. We believe that the amendment of the Civil Code should not be limited only to the civil neighbourhood; we should also amend it, for example, to grant Spanish nationality to children and grandchildren of Spaniards abroad who so desire or, as I have said, to establish the preference for shared custody of children in the event of separation or divorce of parents. That is why we will abstain in the vote and present in the parliamentary procedure the amendments that we believe are necessary, and we will also try to introduce into the Civil Code the remaining amendments that we consider important. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u24	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, first of all, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u25	Good afternoon, everyone. Greetings to the representatives of the good people of Aragon. [[Continue greeting in Catalan and Aragonese]] Let's start at the end. We are going to start by saying that we are not going to oppose it; on the contrary, we are going to vote in favour of taking account of the proposal for a law, especially since it is supported by the unanimity of the Aragonese Parliament. In favour of democratic participation and co-responsibility of all and all institutions in the legislative work, we will vote in favour. However, we also tell you that we are going to be constructively critical, since the alternative wording they propose to article 14 of the Civil Code... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u26	Mr. Moya, just a moment. Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go ahead, Mr. Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u27	As I was telling you, we're going to be constructively critical. We must study and raise the alleged injustice that they detect, analyse and diagnose in article 14 of the Civil Code and, to that end, I will relate a number of doubts that arise and that, if necessary, we will work - if it is approved - in the Committee on Justice. The ignorance of the right does not excuse its fulfillment. This is an undisputed general principle that gives us legal certainty. The abandonment of the exercise of rights does not preclude and is not a cause for considering a law unjust. On the contrary, it is the responsibility of the administrations, in this case the autonomous governments, to inform their citizens of the consequences of leaving their territory, where appropriate, the loss of the civilian neighbourhood. Secondly, there is the question of legal certainty as to the appearance of the law in relation to the legal reality, which has a broad tradition in Spanish law. The first reaction of the Civil Code in 1889 already marked the criterion of loss of civilian neighbourhood through continued residence for ten years in a territory. It is true that it was only in the case of a common neighbourhood, but we must take into account the long tradition and guarantee of bona fide third parties, which could also hurt. In our view, the rule should be the submission of the civilian neighbourhood to the territory in which it resides, and the reform they propose would come to the contrary, it would be the exception. Thirdly, there is democratic participation. Subjection to the civil law of the territory of residence has its consequence in the exercise of political status, and it is logical that the vote active in the autonomic sphere should be conditional on the election of the deputies of the autonomic parliament whose legislative task will influence the evolution of that civil law applicable to the person. The other way around is that of those who have a civilian neighbourhood but resides in another different territory and cannot vote for Members of Parliament who can influence that legislation, which does not seem entirely right to us either. We are also faced with a question of identity. Reading the rationale for the proposal, we are concerned that they link something as subjective, as intimate and as personal as the territorial identity to the civil neighbourhood. We believe that there is no order that can attribute to the intimate sphere of a person the feeling of belonging to a territory or community. Moreover, this does not have to be considered as an exclusionary thing, but can even be considered as a cumulative thing. What is the problem that a person who was born in Aragon and resides in Catalonia can have in his intimate forum the dual consideration, the dual Catalan and Aragonese identity? In this sense, article 2 of the Law on Relations with Aragonese Communities abroad attributes aragonesity to all persons who feel connected to Aragon - to their culture, their history, traditions, people, etc. - and not to the civil neighbourhood. With regard to transmission to children, should this provision of article 14 be repealed, the transmission would involve perpetuating citizens in a civilian neighbourhood other than that of the territory of residence. In addition, this would be perpetuated through ius sanguinis to their children, so this legal uncertainty that we have detailed would be perpetuated further. Finally, we could understand - it seemed to me to interpret this way through the intervention of the representatives of the Parliament of Aragon - that they are practically shielding the civilian neighbourhood, in the same way that Article 11 shields the status of a Spanish national. If I have not misunderstood - the first speaker has said so - they would practically be establishing Aragonese nationality, that is, they would be recognizing a plurinational State. If you want to enter this garden, you know that in our group we are delighted to talk about a plurinational state, a nation of nations, but you will understand that the best door to enter is not a reform of the Civil Code. I'm done, Madam President. We are going to vote in favour of this consideration, but we are going to deal with it in a constructive, participatory and responsible reflection within the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much. [[Continue to thank you in Catalan and Aragonese]] Let's plant it strong! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u28	Thank you very much. For the same Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Luis Bail has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President of the Courts of Aragon, delegation of the Courts of Aragon, I am proud - I imagine like the rest of the Aragonese and Aragonese in this House - that it is an initiative emanating from our land that allows us to go up to this rostrum to accompany it. I also share my time at this point with our spokesman for Justice, Jaume Moya, with whom we share history - that of the former Crown of Aragon, confederal for its time - and today poetic justice, because through our confluences, In Comú Puem and Alto Aragon in Common, we defend common principles in a parliamentary group also confederal. The vote in favour of the procedure and also an interesting debate have already been taken by Mr Jaume Moya. Our group believes that the substantive issue to be dealt with with by this bill is no less; the initiative arises from the spirit of our status of autonomy over Aragonese foreign law, which is a reflection of the Aragonese values of the pact, loyalty and freedom, as it is said, universalizable values of dignity and empowerment that the Aragon Courts believe must protect, on the one hand, in a context of a population-giving community in an increasingly unpopulated territory in its rural environment, a rural environment exploited demographically, ecologically and culturally, and, on the other hand, hungry for fair recognition, and on the other hand, in a socio-economic context in which inequality is increasing and in which it is therefore necessary to defend more than ever the rights of all, regardless of where they live. I think that the Courts of Aragon are intuiting it quite correctly. On the one hand, on the other hand, the proposed amendment does not equate a civil neighbourhood with a nationality, since it is still possible to lose it with an express expression of will in this regard; in fact, this amendment would favour greater legal certainty, since with the current wording of article 14.5 of the Civil Code the civil neighbourhood is lost most of the time without the knowledge of the person concerned. On the other hand, this is an effort by the Aragonese Courts to provide protection against the unprotectiveness that can be suffered by those who are only aware of their change of civilian neighbourhood in the most complicated procedures of their lives. A clear example of this would be the impossibility of the enjoyment of the right of visual usufruct granted by the Aragonese foral right to a widow or widow - although reality obliges us to refer particularly to them - and which, by default of article 14.5, loses because of ignorance of its neighbourhood. It is therefore a measure of access to the law that benefits from positive discrimination against women. The same could be said about the increase in the time frame for deciding such a civilian neighbourhood for children who are emancipated, as it is aimed at making it possible to decide more conscientiously. It is therefore fair to acknowledge the contribution that this amendment makes in order to improve the living conditions of at least one part of the population concerned. To conclude, I do not want to leave the rostrum without remembering a little of our history, as other speakers have done before, alluding to the oath with which we in Aragon invested the kings: 'We, who are and are worth as much as you, but together more than you, we make you... King..., so long as you guard our Fueros y Libertades; and if not, no'. That 'and if not, no' shows that in Aragon and when we were kingdom we liked absolutism, and it is related to what we said from the seat when the legislature began: 'Never again a country without its peoples and without its peoples'. And we'll say to Mr. Rajoy, 'and if not, no'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Galeano Gracia has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank my Socialist Group for the opportunity to speak from this rostrum on a matter which is as important to an Aragonese as I am. I would also like to express my thanks and to extend a humble welcome to this House to the authorities of the Courts of Aragon who are accompanying us: the President, the Vice-Presidents and other authorities; of course, also to the three representatives of the Aragonese Parliament, who are neighbours in this case of Aljaferia, and who have so brilliantly exposed this subject that we are dealing with here, even if it is a little untimely for civil law matters. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a proposal for a law which is subject to approval under Article 87 of the Spanish Constitution and which, if taken into account, would entail a reform of the Civil Code and would, logically, apply to the rest of our country's autonomous communities, universalizing this Aragonese initiative for all Spaniards, thus fulfilling one of the pillars on which the best Aragonese policy is based, that is, that the inclusion and acquisition of a right by the Aragonese expands on equal terms to the rest of our country's citizens. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the Aragonese were always people of covenant and of laws as a result of traditions maintained for a long time. It is one of our most defining features that we carry with pride as a flag; a flag that we want to take over the whole of our State, of our country, and that permeates every corner of this Spain so plural and so diverse. We shall try, ladies and gentlemen, to aragonise Spain. Since Aragon exists as a politically organized territory, this has been for centuries now, our community has been developing its own legal institutions. The Aragonese law, therefore, is as old as Aragon itself. I bring here a sentence, I think already quoted by some parliamentarian before, of a famous Aragonese, Montisonse he, Joaquín Costa: Aragon is defined by his right. In other words, what identifies us and defines us as the Aragonese is our own right, a sign of own and exclusive identity that has managed to survive for centuries all kinds of political events. Ladies and gentlemen, in its article 149.1.8.a, the Spanish Constitution attributes to the Autonomous Communities the conservation, modification and development of civil rights outside or outside the territory where they exist, as is the case with Aragonese foreign law. From the Socialist Group we respect the legitimacy of the representatives of the Courts of Aragon according to their status of autonomy in order to defend their foral right and to preserve their application to the greatest number of people. We appreciate, as it cannot otherwise be, the unanimity shown by this proposal, submitted by the Aragonese Parliament and received in Congress for further processing. In addition, the Socialists are aware that we share this character of personal nature, which is this foral right, its importance as an Aragonese identity sign and the significance of the civil neighbourhood as a determining category of its application. In that regard, ladies and gentlemen, it should be recalled that the Civil Code provides in its articles 9 and 16 that personal law shall govern capacity and marital status, family rights and duties and succession on the basis of death, and that personal law shall be determined by the civilian neighbourhood. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is the civil neighbourhood that determines the subjection to common civil law or to special or foral law and, precisely for this reason, the Aragonese can use their Aragonese foreign law and the Basques, Galicians or Valencians their respective compilations of civil law, all of which do not have a relationship of permanence in that territory. I do not want to repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the statement that the autonomous parliamentarians have already made, as I have said, but I do want to touch on an issue that seems to us to be key, such as the automatic or involuntary form of the loss and subsequent acquisition of the civilian neighbourhood, in this case of the Aragonese, in accordance with the current wording of the Civil Code. It seems to us, at least, to be the subject of debate and improvement, in view of the consequences of that act and in the context of a rather widespread view of the doctrine as to its need for reform. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is why different treatment is being given to the loss of nationality with regard to the civilian neighbourhood, for example. Why, except in certain cases, Spanish nationality must be expressly renounced in order to acquire another nationality and the loss of civilian neighbourhood is allowed without a direct declaration of it. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, and by analysing the current geographical mobility which is often forced by situations of inequality of opportunity between all our Spanish territories, we consider that although it is desirable to root in the territory in which the socio-occupational relations of these people usually develop, much more importantly it seems that this root occurs in a voluntary and natural way and not in a practically, or almost, imperative way. In short: we ask to take into consideration and we will approve that the civilian neighbourhood, which is eminently personal, should not be lost unintentionally, almost out of ignorance, and that it should only be acquired with some form of declaration of will, thus taking into account the principle of voluntariness in the acquisition of a neighbourhood other than that of origin. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Although it may not seem so at times, we are faced with a very important issue for the citizens of this country. The civil neighbourhood determines the subjection of persons to one right or another; depending on their civil neighbourhood, rules or laws will apply to them in such transcendental aspects as the law regulating our marriage, our succession and inheritance, paternal relations, etc. We believe that this bill has been able to correctly collect one of the demands of society in this regard, as it is to give greater relevance to the individual's freedom of choice. We therefore support a future reform of the current regime, taking into account the project referred to here and the appropriate improvements that could be made in its parliamentary process, always taking into account the necessary criteria of equality for all territories and assuming the competence of the State in this matter. Thank you, Madam President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u32	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words this afternoon will also be to welcome the President of the Courts of Aragon, her Vice-Presidents, the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group there in the Courts and, of course, the representatives of the various parliamentary groups represented in those Courts who took the floor this afternoon. I say that my words will be welcome, ladies and gentlemen, but also congratulations. I will explain myself: it is perfectly legitimate for an autonomous community, in this case that of Aragon, to want to defend and improve one of its signs of identity such as its own civil law, foral law and, within that foral right, an institution such as the Aragonese civil neighbourhood. For this improvement, in this case, the Courts of Aragon have brought us an initiative that seeks to reform the Civil Code. And the Spanish legal system has a procedure to make this claim viable, it has been said in this rostrum: it is the way of article 87.2 of the Constitution, which regulates the legislative initiative of the autonomous communities and opens the possibility that they can refer to the Bureau of Congress proposals for law, and that is what the Courts of Aragon have done. And they have done so in an exemplary way, because it has been an example of how the autonomous communities, all the autonomous communities, can, if they want, present initiatives to amend laws at the state level. It is an example of participation or, if they prefer, of incorporation of territorial interests into the common decision; an example in which territorial political interests and their defence affect the formation of the State decision. An example, ladies and gentlemen, of how the party can influence and modify the whole. And all that, ladies and gentlemen, is done with the utmost respect for the Constitution and the law, following the legally and constitutionally established procedures, and that is why they have the congratulations of the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, Aragon is an autonomous community with history, with a lot of history has been said here; much more history than other autonomous communities who presume to have it, and it has strong signs of identity that the Aragonese feel and defend, among them - you said at the beginning - their foral right and the institution of the Aragonese civil neighbourhood. But, look, a plurality of civil rights coexist throughout the Spanish territory, and that is why it is necessary to specify which Spaniards are subject to each of them, and that is precisely the role that the civil neighborhood fulfils as a condition or quality of the Spaniards that determines the applicability as regards the personal law of one of the civil systems coexisting in our country. Civil neighborhood - it has been said here - cannot be confused with administrative neighborhood, which is the result of registration in the municipal standard of the municipality in which it usually resides, and which entails a number of rights and obligations that the law provides but which have nothing to do with the applicability of territorial civil law. Nor should it be confused or attempted as a political condition of the Spaniards who are part of an autonomous community, referred to in the statutes of autonomy and which has to do with the exercise of political rights. The civil neighbourhood designates the personal law of the Spaniards that will govern capacity, marital status, obligations or family rights and duties and succession due to death, so it is important that there is legal certainty around the civil neighborhood. The initiative that we are discussing today, and which has also been presented in a comprehensive and brilliant manner by the representatives of the Courts of Aragon, aims to amend the Civil Code which regulates the rules on the acquisition, conservation and recovery of the civil neighbourhood. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in trying to amend the Civil Code, we are amending a rule that will affect all Spanish citizens, which will affect all autonomous communities and all citizens. With regard to the claim contained in the proposal, I say that the People's Parliamentary Group is going to support this initiative, but we would like to leave some thoughts on the table so that then in parliamentary procedure, if the case comes up, we can discuss them, we can reflect on them and we can discuss them in a much more calm way. It is true - and it has been said here too - that the Civil Code regulates the automatic loss of the neighbourhood and the automatic acquisition of another neighbourhood by continued residence in a territory other than the original neighborhood for a period of ten years if there is no manifestation to the contrary, and from some sectors of the doctrine it is called that there should be no change in that civil neighborhood without the will and sometimes even the knowledge of the stakeholders themselves, who do not know, as has been said here too, precisely what neighborhood applies to them. Therefore, in order to give civil security, to give legal certainty, it will be necessary to know exactly the civil neighbourhood, and perhaps to have greater reliability than that contained in the Civil Registry because the parents made the registration or because someone expressed their willingness to acquire it or that of the place of its birth. So in that sense, it may be possible to argue that this security is more assured. On the other hand, when you speak of the second assumption that attempts are being made to change the child's choice, I would like to comment on some doubts that have arisen from reading the proposal. As the Civil Code is now drafted, the child may choose, from the age of fourteen to one year after his or her emancipation, either from the civil neighbourhood of his or her birth or from the last one of his or her parents. What is intended is that the child can choose between that of his birth - so far all the same, but then the possibility of opting - and whoever the parents had had, and also the time to opt, not one year from emancipation, but five years, is extended. As far as the time limit is concerned, it is obvious that a time limit must be set, because it cannot be left without the possibility of opting; we would be talking about a right to a letter and a time limit must be set. As for the term calculation, it is made dependent on emancipation. Given that more than 99% of the cases of emancipation occur with the age of majority, we would be talking from the age of fourteen to the age of majority, four, plus five, in total nine years in order to be able to choose. In the event that emancipation is prior to the age of sixteen, the time limit is being lowered, but no rights are being violated either. We believe that perhaps any extension of the deadline can lead to greater insecurity, especially for the interlocutors who interact with whom they have the right to choose. Finally, when it is said that the child's choice passes through the place of birth or the last of his parents, if we take into account that the justification for the explanatory statement is presented as if the child could preserve the civilian neighbourhood of his great-grandparents, grandparents and parents, it might have been more reasonable - I leave it on the table - to leave the choice between the civilian neighbourhood of his birth, the birth of his parents or the last of his parents and not to leave open the possibility to all those transit neighborhoods that he had been able to acquire during that period. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, these are observations that have been raised to us given the magnitude of the reform that is being proposed, which, as I said in the beginning, is of the Civil Code, a state-level norm and which will affect all the autonomous communities and all the citizens. We are prepared to support the reform of the Civil Code and to discuss it, but in the terms of the proposal itself, without opening the door to other possible amendments to that rule, to the Civil Code, which have nothing to do with this proposal. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I finish as I began, thanking and welcoming the representatives of the Autonomous Community of Aragon, those who are accompanying us in the Chamber and those who are listening to us from the rostrum. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u34	Thank you very much. Many thanks to the entire delegation of the Courts of Aragon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u35	We turn to the second item on the agenda, concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the suspension of the timetable for the implementation of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, for the improvement of educational quality. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Cruz Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, friends and associations of the educational community, the Socialist Party has been accrediting for years its unequivocal will to reach a consensus on education that will give our educational system sustainability and stability. He has always tried that he has had the opportunity, the most recent being the stage in which Angel Gabilondo occupied the Ministry of Education. It was then you, lords of the People's Party, who put the bow to an agreement that was already practically closed, to the point that even some Education Councillor of your party dared to say that, although it had not been signed, the agreement was already closed. When soon after you came to power, you did exactly the opposite to us. With the roll of its absolute majority, although with the opposition's frontal rejection, they processed and passed in the Congress of Deputies, a law, the Lomce, which if anything evidenced, was the inability of this government - absent - to seek a consensus in the field of education and again to record its contempt for the dialogue with all actors involved in the field of education. Together with this, the same Government hastily imposed a timetable for implementation, which has clearly proved to be inexhaustible for the autonomous communities and for the centres themselves, pointing out once again that the reform had been carried out without a shared diagnosis, without prior debate and behind the back of the educational community. In fact, still on August 13, 2015, the Minister of Education, at the meeting of the Sectoral Conference of Education, rejected the proposal submitted by twelve autonomous communities asking for a moratorium to avoid the consequences of an absolutely hasty implementation of the law. The Government, with such an attitude, continued to turn its back on consensus by not altering the timetable or making it more flexible, as well as by not addressing the question of the most controversial measures, as conceived in the Lomce. As a result, there is nothing strange about the enormous number of disagreements that this law has produced not only among the entire educational community, but also between the social partners and the political forces. The unilateral attitude of the Government of the People's Party in virtually all areas has led to unprecedented demonstrations, declarations, closures, protests and the convening of general education strikes, in which trade unions, teachers, parents, mothers and students have participated, from childhood education to university. But do not get confused, you have not reaped so many disagreements, you have not obtained so much rejection in society only for formal or procedural reasons, especially because of your absolute lack of willingness to dialogue, but above all because of the concrete contents of your policies, of which, in a sense, Lomce constitutes the epitome or the most prominent expression, because in this law, a deeply ideological, regressive, elitist, exclusive, segregating, re-centralizing and confessional law is clearly manifested the conception that the People's Party has of education, and beyond society itself. Indeed, during these years the Government of the People's Party has taken decisions and implemented policies that, far from ensuring quality public education, with equal opportunities for all, has led to the greatest decline in education in our democratic history, making it clear that its ultimate objective has been and is to dismantle public education, leaving it to pre-democratic levels. Ladies and gentlemen, the counter-reform to which the Government of the People's Party has submitted to our education system has entailed a series of cuts in material and human resources that have caused an irreparable decline in educational quality, undermining equity and equal opportunities. The Royal Decree 14/2012, on urgent measures to rationalise public expenditure in the field of education, was the first blow with which the Government undertook its cuts in education, and has subsequently aggravated the situation by imposing even more cuts at the structural level, by committing itself with the European Union in successive stability programmes to have our country receive its investment, up to 3.76 % of the GDP planned for 2019. All of them are figures that bring us back to the educational reality of the late 1970s. This policy of cuts and increasing inequality is followed by general State budgets which have been reducing investment in education by more than 25% over the last socialist budget. To this should be added the cuts induced by the Government, and implemented by the Autonomous Communities, which have resulted in the serious deterioration of educational services by eliminating or minimizing aid for textbooks, school materials, food aid or transport, the closure and degradation of rural school networks, the increase in the teacher-student ratio, Seneca scholarships, collaborative scholarships, Erasmus scholarships or FPUs, among many other devastating consequences, which, as always, have particularly affected families with fewer resources. [[Applauds]] What can we say about the drastic reduction of state aid to the Erasmus programme, the increase in the price of university tuition fees and the introduction of non-economic criteria for scholarships, in addition to other measures that hinder access, maintenance and the abolition of existing ones, all of which have made the last few years the most regressive in educational matters in our history? Do not try, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, to give the bear's hug to the socialists. You and we are not the same, and even less so when it comes to education. A couple of sample buttons will be enough to make clear the huge distance that separates us. While the Socialist government's policy was to bet on equal opportunities, constantly increasing the number of scholarships and study grants, as well as defending the scholarship as a right, the PP government has kept reducing the budget year after year, turning the scholarship into a prize. Second sample button. While the LOE established the guarantee of the existence of - open quotes -'sufficient public places in compulsory education' - closed quotes -, the Lomce replaces this guarantee with that of - open quotes -'sufficient places' - closed quotes - even if they are not public, thus enabling the public school to become residual compared to the agreed one. [[Applauds]] I'll tell him otherwise. Lomce is not an anomaly or an unfortunate or extravagant initiative of a minister of infamous memory. It has been all the policies of the People's Party that have led our educational system to a situation of asphyxiation and helplessness, from which we all have an obligation to get it out. That is why the Socialist Group has tabled this bill, which we trust the whole House will support and therefore be taken into consideration and can be dealt with normally. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been defending from before even the entry of Lomce into Congress in May 2013 a whole series of demands that we are convinced that they should now serve to correct aspects that we believe are devaluing the sense of the right to education and that undermine equal opportunities. Some of these claims relate directly today to the draft law that we present: frontal opposition to the evaluation of the sixth grade of primary school and to the ESO and second grade of secondary school, and the restoration of the current proof of access to university to guarantee the conditions of equality and legal certainty, but we do not forget others, such as the immediate elimination of the possibility of segregation of children in the educational system supported by public funds, the restoration of the non-evaluable nature of the subject of religion so that its qualification cannot have any academic impact, the possibility of the ESO graduation of those who follow the basic vocational training programmes, the elimination of the model of appointment of directors and directors Lomce and the restoration of the competences of the school councils and, finally, the recovery of the curriculum diversification in the fourth grade of the ESO with the possibility of graduation. The Socialists will also work to ensure that there are no further cuts in public education, as well as to recover the material and human resources that were taken away from them by the People's Party. To this end, we demand that the Government progressively recover public expenditure on education, committing a floor of expenditure of around 5% or 5.5% of GDP and a long-term target of over 6%; restoring the true meaning of scholarships as a subjective right, without making it difficult for students to access and maintain them, guaranteeing an increase in scholarship and study aid funds, eliminating unfair academic criteria and promoting the progressive increase in amounts; and recovering ratios, hours and working conditions for all teachers prior to Royal Decree-Law 14/2012. In addition, we will require the Government to convene immediately the Sectoral Conference on Education to agree on the application of these lies and to define all those for which the increase in funds will be directed. Here we will include territorial cooperation programmes - especially those aimed at combating school failure and drop-out, such as programmes of reinforcement, guidance and school support - the generalisation of the provision of education from zero to three years, and support and support for families. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that the Socialist Group is committed to the task of starting a new stage and, to that end, will work seriously and conscientiously to achieve a social and political pact for education through constant dialogue with the Government and with all the political forces represented in this House. Before this rostrum, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group calls for the same cooperation and commitment from all the groups in the House. Together we can realize a historic agreement to give the stability our educational system needs. [[Applauds]] Minister, the President of the Government of which you are a member has spent most of the entire legislature during which he ruled with an absolute majority by taking refuge in the lesser reproach or criticism that was directed at him in the mockery of the inheritance received. And -what are things!-, in fact, as soon as you think, for an inheritance received heavy, the one left to you by Mr. Wert; so burdensome that perhaps it would be better for us to call it the colloquial term of brown, an authentic and genuine brown. But don't worry, Mr. Mendez de Vigo. We offer you our support to work together and we are willing to help you get out of such a cumbersome situation. Although not in any way, of course, but the only one that makes sense to us. That is why we are calling for the halting of the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce and the consequent suspension of the entry into force of the rules which develop its implementation and which do not have effective effect. We call for such a halt - it is worth reiterating - as a preliminary and priority step to begin to rebuild a common agreement between the whole educational community, the social partners and the political forces; an agreement aimed at achieving a stable and quality education system. By definition, an educational pact must be a pact with everyone, it cannot leave anyone out, just as it cannot be a pact against anyone. But the matter is too important and serious to be able to go through with the loss and confusing the citizenry with misleading or directly misleading proposals, such as announcing a suspension of the academic effects of the invalids already provided for in the law itself. I will tell you clearly and unequivocally: an educational pact on the basis of the Lomce is not a pact, it is an oxymoron as the crown of a pine tree, or as a cathedral if it seems more appropriate to the ideology that inspired the law. Finally, Minister, do not pretend that the opposition eats the brown that Mr Wert left you in his inheritance. But, above all, do not pretend to be eaten by the students of this country, who are the least guilty of the disguised ones that generated their predecessor in office. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u37	At the time of the fixing of positions and by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today comes a proposal for a law from the Socialist Group in which we all agree. Education is an issue that exceeds political positions, that exceeds a Government and that exceeds a legislature, and above all a law such as the Lomce, which came out without social consensus and without any support whatsoever, either from the autonomous communities, from the political parties, from the faculty or from the students. It was intended to impose in a country where we still need to fight school failure, where we need - then we will talk about it - equality policies and where in a law we put up the segregation of children in schools by sex, in the middle of the 21st century. In addition, with some revalidations that were foolish, without taking into account the socio-economic and territorial environments of each of the communities or within each of them. In the case of the Canary Islands, I no longer tell you, where teachers were supposed to be external, so that if teachers had to be sent to La Gomera to take the exams, the specificities and the scope or considerations that they should have were not taken into account. But not only that, but also the whole subject of intermediation and so many and so many other things. I am glad that today we do not have an absolute majority government, neither of the PSOE nor of the People's Party, because the history of Spain has been the imposition of education laws when they have ruled one or the other. What I want to say is that proof of disability is immediately suspended and that among all political forces, among all citizens, among all collectives involved in education, we are able to make an education law for the next generations of boys and girls, of men and women in this country, so that they are educated on equality and, above all, that there is no school failure in this country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u39	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group reiterates before the plenary of the Congress an initiative with which it tries to repeal, paralyse or block the Lomce. This attempt to suspend its timetable and implement it does not take into account the educational consequences. In fact, this proposal of law, like another similar one that was presented in the last legislature, summarizes irritability, voraciousness for the control of teaching and anxiety so that in Spain the Organic Law of Education returns to the steps. This socialist practice of blocking an educational law has precedents, and not only that of the failed eleventh legislature: also the government of José María Aznar suffered the clashes against his LOCE. In other words, attempts to wreak havoc on other people's educational laws must be taken as a socialist routine and, therefore, we denounce them in this rostrum and reject them with our vote, because, moreover, if they go forward, the great victims will be the students, the center of all educational policy. Foro disagreed unequivocally with the Lomce in its tortuous process for Congress and the Senate, but today we do not accept this claim to fumigate educational policy so that the LOE, a law that weakened the structure of the school system, weakened the teacher and dragged Spain to worrying educational levels. However, we appreciate that Lomce incorporates revalidations and external tests of a national nature, because we believe that they stimulate effort and demand, objectives similar to those that are held throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the Forum advocates for forging the pacts in the field of the Sectoral Conference on Education, for correcting the weaknesses of our education system, for developing its rules and for involving the whole community. As long as this great consensus for education is not completed or, worse, not even attempted by the obstinacy of a substantial part of the opposition in the General Courts, we run the risk of deepening the ills that afflict our students, the structure, the curriculum of subjects, the organization of classrooms and centers, the teaching staff and also vocational training. Not to the paralysis of the calendar, not to sectarianism on a sacrosanct subject such as teaching, but from Forum to the great school pact of all political forces and the educational community in order to consolidate the path of improvement of quality indicators. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u41	Thank you. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u42	Get out of the way. Euskal Herria Bildu will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal for a law calling for the suspension of the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce, and we will do so for something very obvious: we are against the Lomce and we want it to be repealed now. Therefore, paralyzing the calendar is a lesser evil, but it is at least a step in a good direction. And we say this clearly because the educational community of Euskal Herria as a whole has shown not only that it does not want Lomce, but that it is willing to make a plant, despite who weighs it and whatever its threat. In these plants, Euskal Herria Bildu will be with families and educators and objectors, as she has been so far. But we are also very clear and say that we are not in favour of a national educational pact. We do not want the Lomce, but we do not want the LOE, the Logse or any other that can come from a national pact or a national educational pact, which brings nothing but re-centralisation, standardization and denial of the plural realities that are today, in our case and very much to our regret, within the Spanish State. That is the reality that it brings and that allows Tertullians in the media to say that Basque is a language to speak with cows and cribs, for example, and that only Spanish is a language of rank and level. Before the Lomce and any other law like that we will defend what the Basque social majority defined in the Charter of Social Rights of Euskal Herria, that everyone has the right to access a public education system in Basque, plural, secular, free, inclusive of diversity and gender equality, co-education, and to develop critical spirit and internationalist solidarity at all stages of education, both compulsory and non-compulsory. The education system will be its own and will develop the so-called Basque curriculum. And don't be afraid, because in that Basque curriculum there will be no room for exclusion, so as not to recognize the great works of literature. Serve as an example to recognize someone who was able to write more than seventy years ago something so certain and so effective today, unfortunately, like this: With the soul of Charol / come along the road. / Jorobados and nocturnes, / where they animate / dark rubber silences / and fears of fine sand. Federico García Lorca. Romance to the Civil Guard.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u43	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Those of us who have worked in education know how important it is that in the cloisters, in the school councils, let us work together, propose together, decide together. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u45	One second, Mr. Baldoví. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baldoví is not heard. Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just the opposite of what the former minister and his party, who did not consent, did not share, but imposed; they imposed their absolute majority and imposed it is a verb completely removed from the verb to educate. An education law cannot be made against the educational community, against all teachers, against all other political forces. Of this law it is only necessary to implement the revalidations of the 4th of ESO and 2nd of Baccalaureate; and if you were reasonable, if you were moderate and not radical and extremist with this law, you would support this initiative. Keeping the invalids is continuing to insist on maintaining an old-fashioned pedagogical model; it is continuing to bet on leaving out of the system much of the student, even though he has passed all the subjects; it is questioning the teachers, and it does not seem a good idea to delegitimize those who know the students, those who work with the students every day, those who have lived with them, those who have evaluated these students. Continuing to bet on the disabled is not to take into account the educational progress of a student, his or her effort of years of study and the special circumstances that run in each of them; it is to deny our students a degree that has been earned for years; it is, in short, a brake, a funnel where many students will remain without access to the baccalaureate or university. I'm done, Madam President. Maintaining the invalids is maintaining the last link of a law that should never have been passed and that marked a style of lawmaking that is quite contrary to the values that try to instill education, to the values that thousands of teachers teach every day in their classrooms: agree, agree, convince. Quite the contrary to what has been done with this law, which we must repeal as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u48	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. While last week the Spanish Government announced to us that it will not accept the proposal of the Democratic Party regarding Lomce, my Government, the Catalan, was in the United States invited by Google to explain, in front of fifteen countries, how technology and advances in it can help to improve an active, own educational model, with shortcomings, of course, but above all an ambitious educational model. Some criticize him, when they know perfectly well that if something fails streptly in him it is the hand of the Spanish Government and its Wert Law, made to Spanishize Catalan students. These are the same ones who criticize - fraternally, yes - that we have accepted Google's invitation; the same ones who would surely prefer to stay here crying and complaining instead of going out into the world to share the job well done - that there is a lot - and to feed on the work that other countries do well. The information provided to us by the Spanish Government justifies non-admission for budgetary reasons. That is to say, we have to eat Lomce, when Catalonia is going to cost more than EUR 130 million because certain European aid is threatened. Do you realize the drama? We're going to stop the Lomce, we're going to stop it because it's against Catalonia, because it's against the Catalan language and because it's against progress, and we're not going to put our children's future at risk. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] I'm done. Spain bets to remove from the system those students who subjectively are not good, and it does so by planting on the table of all administrations an agreement accompanied by a succulent check. Catalonia is the only Administration that has not signed this agreement, this destroyer of futures. Some are filled with words and others we demonstrate with facts our commitment to educational quality. And I can't leave without informing the uninformed that one hundred percent of Catalan students speak and write Spanish. And no, having Catalan accent doesn't mean not knowing Spanish. Let's vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u49	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I come on behalf of the Basque Group, once again, to defend our position and to speak against what is so far martyring us in the educational world, which is this legal-educational artifact called Lomce. Let's hope he disappears as soon as possible. From the beginning my group was against this law, and today the Socialist Group is asking us to take into consideration a proposal for a law so that from it we can develop through amendments and paper work the position that everyone has on what the education system should be, which we believe should be an education law. Education, in its broadest sense of the term, is an inestimable common good which as such must be preserved, a good which is constantly evolving and which must be anchored in the society to which it serves in agreement. We live in circumstances that oblige us all who have public responsibilities and all those involved in education to a shared reading of how to move forward in improving the education system. So far we agree: the better the education of all, the more in favor of it will be my group. But education is one of the central issues on the agenda of any Government and must have a long look, it must have a broader view than it has had so far. Without a doubt, it must be flexible and adaptable, but I repeat that it must know which society it serves, where it comes from, where it wants to go and what educational model it proposes for it. I say it must be anchored to the society it serves, and this for my group is very important. Those who defend the Spanish State as such - what is now understood by the Spanish State - cannot deny that it is diverse and plural. Others argue that ours is directly a State with different nations that necessarily participate in it. But it is not supported, however compulsory it is, in a uniform, unique, stony, indivisible society, but it is also plural and diverse cultural, linguistic, social and, without a doubt, politically. Therefore, with regard to education, consideration should also be given to the existence of peoples and nations with varying degrees of competence. The proposals that must be made are legitimate, but those educational systems that have worked well cannot be ignored. We do not see the need for them to come to refocus, the need for them to come to impose educational models that do not apply to the society they serve. For example, Lomce is not good for Basque society, and here I have a clear example that we have not needed lomces. This is a BBC report by Sean Coughlan, who is responsible for the education of the BBC, entitled 'How has the Basque Country become a world power in education?' As far as I know, the BBC has not produced reports on the excellence of the Spanish education system. And in it he says, among other things, that the effort made by peoples with identity so that their educational system is linked, intertwined with that identity, is then projected into higher results. Undoubtedly, the Lomce example is quite the opposite; Lomce is a clear example of how issues surrounding education should not be resolved, Lomce is a monument to irresponsibility, it is imposed, it is re-centralizing, invasive with regard to our self-government. This parliamentary group to which I represent rejected it head-on from the beginning, we even participated in that series of meetings in which we said that this could not be. But what is worse, the government did act without giving a damn what we all thought about education, because it had an absolute majority that allowed it to do what it wanted. And that has a consequence, which today only the parliamentary group of the Government supports this law. The Minister, who has been reiterated in his office, has a really complicated task to see how he convinces us all of the others so that, without changing the Lomce, we can agree with the others in the education law. And it would indeed be a irresponsibility of the parliamentary group that sustains it to ignore the majority of this House. Lomce is a law that we have confronted and that we will continue to reject. The Lomce, as I say, is something that at the moment has no place in some educational models, does not enter, there is no possible entanglement. And I refer, among other things, to its starting points, challenges, stage objectives, exit profile of the student, curricular contents based on academicism, against education by competences, for example, Basque specific curriculum, which has demonstrated its ability to move forward, methodology, evaluation, early separation of the student from the different teachings and professionals from the 3rd of the ESO, curriculum diversification, disappearance of cycles in Primary Education, design of the basic FP, autonomy of centers, power of school councils and directions, etc. Lomce and what we mean by democracy at the moment are quite angry, and Lomce and Basque self-government are like water and oil, quite the opposite. Education is too serious to be subject to partisan, irresponsible and short-term interests, which is the worst. I would like to re-emphasize why the Basque education system - in the field of dual vocational training, the method of learning in languages, etc. - has triumphed. The result are the professionals who are in the leading Basque companies that are currently in the world working, selling, exporting, betting on R & D. All this is the result of an educational system in which my people have believed from the beginning, in which private public collaboration has been fundamental, in which concertation has been something between the education sector, the political parties, the institutions. Social areas have worked together to do so. Although we differ a little from how this bill is drafted, we will support its consideration because we consider it to be opening a door to be able to go in and develop something and to paralyze that timetable. I'm going to end a sentence that's probably known to everyone but that's pretty important. Derek Bok, who served as rector of Harvard University for many years, said: If investing in education is expensive, try it with ignorance. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u51	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u52	Good afternoon, Madam President. Members of Parliament, members of the educational community, once again I rise to this rostrum to give on behalf of my group, Squerra Republicana, the vote in favour of the repeal of the Lomce, and if I am not mistaken I do so for the third time. In the previous two, the derogation was approved, but the Lomce and the timetable remain in force. Let us hope to have more luck now, with the new-old government, and that what this Congress agrees today will be respected and fulfilled. It may surprise you, but I will start by recommending a book, the last book of the proposer, Manuel Cruz, Being Timeless. In fact, I have collected a phrase from his reflections that inspires me: We can fall into the eternal remastered return. This applies to the old-new government, but it also applies to the lack of memory, because we can enter a temporary loop, presenting over and over again the suspension of the Lomce, the invalids, etc. I hope we get over it. Allow me an illusion: a Congress with more philosophers and less state lawyers, with all my respect for state lawyers. A Congress like this may allow us to speak more and better about the meaning and why we do it, and less about the way things have to be done. We miss the endless discussion of the details, the result of varied obsessions - Wert and his obsessions; we still pay them -, and we forget one thing: that the simple is always more effective. The Lomce has been - and still is - the monument to the obsessions of those who believe that the past time has always been better, and that they confuse the effort with doing complicated things - and sometimes very much -, when it would be best to make them simple, especially if we make basic laws; simple. It is said - and in this case the source is another philosopher, Marina Garcés - that the difficulties are the lure of desire, and the complication instead is the trap of those who believe themselves powerful. I agree, because whoever shares the difficulties brings in a game of interlocution, that of: let's think together. How good it would be for us in this Congress to think together and to leave that terrible vice of thinking. Instead, whoever saw his speeches, his work of complications made him declare his superiority and impose it as inaccessible. Two models of thought. In terms of ex-ministers, it would be Gabilondo-Wert: two models of thought. Against what is said, I think that exposure to difficulty is equal, because it presupposes the equality of intelligence as the starting point of any relationship, whether educational, affective, aesthetic or political. Political equality is also good. But with the Lomce we have not sought equality, overcoming inequalities with effort and cooperation. No, what is sought is competition in a society in which we start from deep inequalities, in which our children do not have an equal starting point. Of course, we have to evaluate, but education - and even more so the compulsory - must have a formative function, of aiding learning. On the other hand, a constant race of tests, obstacles and revalidations at the end of each stage is anti-pedagogical, punitive and exclusionary. They continue to confuse effort with complicating things and, please, enough to say that those who have had responsibilities for forty years in teaching say that teaching is very bad, because it is not true. The educational community has struggled and struggled for the best possible teaching, and it is an example. We cannot compare ourselves with those countries that have been fighting for public and secular education for many years, investing money, creating the foundations for a successful school system. The school community in our country has been the constant and constant effort to prevent policy from destroying education. I remember where we came from, from the forty years of Francoism, of cultural and educational indigence. My generation, the one who saw Franco die at the age of 20, knows what we're talking about. Of my people - 5,000 inhabitants -, of my primary class - forty-five students - I was the only one who went to university, and four more to the institute, the same institute in 1970 than in 1845, the Provincial Institute. Of course, changes have to be made, much remains to be done, but it has to be done differently, with the educational community, respecting the nations, which exist and demand respect. Because the past time was not better, or at least it was not better for the great majority, and the future cannot be plagued by a lomce that is obsessed, that looks to the past. Let us repeal it again - we will repeal it again today - even though it is through a procedure for my excessively long taste, as proposed by this proposed law. Finally, paraphrasing a politician of the same party as the proponent: For God's sake, let's repeal it now, for God's sake. [[Laughter]] Thank you, Madam President. Education and the Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u53	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u54	Look at you - and before you start -, listening to you, I feel shame. Has any of us stopped to think that while we are having this kind of debate, absolutely partisan and anchored in the past - said the comrade of Republican Left who likes to remember, but Wert has already passed; already happened -, are there children we are leaving without a good education? Is anyone aware that every minute we spend here discussing who's right, who's going to take the medal, there are kids who are going to stay out of the system? After this reflection I begin my intervention. [[Applauds]] For me it is always an honor to talk about education, first because it is one of the fundamental values of my party, and second, because I personally believe it. Without good education we will not have a prosperous society, we will not have a free society and we will not have a truly democratic society. Education is therefore fundamental. Having said that, I will be very clear and very direct with my speech, Minister. We citizens are going to vote in favour of taking account of the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party, a proposal which, despite what is being tried to sell, I would like to remind you that it does not ask for anything more or less than what we have already managed to work on, negotiating a compromise with the Government: the halting of the Lomce implementation timetable - eye, here we are not debating the repeal of the Lomce, but the halting of the implementation timetable -; the launching of a national pact for education - which I see is going to be difficult, after listening to you - and, thirdly, the elimination of the academic character of the disabled during that period, in that moratorium, of the academic nature of the disabled. We are going to support it for four basic reasons: firstly, because we believe in parliamentarianism, and we believe that taking a law into consideration is always good, beyond the fact that we can then debate amendments, whether or not we agree with the substance of some issues. Secondly, we are going to support it because this proposal for a law reflects the substance of the agreement we reached with the Socialist Party on that failed investiture that did not go ahead, where it was said in text that we were going to set up a table to reach a social and political pact within six months, and that in the meantime the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce in all aspects that had not entered into force would be halted immediately. But it is also that this proposal for a law reflects in part the pact we have made with the People's Party, which in its point 78 says textually - and this is already, there is no need to make a proposal for a law - that a pact for education will be promoted in a parliamentary subcommittee, and that in that period the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce in all those aspects that would not have entered into force, among others the revalid ones. Finally, we are going to vote in favour of the inclusion because this proposal for a law reflects the substance of the technical solution that I spoke to the minister in order to give a way out of the issue of invalids. Firstly, the suspension and the approach of the moratorium on the timetable; secondly, the elimination of the academic effects of the invalids while we constituted a pact, and thirdly, a pact where we worked seriously and with consensus for an educational improvement and not because we were fighting. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I would like to say that I also find it somewhat strange to take this law into consideration at this time, because we honestly do not see too much sense in making a proposal for a law at this time when we are trying to reach an agreement to establish a pact and be able to make a better law on education. With all due respect, and after what I have heard, I believe that some parliamentary forces are using this as a tool of political propaganda, and we are not going in there. But we also understand that as this reflects the agreement we have with the People's Party, there would also be no greater problem in supporting or letting it be taken into consideration, since this is theoretically going to be done by an agreement and is going to be done before this law actually gets processed in Parliament, so it seems harmless to us. As a concussion I will say that we are faced with the example of how we cannot continue to address education. Look, we can't keep doing fallacious battles in front of public opinion, selling each of our chocohona eagerly and with the idea of satisfying our audience. [[Applauds]] Do you really believe that the 40,000 families that have a problem with the disabled right now are worried if I wear the medal, if it's put on by the Lord of the Socialist Party or if it's put on by the Minister of Education? Do you really think that's what the students are worried about? What students want is to know how, what, and when they're going to have to examine, and that's what we should be working on. What we are seeing today in this House does not in our view reflect the spirit we consider necessary for a real improvement in education; for the parties to stop using frantism in education and for us to start working with intelligence and strategy. So far, education has been reformed seven times; since the law came into force, none has lasted more than six years; it is true that Lomce was adopted unilaterally, that it was done without consensus and in an unresponsible way from our point of view, which has led to legislative chaos, but what little responsibility the autonomous communities of the government party have had to refuse to implement the law when it was theirs. Ladies and gentlemen, enough is enough; enough is enough to use education as a bold weapon. Enough of the propaganda battles, enough of the fact that we are forgetting the fundamental problems, enough of the fact that we are forgetting the important problems: the failure of the school, the need to change the access of the teacher, the coexistence of the school, the bullying - we are having problems right now -. Education is our passport for the future, it is our passport for the future, it is the most powerful weapon we have to fight against inequalities. It is the most powerful weapon we have to combat the threat of populism. It is also the soul of society, which will remain from one generation to another. The difference between a country that has good education and a country that has no education is greater than that of that country between centuries. So we can't play it in this. I suggest one thing: let's change the chip. Let's all change the chip, and as Benedetti says in that beautiful poem, the poem of the soul, let's make a deal: I would like to count on you and you know that in this you can count on me. Let's make a deal: at least in the field of education let's try to conceive of politics not as the exercise of power and not as a conflict of interest where we talk about enemies and friends. We conceive of politics as a free and intelligent people's activity with the ability to provide solutions. Gabriel Celaya said - I finish already - that to educate... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u56	...is the same as putting an engine on a boat. We have to measure, we have to think, we have to balance and we have to set things in motion. If we really want to improve education we will have to carry in the soul a lot of generosity, a lot of concentrated patience, some sailors, some poets and no pirates. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u57	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking again about Lomce, a law that has achieved things that seemed impossible, and that is how we will recognise it. It seemed impossible to bring the whole educational community into line, and yet this law succeeded: teachers, parents' associations, trade unions and students have massively and continuously expressed their absolute rejection of an undialogued, unjust and educationally useless law. On the other hand, it seemed impossible for the parties to agree on something, and with the logical exception of the People's Party, the majority of the parties in this House presented themselves to the last elections by promising to repeal this educational law, repeal the Lomce, not only a part of the Lomce, but also delay its implementation. So with this background it seemed impossible that the one previously known as the Wert Law would reach the year 2017. But the reality is that Lomce is moving forward, as teachers, students and families know and suffer. What happened? What has happened so that an educational law that was born without the slightest consensus, a law that has been answered with twenty-eight educational strikes, a law rejected by the majority of this House on two occasions - one the last legislature and the other in this one - remains in force and apparently enjoys such good health? It can be turned around as it pleases, but there is a reality that is undeniable, and it is that another educational law replaces another educational law, and for that it was necessary an alternative of government, an alternative of government for which - we have said it other times - there were numbers in this Parliament, and which however the Socialist Party did not want or did not allow it to be explored. Now, two weeks after the abstention, which has allowed the continuity of the party of cuts and Lomce at the head of the executive, the socialist comrades present us with a proposal for a law for the halting of the calendar of implementation of Lomce, a calendar that, as you know, is already well advanced. The PSOE, with its abstention, therefore appears to have moved from calling for the repeal of the Lomce to the modification of organic parts of the Lomce and of the Lomce to the halting of the implementation timetable. By paraphrasing the old slogan of the 80's, we could say that of: Lomce, entry no. Again late, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. You're late for all the important appointments. They came late to the conclusion that they could form government with Podemos and look at the outcome. Even to be opposition it's too late for you. On this path you will be late to your own congress, if you let them call it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear, at this stage the halting of the Lomce calendar basically means the suspension of the evaluative effects of the revalids, not the suspension of the revalids, but that they continue to be carried out without being decisive in obtaining the title. This and nothing else is what we're discussing here. Ladies and gentlemen, our group has always expressed itself against final or revalid tests, as they represent, in our view, an obsolete conception of the educational process, a concept which has no justification whatsoever. The majority of teachers and experts argue that it is a pedagogical nonsense to make the student play everything to the letter of an exam, without taking into account the results obtained through the continuous evaluation, in addition to the negative that it would be to leave invalid the years studied for suspending a final test. On the other hand, the invalids represent a discredit of the teaching work, as they involve interrupting the teaching process with an external agent, which breaks the idea of a continuous educational process. On the other hand, this system also harms students with learning problems or with a different, non-memorial, learning style, and in this sense will not serve to reduce early school drop-out, a bleed that according to all international indicators is one of the major problems of our country's educational system. In short, the disabled do not serve to improve the quality of education nor will they achieve the right levels of learning for our students, but the disabled are going to be a career of obstacles that many of our young people are going to take off from, and will do so by those who have more entry difficulties, those who are more vulnerable and have fewer resources. Those are the ones who penalize their revalidities: the ones below, the ones who are always. We know the anguish that these tests are generating between families and students, who rightly fear that their future can be twisted by a bad test. That is why we are voting in favour of taking this bill into consideration, but we want to be clear, it seems to us to be an insufficient measure, a measure that remains half way, because the educational community has also been very clear, neither wants revalidation, nor wants revalidation simulations. In our view, it serves little to postpone the evaluation character of these tests two or three courses, while they continue to be conducted and in this way normalizing. The commitment of most of the groups in this House to their voters - I would remind you again - was not to paralyse a timetable of application, but to repeal the Lomce and thus to eliminate these tests definitively. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that we have forgotten our commitments or, worse, that we have changed them for Lampedusian winches, you know, to change something for nothing to change, a wink that would even have the approval of Citizens and the People's Party itself. In fact, on 26 October, and coinciding with the call for a new strike day, the Government announced the arrest of the invalids in a drum and platter. Then we knew that it was not a question of paralyzing anything, but only of suspending its effects on the qualification, and also only for the six months, while we agreed on a new national pact for education, what we said in passing gives us an idea of what this Government means by an educational pact, because six months give for what they give, that is, for an agreement above, an agreement of parties and elites, without opening the debate to the educational community or, in other words, the beginning of another educational law condemned to failure, which is a dangerous move, since the patience of the educational community with this kind of procedure has long been exhausted. Therefore, with this bill we follow the script set by the triple alliance, a triple alliance that has allowed the continuity of the government of Mariano Rajoy, which allows the Lomce to follow, which allows the cuts in education to follow. And now they want to present us as a victory of the Socialist Party that the invalids continue, but that they remain without evaluative effects. If this is an example of the model of opposition you intend to exercise, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, do not strive, nor convince us, nor do I think you convince anyone. Of course, someone can say that better than nothing, but in our opinion we are shifting the focus of the problem, a problem called Lomce, because Lomce, ladies and gentlemen, is something more than an ideological law, which only seeks to restore the old obsessions of the right, you know, catechesis in schools or to Spanishize Catalan children. As I say, Lomce is something else, it is an educational law that is framed in a very concrete country model, a country that does not intend to get out of the crisis from above, innovating and recovering industrial fabric, but on the contrary, cutting public services, specializing in low value-added products and devaluing wages. Lomce is an underdeveloped law, designed for a country on the periphery of Europe. You, gentlemen of the PP, do not trust Spain; you do not trust the Spanish, and that is why you legislate with a suspicious look, which blames the students for what their failures are. This law divides society between elites and precariouss, as is clearly demonstrated by the early choice of educational itineraries in the 3rd ESO, where it is oriented towards students, according to their results, towards vocational training or to the baccalaureate. This early expulsion from the education system, which separates those who have talent from those who do not, creates conditions for an unskilled, cheap and merely instrumental workforce, just what you seek, a law that divides and hierarchies schools according to the establishment of rankings, completely unfair rankings that not only do not take into account the socio-economic conditions of the teaching process, but break one of the main achievements of the public school, as all studies recognize: the inclusive capacity of our system. In this way they will take down the work of decades in a few years, and yes, they will pass into history as sepulchers of our country's intelligence. A law that equates public and private education, allowing private schools to cover public places, even allowing private schools that segregate on grounds of sex to receive funding. In short, Lomce is a law that ceases to conceive the school as a space of socialization and cultural transmission, and ends up reducing it to a staff selection department. For these and other reasons, my group believes that the answer to this situation cannot be simply by making Lomce more digestible or by extending the deadlines for its application. That is why, although we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, we have no illusions. A few days ago we heard the Minister of Education say that Lomce was not going to be repealed, and that in any case the famous educational pact did not have to mean the end of this law. Well, we believe just the opposite. We argue that recovering public education and repairing the damage that has been inflicted on him in recent years goes by permanently burying the Lomce and opening the debate on a new educational law, a debate not only between parties, not only among elites, but fundamentally with the educational community. This was the commitment to which we have come to this House and it is the commitment that we are going to maintain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Moneo Diez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last December's elections opened a new stage in our country. The citizens made it clear that the new scenario that emerged from the ballot box, and more clearly ratified last June, required a new way of understanding and practicing political activity from the different forces. This House, the Parliament, should become the perfect setting for the search for agreements, for consensus, dispelling past prejudices and accepting that, despite the deep differences that can separate us, it is much more important that unites us. Ladies and gentlemen, in political and parliamentary activity what it served a few years ago I am afraid it is no longer useful today. All of us in this House have made commitments to the citizens, we have all defended them passionately, surely with the firm conviction that it was these and not others who could have affected the improvement of those who had placed their trust in us. It's totally legitimate. Now this new stage that citizens have validated with their vote requires going much further, because above and beyond the legitimate aspirations of one another society will not accept that initiative that does not start with one word: agreement. We have understood this and therefore we would not like the initiative which the Socialist Parliamentary Group is debating today to close the door to the agreement. It is not our intention to do so, although I must tell you that the intervention of the Socialist spokesman is making it very difficult for us to do so. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not going to fall into provocation. If someone wants to be excluded from the pact because in the background, perhaps that pact is going to address a serious educational debate, beyond fundamentalisms, beyond created stereotypes, to do so. We are not going to do it and it is not our intention to leave any group in this House out. The Spanish would not understand that, if for months we have talked about the need for a great pact for education, we intend to lay the foundations of that pact on a broncho debate when we are already working in this House on the establishment of a subcommittee that can give the agreement a green light. That is why we do not understand what this initiative, this debate, is about. Some of your honors have said it was meaningless. If it doesn't make sense, then why vote for it? What is the meaning of your debate today? Maximum when you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, know that your effects can be limited in some cases but harmful in others. It seems that to sit down and negotiate they need certain conditions, that the achievement of a pact must necessarily go through the cascade to an educational law legitimately adopted by the majority of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that you are beginning this journey by making the same mistakes of the past; mistakes that have unfortunately prevented our education system from advancing the needs and requirements of society of the future. While we are discussing, there is an educational reality adopted by those countries that have experienced a qualitative and quantitative leap in the quality of their system and in the improvement of its results; a reality based on the culture of transparency, accountability, the autonomy of the centres, the strengthening of the teaching staff and their training throughout their professional life. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not understand education either from aprioristic approaches or from ideological trenches. We come to the pact with the firm will to reach an agreement; we know that this will entail changes and legislative changes, but we will decide that here in this House among all. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party has taken steps towards agreement, but we are taking a step forward and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, are taking a step back. Today they have taken several steps backwards and so it is very complicated for us to find ourselves in the middle. We are working sincerely to achieve the maximum consensus, because it is the commitment we have made to the Spaniards embodied in our electoral programme; because it is the commitment we have made to other political forces in this House, to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group; because it is the commitment of the President of the Government, who in his investiture not only advocated the need for the pact for education, but also took a step further by calling for the cessation of the academic effects of evaluations until that pact is achieved; because it is the commitment of this parliamentary group, which is working towards consensus on a joint text to start the work of the subcommission; and because it is the commitment of the Minister of Education, who has already announced the convening of the sectoral conference to reach an agreement with the advisers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, it is not going to remain for us, but for this I will have to remain alone with the final part of your speech, Mr Cruz, and forget the coven you intended to do this afternoon with the Lomce. Do you honestly think this is a constructive debate? I'm just asking you to come up with different assumptions. If this initiative is taken into account - as it appears to be so - we will be faced with a rule that would most likely anticipate the proposals and conclusions of the social and political pact for education resulting from the subcommittee. What if, for example, these conclusions say that 85% of the proposals of the social and political pact defended in its day by Minister Gabilondo which, by the way, contains Lomce must be preserved? Do we paralyze them? Are you going to paralyse them, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? Or do we repeal them? Take the place of families, pupils and teachers. What do we explain to them? What does the subcommission do, the Lomce with which their children are being raised does not serve? That next year they'll be studying with a different law? By the way, with what law? With LOE? Ladies and gentlemen, the LOE is repealed. The system and the families must be reassured. You know that Lomce is fully implemented in primary, secondary and high school and that basic vocational training is developing with absolute normality. What do we do if we follow his initiative, which paralyzes the implementation schedule and repeals it later? What do we do with the students? What do we give them? Shall we let them promote? To where? Do we also repeal, in the middle of the course after an agreement has been reached, the final baccalaureate test for university access? In what legal and administrative limbo do we leave secondary school students? Not to mention the financial issue, which you are so concerned about. You know that the implementation of Lomce is conditioned by the investment of the European Social Fund. Do you know that the paralysis of the same would imply for Spain the loss of more than 60 billion euros? Are we really in a position to dispense? [[Rumors]] [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u61	Wait a minute, Mrs. Moneo. Please, keep quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to remain silent. Go on, Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is neither sustainable nor in the form, because you know as we do that it is not possible to paralyse or repeal a regulatory rule in the educational field without a new timetable for implementation and implementation, nor in the substance, because in addition to the lack of technical rigour we are talking about personal consequences for those directly involved in education and economics for the whole country. They have made the speech - I want to understand - that much of their voters, of their unconditional needs, but, frankly, it is not the speech that education needs in our country. Education, ladies and gentlemen, needs serenity and calm, needs to look to the future and set aside the past, needs intelligence and generosity, because only through dialogue will it be possible to create and implement effective educational policies. To reach an agreement, everyone's agreement is needed, and this, ladies and gentlemen, also includes the People's Parliamentary Group, humbly endorsed by some 8 million Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. I recently had the opportunity to read a statement by an illustrious former Minister of Socialist Education in which he endorsed the need for agreement on education not without pointing out that consensus must be done. I cannot agree more, but let us not forget that consensus is the act by which several parties come to an agreement that satisfies everyone, do not forget it. Mr Cruz, as I said before, I will take the last part of your speech, precisely in the interests of that consensus. I'm just telling you one thing: we're waiting for you at the education subcommission. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u63	Thank you very much. [[The Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, Méndez de Vigo and Montojo, asks for the floor]] Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to this debate, in which positions have been expressed in favour of or against Lomce, but I believe that most of the speakers have agreed on one thing, and it is that the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which calls for the suspension of the timetable, has no immediate legal effect. That is so, because if the proposal for a law is taken into consideration, a long procedure begins that will lead in its case to the amendment of an organic law, since the timetable is in the fifth final provision of the law. It will therefore have no legal effect. The government wants to take a step forward, ladies and gentlemen. The Government has expressed its willingness - its President has done so - to reach a national pact for education. In addition, the Government will comply with the commitments made between the People's Party and Citizens at paragraph 78 - referred to here - with regard to the suspension of that timetable in what was not in force. The Government will also support in the Subcommission of the Education Commission the search for such a national pact for education. We know - it has been said here - that it is very difficult and that there have been many attempts. In the past, Spanish constitutionalism was characterized by the fact that when a party came to power it repealed the previous one's Constitution and put its own; however, in 1978 we were all able in this House to achieve the Constitution of Concord and Consensus, in which those who do not even believe in it can live. If we were able to make the Constitution, why we will not be able to make a national pact for education. Therefore, there are going to go - I have heard many positive interventions in that regard - those efforts. To effectively solve the reality of the educational community, which is currently studying the courses, I undertake to convene the sectoral conference on 28 November with the intention of reaching an agreement in line with what the President of the Government has marked and, therefore, his depending on the academic effects; not only for a year, for this year, where they were in fact suspended, where there are no academic effects, as someone has reminded us, but will do so until we have a national pact for education. I propose that at this sectoral conference we reach an agreement to give safety to the educational community and certainty to our students, as well as to improve the quality of education. These agreements will be translated effectively through a decree-law that we will present, once that agreement is reached, in this House. At the same time, Madam President, it is the intention of the Government and the parliamentary group to support you in working on that subcommittee to achieve that national pact for education. Already with her foot in the stairwell, Madam President, Don Miguel de Cervantes said that in life it could be a road or an inn. The Government will be on its way, and I hope that on that path, in favour of the national pact for education, we will find many parliamentary groups in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u65	We turn to the third item on the agenda concerning non-legislative proposals. No bill proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on improving and updating the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence, and no bill proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on promoting a social, political and institutional pact that regains the spirit of consensus of the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence, linking all political parties, State powers and civil society in a firm commitment to a sustained policy for the eradication of gender-based violence. These initiatives will be discussed cumulatively, as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons. For the presentation of the first initiative, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u66	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a woman wants to start a new life, without insults, without beatings, without harassment. When he gets to the portal, he thinks, for the last time, about his home. She remembers how she just left it: messy. He's convinced he'll be furious when he gets back. Doubt, shake, turn around, go up the stairs again to your floor. You don't give him time to pick up before he gets here. He never goes down walking those stairs again or any other. No one has seen what he didn't verbalize but that he had written down at blows on his body. What this woman has lived to die has also suffered many others. The three children of another woman will grow up without her, and her killer, when she meets the sentence of approximately eighteen years in prison, to which Spanish legislation - one of the most advanced in the world -, trying to stop this tragedy, has punished her, will have no one to turn and will turn to her children, who, unfortunately, have a father who is also her mother's killer. Ladies and gentlemen, there are too many women who die at the hands of their partners, too many who do not report to their life mate, to their children's father, to the boyfriend, to the companion they would like to be free from, but to whom, unfortunately, they wanted one day. We agree that one woman is already too much. We agree that equality should not be a conquest but a reality in 2016. We agree that women should find themselves safe in their homes and not think of their homes as the worst scenario, a place where they live with fear under threats. We agree that a woman has the right to break a relationship at the time she wishes without having to worry about the consequences of such a decision. As long as there is only one case of gender-based violence, we cannot stop working to eliminate it, to eradicate it. Because we all agree on all that and for all women, for all of them, is why today we bring this non-law proposal to this House. In fact, we have a new, different text, the result of the agreement reached between the two proposing groups, the Socialist Group and the People's Group, since we thought it absurd to present two initiatives in this plenary whose priority was the same: the security, life and confidence of women. It was absurd not to try to reach this debate with an agreement. That is why we have tabled a new text this morning, as a result of a long negotiation in recent days, in which we have finally reached an agreement between the two proposing groups. We also want to extend this agreement to the rest of the groups, to those who have tabled amendments and to those who have not tabled them, because the fundamental objective is to form a united united united front and to launch a strong message of rejection of gender-based violence and a strong will to support women. For that reason, because we have reached agreement on a text that will be the basis of joint work to improve the response we give to this daily tragedy, I will leave aside any partisan consideration and, simply, I will say that, since we are aware of the magnitude and gravity of gender-based violence, all the governments and parliaments that have had responsibility in this area have done their best that they have been able and known. So that, in recent years, we have set up a system of judicial and social response that is considered internationally as one of the most advanced. It certainly is, but we want it to be more effective. We want to be able to give women solutions that make the complaint and the subsequent judicial process less difficult; to strengthen them in their decision; to be able to support even those who for one reason or another have preferred not to denounce the situation of ill-treatment. We also want to reinforce the message that there is a way out of gender-based violence with the support of our judicial system and responsible administrations, as well as that women have the right and the capacity to rebuild themselves and build a new life without violence; that their children deserve to grow in an environment in which they can develop as people without the consequences that violence against their mothers or against themselves leaves, unfailingly, in their personality. The ability to reach agreements is nothing new if we agree essentially. It was achieved at the time of the adoption of Organic Law 1/2004, and I believe that we will succeed now when, in addition, we face a double challenge: to strengthen the effectiveness of the existing system and to update it according to international requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014, Spain ratified the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention. It has been ratified by forty countries, including several of the European Union, and its main objective is to protect women from all forms of violence that they suffer from merely being women and to promote international cooperation to eliminate such violence. The convention broadens the concept of violence against women or gender-based violence, including new offences and broader behaviours among subjects other than those in our legislation. There will no longer have to be a couple present or past relationship, but other forms of violence that were not currently considered gender-based violence - rape, sexual abuse or forcing a woman into prostitution, for example - will become gender-based violence. This very important amendment obliges us to reconsider Organic Law 1/2004 or to draw up a new rule, since all the legal and social protection framework that we have put in place has focused on those victims of violence in the context of the relationship. And although in recent years very important changes have been made with the incorporation, for example, of minors as victims, the inclusion of new crimes in the Criminal Code or the important work done in the field of trafficking, it is clear that extending the scope of the organic law to other areas of women's life, such as social or labour, will pose a very important challenge for which Parliament needs as much agreement as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, almost twelve years after the adoption of the organic law, we believe that the time has come to shift this comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach to other violence also suffered by women, as the Observatory against Domestic and Gender Violence of the General Council of the Judiciary at its Sixth Congress, held just two weeks ago, has reminded us in detail. This important task, the effort to update our system through the signing of a state pact against gender-based violence, will be carried out in this House through the creation of a subcommittee within the Equality Commission, one of the points that we have agreed with the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the amendment that we have tabled together and that we are already improving with the input of the rest of the groups. For this reason, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Group have submitted a compromise text with the aim of erasing our differences on this issue and so that the text that is being defended in this House is one rather than two different ones and that this text has as its objective the elaboration of a state pact, as the Government and the parliamentary groups claim. As we say on many occasions, it is more our agreements than our disagreements, more those things in which we agree than those that separate us, and above the differences are the lives and security of many women - too many - and their sons and daughters. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u67	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of what happened at the last sitting we had in this House. Last Saturday, October 29, the Speaker of the House opened the session with a minute of silence showing the revulsion towards Machist crimes. Is it not surprising to your ladies and gentlemen that this gesture has been criticized on social networks and in various opinion articles? That criticism is a symptom that many people lived that minute of silence as an imposture of those who for years have maintained some indifference, a lack of diligence and a lack of empathy from the Government, and it is not an opinion. Do you know that there has been no institutional condemnation of the latest Machist crimes since the responsible ministry in recent quarters? This country no longer wants more imposture, wants strong answers and effective answers. Ladies and gentlemen, in the spring of 2015, the Socialist Party, through a letter sent by the Valencian MP to Minister Ana Mato, called for the Government to promote a social, political and institutional agreement against gender-based violence. We therefore call for faster progress in the implementation and improvement of the VioGen system, we request the Secretary of State to report on the security dysfunctions that had occurred in fatal cases with previous denunciation, and we present initiatives for better law enforcement. Requests for attendance were never met, and we only obtained non-compliance, delays and none of the opposition's proposals, which came to the extreme of voting against initiatives that sought to strengthen, for example, educational support for orphans or a greater involvement of the health system in prevention and case identification. Well, the Government must know that although its record makes it unreliable, we need to move towards a pact in this area. Why? Because we need to frame and agree on the long-term actions of the State in a matter that the Socialists have always considered to be of significance. We have been trying for years to convince the People's Party Government of the need for an agreement to safeguard social and also budgetary efforts and commitments to combat violence that is too frequent for the whole country, but the pact cannot be a mere declaration. It is also wrong for those who think that the pact is the GNP that we are presenting together today. We present in the non-law proposal what we believe to be urgent, which does not represent much less all the aspirations that socialists have in this matter. All these proposals are only the basis for starting to negotiate and regain the spirit of consensus of Law 1/2004, a law that has been forged by linking everyone and everyone in a commitment not only to gender-based violence but also to the sexism that feeds it. It is therefore important to make it clear that the pact is not this GNP, but that this GNP opens the door to the pact. The essence of our initiative is to bring to the framework of Congress a space to negotiate the agreement. This afternoon, with the creation of a subcommission to start the work, what we are sending is a message that this pact will be of all parties, of all institutions and of all civil society, and, shortening the deadlines, we also transmit the urgent message that society is demanding of us. We will seek to compromise the participation of the autonomous communities and the municipalities, which are bearing the greatest burden in terms of prevention and support for victims, but also of civil society organizations, the media, the education system and a judiciary that must avoid being perceived as an obstacle by the victims. We will seek today, therefore, the incorporation of most possible amendments, but the negotiating space for the pact will be the subcommittee, where we must respond to questions such as, for example, the elimination of the confession attenuator for this type of crime, or, for example, the modification of the waiver of the obligation to declare against the spouse. We will address the shortcomings of a reform of the People's Party which has tried to provide legal aid since before the filing of the complaint, but which, as the lawyers are telling you, does not work because you have not made it mandatory. From a state pact, ladies and gentlemen, we will demand economic transparency in advertising campaigns because we know that the distribution has not always been made according to the effectiveness of the messages but to other interests. A pact is going to claim a lot of things. For example, we need agreements to protect children under the age of sixteen and seventeen who, being victims of domestic macho violence, want to decide about their life and motherhood without asking permission from a potential violent father. Ladies and gentlemen, responses to violence cannot only be helpful because assistanceism does not combat machismo. This has been one of the main problems of government strategies in recent years. [[Applauds]] We need a comprehensive pact, a pact that incorporates the media because they are key to prevention, since, together with families and schools, they are the key element in the new processes of youth socialization. A State pact will also involve questioning some of the policies that have been made so far. For example, the Local Government Rationalization and Sustainability Act will need to be revised because removing equality competences from municipalities has been a strategic error that puts the victim care network at risk. Concern is also expressed at the increase in murders in which the victim had previously filed a complaint, which highlights a failure of the protection system that we urgently need to review. We are obliged to analyse the role of family meeting points and to legislate to give effect to the recommendations of the General Council of the Judiciary regarding this fateful concept of parental alienation syndrome or the imposition of shared custody in cases of violence. In addition, we must meet commitments - as the spokesman for the People's Party has said and I believe we agree with all groups - and international recommendations to respond to all forms of gender-based violence, because we are all called for changes in civil, criminal, procedural and international legal cooperation legislation or in legislation on asylum and shelter. I'm finishing up. It is a good symptom that today we come to a first agreement, but we will have to come to more because it is demanded of us by a society that demands intelligence and resources against an infamous and criminal machismo. I would like to conclude by thanking all groups for their willingness and commitment to the agreements we are trying to reach this afternoon. The essential thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that Parliament, as the highest expression of its citizens, today responds to the cry of the victims, of their families and of all women. This is where we must weave a solid pact and a deep pact that commits an entire society that wants to banish this intolerable evil in order to be considered a more just and dignified society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u68	In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Alli Martínez is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought you had two minutes, but I will stick to the time. We are presenting an amendment in which we are making the following reflection: if we are all against trafficking and trafficking in persons, the violation of rights and, therefore, the cosification of women, we will also be all against the spaces that give propaganda and publicity to prostitution. Therefore, the spaces in which such advertising is made, such as some written media, should be identified. I encourage you to reflect on the proposers in order to accept the amendment, and on those who are going to vote, all of you, to take it into consideration. One more thing. Naturally, the Navarro People's Union is in favour and we are pleased that the Socialist Party and the People's Party have reached an agreement to create a subcommission where effective and realistic measures are taken against violence against women.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u70	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u71	Thank you, President. If two minutes are little, one minute is even less to be able to explain all that remains to be done in macho violence. But before I begin, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Equality on the appointment of the new chief of staff, an Opus Dei militant, a person who is against women's freedom of decision on our own body, who will surely be a great ally of women's freedom. [[Applauds]] Today the PP comes back to us as part of the solution, and we quite disagree that all governments have done what they have been able to and have known, as we think the People's Party has been and is part of the problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop cutting budgets in equality and in macho violence; stop treating prostitutes as mere merchandise in the State General Budgets; stop focusing the problem on victims and let's start talking about aggressors; stop considering a good ally to a misogynist like Trump, or stop putting the accountant at zero every year. The victims of 31 December are as important as those of 1 January. Stop doing all this and we will begin to be part of a joint, realistic and truly working solution to eradicate this social scourge. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u72	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u73	Thank you, Madam President. A minute of gold to say that in 2003 in the Canary Islands we already considered, in the Law against Violence, Trafficking, Abuse and Harassment; it was 2003 and, however, that of the State does not contemplate it. We need to increase the assumptions of all violence against women. We need to put budget lines, gentlemen of the government, and get the money back to fight and integrate. We have to carry out prevention campaigns and we have to act immediately from this Congress on the issue of custody and on the issue of parental authority, because what is happening in this country is entrepreneurship, which is fixed in the courts for women who, having verified the violence, assaulted, after leaving the hospital, have to take their children to those people who have assaulted them. That has to be immediate. On the other hand, it is a subcommission and a state pact; it is not parliamentary groups but political forces and all the parties that we are in the Joint Group want to be in that subcommission. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u74	I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u75	Thank you. The position of Euskal Herria Bildu is of critical support because we believe that after these twelve years it is already time for us to speak less and do more in the institutions in this matter, because we can continue to sign agreements like that of Istanbul - which also mean overcoming what is currently being done in the State, such as adopting non-legislative proposals, regulations - but if they are not accompanied by a budget for their implementation, compliance indicators and accountability mechanisms, they will remain on wet paper. We are of the view that the macho violence suffered by thousands of women and minors and that it fractures a society is serious enough that the agreements we reach really make real progress. More clearly, it is not time to go out at noon to report cases that are becoming known while in the afternoon budgetary cuts are made in the area of equality and equity or while the Lomce eliminates co-education from the curriculum or continues to allow public representatives to denigrate and discredit women. It is urgent to build common living spaces where women can live free from all macho violence and to make models free of coexistence based on equality in order to achieve a shared social structure. That is why we support this initiative. We understand that every institution has to take this issue as a priority, because it is urgent to identify each of the violence and respond decisively from all areas and, even if we do not have much time, the commitment of Euskal Herria Bildu, even if not in minutes, will be on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u76	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Ciuro i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We welcome - it was about time - the possibility of amending the Act against Violence against Women. Since 2011, we have been unable to open the law for five years and are still not addressing the different grounds for male-based violence against women. Catalonia, 2008, a law against macho violence that already includes, before the Istanbul Convention, all types of violence against women and also protects children who are victims of violence. [[Show a copy]] We are tired of putting forward initiatives in this House in this regard and have always refused, let us hope that now, the pact is the way to channel this necessary reform of the Anti-Violence Act. On the other hand, Law 17/2015, a pioneering law at European level on equality for women. [[Show a copy]] It is another of the indispensable legs to advance against gender-based violence. The Government of the People's Party has challenged it and is appealing to the Constitutional Court. It has given priority to the ideological, political burden, to the detriment of women's defence. We also very much regret that the left in this case gave the silent answer to such an outrage in the application of this Catalan law, a very good law that is a pioneer, I repeat, at European level. These are two tools that we are going to use in the pacts, in the state pact and in the subcommittee that will be set up. We will help you have two good laws too. And we ask you - of course not! - to lift the suspension of the 2015 Catalan Law on Equality of Men and Women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u78	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u79	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I learned that this initiative was going to be dealt with here today, I was led by a person, a woman, whose name is Kasia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u80	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u81	Kasia's not like that Rajoy girl... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u82	One second, Mrs. Reyes, one second. Please, be quiet. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u83	Thank you, President. Kasia is not like that girl of Rajoy nor is she like that Joan of the meetings of Pedro Sánchez who today was called Juana and the next day was called Valeria. Kasia is a real person, she is a very brave woman, she is here today; she is a survivor, as she likes to be called. He has suffered gender-based violence in his own flesh, and with great courage he wants to give his face to help other women, so I decided to talk about it today in this rostrum. Kasia is an affiliate of Citizens, but that doesn't matter, she could have been affiliated with any other political party, or even not been affiliated with any of them. Gender-based violence does not discriminate on political grounds. On June 27th, something terrible happened to him. Her ex-husband tried to kill her, received nothing but 12 stab wounds. As you will all imagine, she is alive of miracle; she is alive of miracle above all thanks to her strength and her desire to fight. His alleged killer - I have to call him that - had a restraining order imposed by the judge and I wonder why we couldn't protect Kasia even though we knew this could happen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that something has failed in the system, something is failing in our system. What Kasia tells us, moreover, is that she has suffered all kinds of obstacles from the Administration, obstacles that have made her recovery difficult and that have made her feel doubly victimized. Of course we have progressed, of course we have, but we are already in 2016, we have a law that has been in force for more than ten years and statistics tell us that the number of murdered women is not reduced. On the other hand, 44 per cent of women victims of gender-based violence find this law ineffective. Who better than these women to make a diagnosis? Let's just listen to all those kasias in Spain. Don't you think they're telling us something? They're telling us to get to work, that while we're here to throw our shit at our heads, they die. Let's ask ourselves questions and look for solutions that will improve the law. For example, if only 30% of women at risk go to a court, what happens to 70% of women who, in any case, find it impossible to report? Hasn't the procedure been over-justified? Shouldn't we also go all the way out of court to help those women who aren't able to report? What about the children who suffer this violence, are we really taking care of them? And with that resurgence of machism among our young people, let us also work in education. If a recent report by the General Council of the Judiciary says that some of the courts of violence against women work at 30% of their capacity, while others do at 150 %, should we not reorganize them? Let us also bear in mind that many of these educational courts, which also assume the causes of gender-based violence, do not have a psychosocial team attached to it, do not even have space. I've lived this. I've seen some officials hide women who were terrified because they thought they were going to cross over with their attacker in the bathroom. This is what the victims of gender-based violence are suffering today. Let us also ask ourselves something important. Can gender-based violence be combated if active equality policies are not established and promoted? Hardly. Gender-based violence is nothing but the most serious, most dramatic consequence of the inequality that exists in our society. Mr Rajoy, in 2014, among many cuts, eliminated the Directorate-General for Equal Opportunities. They cut off from the other side, rationalize, but not in equality policies if they really want to fight gender-based violence. Frankly, these two initiatives are a good start that must end in that pact of State that has always claimed Citizens. The non-legislative proposals that we are discussing are not of our group, but actually are of our group, because they are in these two documents, they are in the pact with the PSOE and in the demands of Citizens to the PP, pages 42 and 43 with the PSOE and pages 25 and 26 in the demands of Citizens to the People's Party. We are deeply pleased that having had a dialogue with one and another party in the House has served to bring together positions, and I ask - I conclude, President - the rest of the parliamentary groups to work together and focus on who we should do it, on all those women who suffer hell in their day-to-day lives, to whom we can and must protect, and also on the memory of all those who unfortunately cannot do it. In particular, I ask the Group of Podemos. From here I ask you a question: would you ask Kasia for her membership card before you decide to help her or not? Saving of course the vast distances with what happened to her, I wanted to remember...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u84	Mrs. Reyes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u85	I'm done. I will remind you of what happened to fellow citizens and me at the end of the investiture session. The same people who cheered you, us women, called us whores, and excuse me if I use this term, but I think it's necessary. Do you think calling a woman a whore for the mere fact of being a whore is not machismo? I really think so. And if they really also support the fight against gender-based violence, the first thing they would have to do is denounce this act. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u86	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Rodríguez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we were celebrating today the anniversary of the 7-N, this march we made against macho violence, in which we demonstrated this great consensus that there was in society and in feminist movements with the demands that we all had and that were already of common sense, like what happened in the Sanfermines this year, that we all have very clear that it was machoism, but that our current laws, today, do not yet reflect. We welcome the fact that a year later these proposals from the People's Party and the Socialist Party that we are debating here echo what the demands of the 7-N were, but these proposals are not law, as always, insufficient and are late. We will make critical support, but we need to explain what those issues are, in our view, insufficient. I'll make a clarification first. This pact may be political and institutional because it is formulated by two parties in an institution, but of course it is not a citizen, because it does not have the support of the people - people are still out there and we have not spoken to them -. On the other hand, I would like to ask ourselves whether this is a state pact, because with what does not count - it is evident from the cuts we have suffered over and over again - it is with the support of the state. The first thing we would like to say today is that it is very difficult to make feminist policies when we do not want to call things by their name. What we're talking about here today is not about gender-based violence, it's about sexist violence. [[Applauds]] We believe that this differentiation is important. It is taken up by all the international bodies and conventions to which we - also the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and those of the People's Party - refer. We are talking about many more violences than those in the sphere of the partner or the ex-partner. Let us therefore call it macho violence, not because it is our whim, but because it is important that we name those things we want to combat, because the realities that are not named do not exist. And of course, we wouldn't want ridiculous things to happen to us, as happened at the time to the vice president of the People's Party who, asking her what was the best advice we can give to a girl who has been sexually harassed by the phone, was to say: Girls, don't look at the phones when your boyfriends write to you. We'd like to say today that it's not about the girls and the boys not looking at the phones. In fact, it's not just that we don't know how to name this. This is the problem, we don't have enough resources, nor is there good management so that girls and boys, when that happens, can put a name on it, which, in their case, is sexist harassment or sexual harassment. It is therefore very important that we work on those resources and on that management. What happened to the management of the People's Party? It's been bad management. And it's curious, because when one reads what all the agencies we're talking about, reads the Istanbul Convention or reads what the UN says about it, they make it perfectly clear that yes, there was actually an economic crisis that had a woman's face, but this is not enough to explain what the situation of women in this country is right now. The cuts in dependence, in education, in health, of course, in equality and in macho violence have made it possible to say that it has been the People's Party government that has made women in this country live worse today. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we need to name things by name and better management. On the other hand, it is good to show that the economy is something that falls from the sky, when the economy is a political issue, it is a political decision. That is why it seems to us so important that these data, which are reflected in this mismanagement today, should be put on the table: two out of three women who died of macho violence in 2015 had not filed a complaint. Most of the complaints made in 2010 were much lower than in previous years. What does this mean? We are not saying that we do not want women to file complaints, what we say is that we want the conditions of possibility to be given so that, when a woman has to file a complaint, she can do so. This is economic independence. If we do not have economic independence and autonomy, if we are not free, we cannot lodge complaints. Therefore, the measures proposed by the Socialist Party and the People's Party today are not worth anything, they are wet paper. [[Applauds]] If I may, I wanted to give another advice in the style of Soraya: Girls, don't let your boyfriends look at your cell phone, but above all don't let them cut you off. We are also surprised that the People's Party today calls for ratification of the Istanbul Convention when its Government has already done so. Perhaps it is because the deputies of the People's Party have to ask their own Government to ratify an agreement that has already been ratified since 2014. This also makes us wonder whether it is actually intended to be approved or not to be approved, or whether there is any part of this convention that is not going to be approved, although we actually believe that what happens is that there are things that are not meant to be said in this rostrum. I know it is very difficult for the people of the People's Party to get up here and say: we want to cut into macho violence. We want grandmothers with their 400 euros pension to feed their granddaughters, because their mothers can't feed them. So what they do is decide things elsewhere, because in those places it doesn't matter, and when what happens is that we skip the democratic channels from which citizens have been empowered to make decisions, they call it democracy and it isn't, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We know that they write very well, they write so well that it seems to be science fiction and sometimes we seem to believe it, but I'm going to tell you one thing: we're not going to strongly support anything that doesn't involve real commitments. Real commitments are to shield the General Budgets of the State, not to cut 33 % and to leave the budgets in 0.0005 % of the General Budgets of the State. In conclusion, it is scandalous that they ask that the municipalities and the autonomous communities take charge of certain games, when we know perfectly well that with the Montoro Law, I insist, this is science fiction. So I would also like to say: Girls, don't let them make laws to you, when what's happening is they're taking away resources from you, even though these resources are disguised as Red Riding Hood. Finally, I would like to address the Socialist Party and, in particular...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u88	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u89	I'm done. In particular, socialist women. Thank you for your laws. As a woman and as a feminist, I thank you, because I have read them from outside, but now that I am in and now that we have suffered a crisis - and you know it - these laws do not come, we have to change them and we have to improve them. That's why I'm telling you, what are you going to do? Are you going to follow the line of Article 135 and abstention or are you going to dare to make feminist policies with us? Yes, you can make a country... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u90	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u91	Yeah, you can make a country where machismo doesn't get in an ambulance. We do not want sexism in the beds, in the houses, in the payrolls, in the brothel, in the institutes, in the television sets or in this Chamber. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u92	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u93	We want a country with us. Not one less. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u94	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u95	I'm going to intervene very briefly, skipping the Republican Left's turn, but it's okay. I rise to this rostrum once again, and there are already many not the debates, but the years I have been going up to this rostrum, to talk about this subject. And like me, many other colleagues in this House. We can say a lot about gender-based violence. All the people who have come through here have said many things; I think we have said too many things for too long, but I do not know if we have done so many things as we have said for so long. It must be said that we are against it, but all these issues are empty, they are carried by the wind, they are written in the Journal of Sessions, and point. We are a little critical at first of what has been done so far and we are more critical of what has not been done. We - and it is nothing new - do not believe in excess of what you call national covenants. On the national side we do not believe clearly and, as far as the pact is concerned, the question would be what we are going to agree on, what is the purpose of that pact, to take a photo, to sign a document, to change a law, to enforce a law? When we have come up to this rostrum and have been governing that group and that group, we have made the same criticism: what is the problem?, why does not what is said in the law apply? [[Pointing to both sides of the House]] Well, some of them dropped the same incendiary bombs according to who was ruling. Let us be serious and not make gender-based violence an element that allows us to hold some extraordinary rallies from this rostrum like who lays two more hard eggs on the subject. What we would really have to do is seriously remember the victims and know what happens to the legislation that we have adopted here so that day after day there will still be more abused women, more murdered women and the subject of the scourge of gender-based violence will continue in this society. During the years 2008 and 2009 I participated together with others who are here in a subcommittee and this is your report. Therefore, the subject of the subcommission is nothing new, but we already created one and its objective was the study and operation of the Comprehensive Law on Measures against Gender Violence and, where appropriate, proposals for amendments. This is the report. Attendances were held, experts came and a summary, conclusions, recommendations were made at the educational, institutional and social levels, at the level of judicial guardianship, etc. And there was one element that seems to have been forgotten, the budget. Obviously, if we want all the legal, police, social and family measures that appeared in the recommendations to be implemented in the judicial, police, social and family spheres, all these institutions must be provided with a sufficient budget to be able to address the fight against gender-based violence with guarantees. If not, the rest is tale. When a couple breaks up because they cannot live with someone who kills or mistreats, the victim then needs financial support other than social support, psychological support and institutional support. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u96	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u97	So, let's be serious. We can make all the pacts and they're fine, we'll have to work and we won't be the ones to turn against it, but we can't profile ourselves. Let's be consistent. Gender-based violence is a social scourge that we must combat by all means. To begin with, let us hope that in the next General Budgets of the State bringing in the Government there will be a section in which the institutional commitment to combat it will be seen, with budget lines that will truly ensure that it is prepared to fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u98	Thank you very much. I would like to remind Mr Agirretxea that he had the floor before Mrs Jordà i Roura because they have not tabled amendments. The Socialist Left Parliamentary Group then gave the floor to Mrs Jordà i Roura.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u99	Too late to all and so to all. The People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are proposing initiatives to eradicate what they rightly call a social tragedy. The People's Parliamentary Group in Congress wants to improve and at the same time update the Organic Law 1/2004, against gender-based violence - an organic law that has been budgeted - and the Socialist Parliamentary Group demands a social pact, a political pact and an institutional pact that they call for to recover that law. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear and serious. Talking about gender-based violence is talking about male-based violence; male-based violence has its cruelest expression in the murders of women at the hands of men. It is true that in recent years we have made legal progress in the care and protection of women who suffer male violence with the introduction of the problem on the political agenda and on the media agenda and, ultimately, with social awareness. However, we denounce - and must continue to do so - cuts in the prevention of macho violence and in the care of victims, and we call for the recovery of all cut-off budget lines so that the measures provided for in state and autonomous laws are fully developed. In the face of macho violence, more effective than the minutes of silence - whether one, two or three or extremely silent - are the resources to combat it, but real resources. Beyond that and the new measures that will be adopted, taking advantage of the fact that we have these five minutes - now only two and a half - in the rostrum, let us make some reflections. The first is that macho violence is being addressed from an absolutely short-sighted approach, without paying due attention to structural causes. Machist violence is not only the fruit of intolerant and savage personal attitudes, but it is also the consequence of a society in which violence and machism are implicitly and daily lived and legitimized. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot obviate the existence of a macho society as the context in which violence against women takes place. It is clear that heteropatriarchal roles prevail in our society and are often linked to violent attitudes. In addition, these roles are repeated by media such as television, in which patriarchal stereotypes are reinforced, even in cartoons, allowing for their transmission to future generations. This heteropatriarchal culture, ladies and gentlemen, always ends in an idea of very concrete masculinity and accepted mostly, an idea that translates into hegemony of domination. It is right here, in this hegemony of domination, where it is essential to influence and rewrite masculinity, the deconstruction of the concept of male and female relations from freedom and always, always from equality. All this happens in the context of a macho society in which still today the dependence or submission of women towards their husbands is maintained and in which they end up charging against them. In this sense, part of the structural problem is the lack of equality between the members of the couple, the permanence of patriarchal roles and the unfair professional distribution of roles, valuing more the male than the female, charging more the men than the women and prioritizing at the same time their employment access, especially to the most prominent positions. To this must be added the professional resignation that women very often make in favour of the family, especially in a society in which there is no reconciliation of work and family life. Now I'm done. Legislation should take into account the structural context. The struggle is not only the eradication of macho violence, but also the eradication of machoism and we hope that some day even violence. At the door of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women... [[Shows a brochure.-End your Catalan intervention]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u100	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs González Vázquez and Mrs Álvarez Álvarez: do your groups accept some of the amendments tabled? Mrs. Alvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: We are currently collecting the signatures of all the groups to make a compromise that will be presented by all the groups in the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u101	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups, the proposers, the amendments and the non-amendants, because I am convinced that they are going to join us, because today is the beginning to reach a great pact of state so that no woman will die in the hands of her abuser. This is the commitment of the Government of Spain, of our President Mariano Rajoy. Today is a day of hope for the thousands of women who are looking at us, who are watching us, who are suffering from silence. Today I want us to convey a clear message to the whole of society, and that is that from the dialogue we are able to agree to fight the scourge of gender-based violence. Violence does not understand ideologies and I am convinced that from dialogue we will achieve it. They will always find this minister in dialogue. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2015, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION: - REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2015, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION. [[File number 023/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u103	Finally, we move on to the debate on the report on the implementation of the House's budget for the financial year 2015, in accordance with Rule 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure. For the presentation of a summary of the report, I give the floor to the first secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Report on the implementation of the Congress of Deputies' budget for the financial year 2015. In accordance with the principle of budgetary autonomy enshrined in article 72.1 of the Constitution and in compliance with article 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, the report on the implementation of the House's budget for 2015 is presented to the plenary, the general lines of which are set out below. The Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, at its meeting on 23 September 2014, approved the draft budgets of the House for the year 2015, which in turn became part of the General Budgets of the State for that year, approved by Law 36/2014 of 26 December, with an overall amount of 84,243,490 euros, which represents 0.04% of the total of the General Budgets of the State. Of the total amount of appropriations initially authorised, those actually committed amounted to EUR 73,063,392.47, which represents an implementation of 86.73 % of the budget initially approved, bringing the uncommitted balance to EUR 11,180.097.53, which in turn represents 13.27 % of the budget. Of the total appropriations committed in the financial year 2015, EUR 68,086,623.95 were paid during the same obligations, the remainder remaining outstanding as a result of the corresponding settlement agreements. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 110,684.10 remains to be paid uncommitted files at the end of the 2015 financial year but, in turn, attributable to it. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen, once the liquidation has been approved, the final implementation of the budget will amount to EUR 73,174,076,57, representing 86,86 % of it, and the uncommitted balance will in turn amount to EUR 11,069,413,43, representing 13.14 of the budget. On the other hand, during the financial year 2015, several credit transfers have been requested, approved by the Bureau of the Chamber... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u106	Thank you, President. As I said, several credit transfers, approved by the Bureau of the House at its meetings on 8 September and 5 October 2015, have been requested during the financial year 2015 for a total of EUR 829,000. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, during the 2015 financial year, the Congress of Deputies received 102,237.54 euros in terms of extrabudgetary revenue, and 81,076.81 euros in terms of interest generated by the accounts opened in his name. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u107	Thank you very much. The parliamentary groups may then intervene, if they so request, in a single five-minute shift, from minor to greater, in order to establish a position on the report submitted. Firstly, Mr Azpiazu Uriarte had asked for the floor. [[Pause]] The following is the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u108	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief, don't worry. First of all, a memory for the eighty-one-year-old lady who died this Monday because she had to choose, like so many others, between eating or paying for the light. A memory for them. We are not anti-system, but the system is anti-us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u109	Mr Rufián, I am calling to the point, because we are dealing, as you know, with the report on the implementation of the House's budget.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u110	I'm sorry, President. Today we present a report on the implementation of the budgetary expenditure of this house, the Congress of Deputies, some 84 million public euros - I repeat, 84 million public euros -, of which they have been spent for a whole year 73 - I repeat, 73 -, and although we appreciate the Bureau's efforts to expand the information, it seems to us many millions of euros as to dispatch them in a report of just fifteen pages, delivered before yesterday. Call us radical, but we would like to know a little how these 73 million public euros have been spent, for example. It would also be good to know how much the official celebration of Constitution Day cost. It would also be good to know how much the official opening of the legislature, which will be held tomorrow with the presence of its kings, will cost. It would also be good to know exactly how much they are spent on official cars, or on meals, or on invitations, or - and I read it literally - on representation expenses and institutional gifts, as if this were the Trump Tower. But there are also certainties in this report that are even more worrying. Call us radicals, but is it necessary for the Parliamentary Channel to be broadcast by satellite? I'm saying this because it's worth a million euros. Is it necessary so much official travel in the Commissions? I'm saying this because it's worth another million and a half euros. Is it necessary to spend 75,000 euros on buying press, or 45,000 on transcripts and coffees, or 35,000 on institutional gifts, and I read again textually? All this is something that transcends any ideology; it is pure common sense, pure decency and legality, its legality, in accordance with the Law of Transparency, especially from the moment when it comes to money that comes out of the back of so many people. And it's not our thing; it's not a thing of radicals, but it's a thing of the millions of people, who surely see us now as ojiplots as they think what they will choose this month, food or light. And since this is not voted on, the parliamentary group I have the honour to speak for wanted to express its discontent. Good afternoon and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u111	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. We were not here in 2015, but we are surprised by the lightness and lack of rigour with which this House's budget implementation report is concerned, as if it were a mere administrative procedure, when it really is about the allocation of resources that allows the Legislative Power to be a counterweight of the Executive Power and that allows the ability to exercise that power to the seat of popular sovereignty, which should be this. It does not seem logical to us that in a report of just twelve pages, counting the cover itself, we try to dispatch this annual report of budgetary execution of the Congress. This is a report that in any company would seem a joke; a report that does not include any kind of execution memory; a report that does not include only details in the breakdown of expenses. It is not appropriate to include information if there are previously no indicators explaining why these items are used. It is said that there is 86% execution. All right. Is that a lot? Is that a little bit? We do not know that, because we do not know what objectives were intended to be met by this budget implementation. Has the speed and diligence of administrative procedures been improved? We don't know, because there are no indicators to measure it. Do House workers have better working conditions and perform better than in the previous legislature or the previous year? We don't know; well, I'm sorry, we do know this because we've been told, and we don't. They have no better conditions, neither their workers nor those of their contractors. Have documentary or economic information services been improved? We don't know either, because there are no indicators to control it. In short, we need an adequate breakdown of budgets. And we don't just need it; it's also needed by citizens, who are out there supervising what we do and who, in the end, are paying. And whoever pays, he should send it. This is where the citizens are sent, and that is why we demand that they publish reports with a greater degree of execution, with a greater breakdown. Let's open the doors and windows to the citizens who are out there. Don't be afraid of him. I understand that some of the Members who have been here all their lives may be afraid of the light, but the light does not hurt; the light is a source of life, and that is why we have to open the doors and windows for that information to come out of here and for citizenship, which in the end is the sovereign, to audit and monitor what we do. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u113	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Heredia Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, tell my friend José Andrés Torres Mora that while going to the airport the taxi radio was talking about how the cost of the political caste was doubling the bad backs of the country's economy. Torres Mora asked the taxi driver: Do you know what the Congress budget is? To which the taxi driver replied: No, but I'm sure it's a lot. According to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, Spain is one of the least spent countries in its Parliament in relative terms of its population and wealth. Including the two Chambers, France spends 13 euros per inhabitant per year; Germany spends 8 euros per inhabitant per year; in Spain 3 euros are spent. We are talking about an amount that represents for Congress and Senate 0.07% of the State's General Budgets - in the specific case of Congress we are talking about 0.04 - and to some it seems excessive. By the way, Mr. Rufián, are you going to give up the official car you're going to Atocha Station with? [[Rumors.-Applause.-Several Members make negative gestures.]] I ask him because he preaches a lot, but he gives little example. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u115	One second, Mr. Heredia. Keep quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u116	In any case, much or little, public money must be spent with honesty, efficiency and transparency, and today we are publicly aware of that expenditure. It would be good if not only all public administrations were as transparent as Congress, but also all those organizations and entities that are financed from public resources. For example, all constitutional bodies; for example, political parties; for example, trade union and business organizations; and also, for example, the Catholic Church as long as the agreements signed with the Vatican remain in force. In our parliamentary group we are in favour of transparency, but for all. I know that in this Chamber there are supporters of armored trains, but only if they are their trains. Here there are those who find very little transparency in Spain, but outside our country they justify and support completely opaque regimes, where the word transparency does not exist. I am sure there is much to improve, but it is also certain that our accounts reflect the reality of an austere and transparent Parliament, which carefully spends the money on everyone's taxes. Therefore, the first positive assessment that we want to make clear in this procedure is the preparation of the report itself, which serves to make all the members of this House aware of what has been spent and how the budgets of the Courts have been spent, but immediately afterwards we must also positively appreciate that this report serves to make known these extremes to all citizens, to those who suffer as taxpayers, to a greater or lesser extent, this cost. Taxpayers should rely on institutions, which would make good use of those resources, which would be returned to them with proportionate services. That is the fundamental purpose of this report: the exercise of accountability to the citizens we represent. We insist, in any case, that the transparency and accountability of parliamentarians in this and other areas must be increased. Progress has been made, and this procedure is proof of that, but much more progress needs to be made. And we regret that the parliamentary majority missed the opportunity to reform the Rules of Procedure in the 10th Legislature to move forward in this direction. If there is an institution that justifies transparency and accountability, it is this, as an organ representing popular sovereignty. That is why we are convinced that this parliamentary term will increase the transparency of the House, in line with an increase in transparency in all public authorities. This will strengthen the credibility of the institutions and also of democracy itself. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u117	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Today, in accordance with Rule 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, we are debating the report on the completion of the Congress of Deputies' budget for the financial year 2015. Today's debate on the budget implementation of this House is closed throughout the 10th Legislature, which is already a positive thing in itself, since this had not happened in the previous nine Legislatures. And my group believes that we can reasonably be satisfied with the exercise of transparency that was carried out in that legislature, not only for making these debates public, but also because the Transparency Portal of Congress and the Budget Office of the General Courts were put into operation. This set of instruments represents a clear commitment to transparency and control of public accounts within this high institution and is in line with citizens' demand: more information and more control over the expenditure and revenue of all State institutions. An exercise of transparency that deserves recognition to the Congressional Bureau that presided over Jesus Posada from 2011 to 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware today of the implementation of a budget, and the fact that almost 87% of the forecasts contained therein have been met is a satisfactory degree of compliance, even more so if we take into account that the Chambers were dissolved in October by the convening of the elections last 20 December. It can be concluded in good logic that the budget of the Congress of Deputies has been properly implemented. It is not coherent - and I speak with the spokesman of Podemos - to say now that we come here to discuss the allocation of public resources. That is done in the debate on the General Budgets of the State. I have provided you with the information that in the last parliamentary term there was neither a single amendment to Section II in the State General Budgets nor a single amendment. And if you didn't do it at that time - you already know that no, because you weren't here, but yes the rest of the groups -, which was when it was, it doesn't seem appropriate for you to come and do it now. Ladies and gentlemen, my group believes that what is really important is to have institutions that work well, as well as possible, at the level of our citizens, and that we Members can do good legislative and control work for the government, and for that we must have the necessary means, as is the case. In any case, I would like to highlight two important points. First of all, this House, the Congress of Deputies, is the least expensive legislative chamber in our environment. I am not going to give the figures, because the Socialist Party spokesman has already given them, but if we compare our budgets with those of the Legislative Chambers of France, Italy, Germany or the United Kingdom, we will see how much more efficient we are here in Spain. If the comparison is made with the legislative chambers of the various autonomous communities of our country, it is noted that the cost per Member is, in most cases, significantly lower in this House. For example, in the case of the Catalan Parliament, the cost per Member is approximately 87 % higher than the cost per Member in this House. Mr Rufián, you said that the report that you received from fifteen pages seems insufficient. I have here the report on the transparency website of the Catalan Parliament and it is only six pages. [[Show a document]] [[Applauds]] And I would also like to encourage you to enter the Transparency Portal of the General Courts, because you will find more than thirty pages referring to the budget of the Courts and with a degree of breakdown that far exceeds that of the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Show another document]] I therefore encourage him to abandon his laziness and, above all, to put himself to work and to use the tools available to him as a Member of these Courts. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I would like to point out that year after year in the X Legislature the costs have been reduced, without undermining the means available and without the quality of our work having diminished, which has resulted in significant savings, above the 11 million euros, in the year 2015, which together with other previous ones reach a total of 84 million euros in treasury remnants. If we compare the past exercise with other distant ones in time, we will check how this House cost the Spanish in 2015 25 million euros less than in 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2015 financial year and in the 10th Legislature as a whole, we are carrying out our parliamentary activity with absolute dignity. We carried out an intense and I believe that good parliamentary activity, at least of the same quality as in the aforementioned countries or autonomous communities, and we did so at a lower cost to the citizen, which is objectively to be satisfied. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.- Mr Rufián Romero asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u119	Mr. Rufian?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u120	Madam President, for allusions, I wanted to answer Mr. Heredia, the spokesman for the PP, sorry about the PSOE...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u121	Your Honor, in the allusion round you have to mention the article and the allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u122	It is the falsehood that the spokesman of the Socialist Group has commented that Esquerra Republicana has an official car, when Esquerra Republicana almost for more time than he has been in this House resigned from that car, and he also wanted to ask that he withdraw from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u123	Mr. Heredia, you have the floor to respond to allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u124	Madam President, I have a video where Mr Rufián and four other Members get off an official car. I'll give it to you if you want, and I'll tell you. [[Applause.- Rumours.- Several honourable Members make negative gestures.- Mr Rufián Romero asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall have to call some of your ladies and gentlemen to order. [[Rumors continue.- Mr. Rufián Romero remains standing in his seat]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Mr. Rufián, please sit down; if not, I will call you to order. Mr. Heredia, the question I ask you is, do you withdraw or do you not withdraw the allusion?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u126	Obviously not, but I can show you the video, Madam President. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u127	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Before voting, I ask the first secretary to read the institutional declaration in support of the construction of the Thirty-Metro Telescope and the installation of this project in the Canary Islands.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 30 October 2016, the international consortium that manages the construction of the Thirty-Metro Telescope issued a press release confirming that it had a number of alternatives for the implementation of the project, given the difficulties that its original location in the sacred mountain of Mauna Kea, Hawaii, United States, was posing because of the local opposition. Specifically, the project management expressed that its first alternative to Mauna Kea would be the Roque de Los Muchachos, on the Canary Island of La Palma, province of Santa Cruz de Tenerife and with second seat in the observatory of the island of Tenerife. The project for the construction of the Telescope of Thirty Metros represents a huge economic and scientific contribution, not only for the local activity of La Palma, Tenerife and the Canary Islands but also for the whole of Spain. The TMT's own management suggested that the telescope's budget would be around EUR 1.3 billion, of which 20% or 30% would be spent on destination, generating about 300 temporary jobs and about 140 fixed jobs. To this must be added an avant-garde scientific production that would place Spain at the head of the world in astronomical research. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies expresses its support for the installation of the project on the island of La Palma and Tenerife and requests all public administrations, with particular mention to the municipal and island governments of La Palma and Tenerife, the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands and Spain, to cooperate to take the necessary measures to promote such an objective, which will not only be an international scientific exponent that will strengthen Spain, but will come at the hands of the generation of jobs. What is published in accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u130	Thank you very much. We shall proceed to the votes. [[The ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and some of the Joint Parliamentary Group show posters with the following phrase: Freedom, Andrés Bódalo]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remove the posters. [[The ladies and gentlemen continue to show the posters]] Ladies and gentlemen, please withdraw the posters because the order of the plenary is being altered. [[The ladies and gentlemen of the House withdraw the posters.-Rumores.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u131	We vote, first, on the proposal for a law of the Courts of Aragon amending the Civil Code in relation to personal status and civil neighbourhood. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 289 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u132	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u133	We turn to the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the suspension of the timetable for the implementation of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, for the improvement of educational quality. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 208 against, 133 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u134	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u135	We proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals: the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on improving and updating the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence and the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on promoting a social, political and institutional pact that regains the spirit of consensus of the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence, linking all political parties, State powers and civil society in a firm commitment to a sustained policy for the eradication of gender-based violence. Having tabled an amendment identical to the two non-legislative proposals, signed by the People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress, Socialist, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens and Mixed, we proceeded to the vote of the two initiatives in a single act with the common text presented and known by the Members. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us put to the vote the amendment tabled to the two non-legislative proposals. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes; 344 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-11-15-CD161115.u136	The non-legislative proposal was approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was eight and twenty minutes of the night.
