ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u1	The meeting was resumed. We now turn to the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, when you passed in solitary the reform of the Law on Citizen Security said it was an essential, necessary and timely rule to improve the effectiveness of public policy on citizen security. In view of how the law is being applied, and of the majority mandate of this House for its repeal, what do you have, Mr Rajoy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u4	I am and will be absolutely respectful of all the decisions that this House takes in the exercise of its powers, and I also hope that we will all be respectful of those that the Government takes in the exercise of those powers. That is the principle of the separation of powers, which you know very well and with which I have no doubt whatsoever that you fully agree. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u5	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u6	Mr. Rajoy, let's see if it works accordingly, because I'm going to give you some examples of how the law is being applied: in six months, more than 6,000 procedures for disrespecting the police; complaints about wearing a backpack or a T-shirt with the acronym ACAB; a fine of 800 euros for taking a photo of a police car; sanctions for a journalist hanging a video of a detention on the network; sanctions for a journalist asking a question at the exit of the National Court by jumping a police cord; permanent identification of informants attending police proceedings. And so, a sum and follow. It must be recognized that this law, Mr Rajoy, did not come imposed by the markets, this law did not dictate it in Brussels; this law you made it yourself because you wanted to, Mr Rajoy. They made it full of an enormous ideology, a repressive ideology that tried to condition the right of assembly, demonstration, freedom of expression and freedom of information, and which, in addition, creates enormous legal uncertainty because it makes those conducts that are likely to be punished at a later stage very ill. In short, this is a law made by your Government, Mr Rajoy - let us not be fooled - to condition the right of citizens to protest against the laws, rules and policies of your Government. We said that when the majorities changed we would repeal the law, like all those laws that you passed in solitary, as we started yesterday with labor reform. That's what we're gonna do. We have tabled this bill to repeal the law gag if you do not comply with the majority mandate of this House. Therefore, the deadline is clear, it has from here until we begin to process this law. So, Mr. Rajoy, don't waste your time, because if you don't take the gag off, we take it off. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Hernando, you will know what you should do, but I believe that repealing all the rules that have been adopted during a legislature, many of which have produced very important positive effects for all Spaniards, is not the best way to build or make a contribution to the general interest of all. In any case, you can make the decisions you deem appropriate and appropriate, and the rest of this House can do so too. I'm going to tell you one thing with absolute frankness. To say today that in Spain there is a problem of the absence of rights or of the enjoyment of freedoms is something that absolutely nobody is believed; and to say, as we have just heard here, that we have a problem in Spain of freedom of expression seems a joke; just as it seems a joke to tell the Spaniards that here we have a problem of freedom to exercise the right of demonstration. Mr Hernando, I, as happens to you, speak to many people and I am in contact with many people and, for example, they talk to me about unemployment, which is undoubtedly a real problem even if it is gradually being corrected; they talk to me about the economic situation of our country, where we still have to do many things in the future; they talk to me about many real problems of the people; but I have to tell you that not one person, since the adoption of the Law on Citizen Security, has told me a single word of this matter. [[Rumors]] I have only heard of this matter in this House. No one has told me anything about it and therefore you can do what you think is appropriate and convenient. Yes, one thing to tell you: the complaints for demonstrations, which were always for riots or demonstrations convened without asking for the permissions required by law, are 0.02 of the complaints that have been made; and the vast majority of the complaints that have been made under this law relate to drug offences and crimes of possession of weapons and explosives. Frankly, Mr Hernando, I do not know if you have read the law, but I have the impression that you are overacting and moving away from moderation, which is where the common sense and interest of all is. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u9	Thank you very much. - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK THE AID MUST HAVE CAPACITY TO ADVISORY FREELY TO THE JOINT OF HIS CITIZENS ON QUESTIONS AFFECTING THEIR OWN ASPECTS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000049]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u10	Question also addressed to the President of the Government by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u11	Good morning, Mr. President. Do you think that municipalities should have the capacity to consult freely with all their citizens on matters that affect their own sphere?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u12	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u13	I suspect where you can go. I am in favour of the municipalities being able to consult citizens on matters that affect their own sphere, but I am also in favour of minimum control of legality and, therefore, of government authorization, which is what the current legislation says - as you very well know -. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u15	Well, let's focus on it. Look, Mr President, since the transition there was a very great fear of direct democracy, starting with the Constitution, but the restrictions have already begun with the Organic Law on the various forms of referendum, which does not regulate municipal consultations but requires the authorization of the Government to convene them. Then there was a twist with the Law Regulating Local Regimes, which is more restrictive than that in the previous regime, article 71 already speaks of own competences, exclusion of the matter from the farm and the authorization of the Government again. But, lately, with the jurisprudence - judgement 31/2015, of the Constitutional Court, following the Catalan law of popular consultations - a distinction is made between general consultation and sectoral consultation, and this is an appeal to a subject more restricted than the electoral body of the territorial collectivity concerned. Therefore, if a municipality wants to consult with all its neighbours on public policies, decisions or matters relating to the competence of the municipalities, it always needs a permit from the Government of Spain, which it will or will not grant free of charge. We are talking about not referendums of independence or sovereignty, we are talking about asking about municipal affairs, for example, urban planning - something that has been refused to a municipality in Vizcay not long ago - and never binding. At the moment it seems that you intend to resort to the Basque municipal law, when I believe that these matters should be given a way out. Here is a problem with very strict and preventive legislation from the start. We have moved on to a more restrictive state development legislation, and a twist has been made with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court that is incomprehensible, timid, limiting the autonomy of the management of the municipal interests themselves, which is enshrined even in articles 137 et seq. of the Constitution. I think it is time for the municipalities to stop being minors, to rid them of guardianships that are exceeded in their zeal. Amend, Mr President, the legislation if necessary to undo the misappropriation of the Constitutional Court and to update municipal consultations according to European standards. That all its neighbours can be asked freely about issues that affect their own sphere. What's wrong with this? What does it have to do with a central government authorization, which can then be granted or not? Mr President, the Swiss are not crazy, the Europeans are not crazy; I think we should adapt to their standards.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I am not going to give you my opinion here on the referendums or the consultations, because I think it does not do the case. What I am going to say is that I do agree with what you said about the Organic Law of 1980. Municipal consultations are excluded there. The Local Grounds of Regime Act provides for consultation regulations. He said that they needed authorization from the Government of Spain; the issues should be of municipal competence; they were particularly relevant to the interests of the neighbours, and could not refer to the local Treasury. I understand that you do not agree with the government's authorization, and I also say that that is reasonable, but I would like to say one thing. The Government here does not have the capacity to make discretionary decisions. We are faced with a purely regulated act. Here we do not talk about reasons, therefore, of opportunity. It is a control of legality that seems very reasonable. For example, if there is a city council that wants to consult with the neighbours about the membership of that city council in NATO, it seems logical that the government does not authorize it because it is not part of its competence. But if this is a purely municipal problem, the government has always authorized it and you know it because in recent years... [[Mr. Esteban Bravo makes negative gestures]] Some do and others don't. But in matters of municipal policy he has always authorized them. Specifically, in the Basque Country, six have been accepted since 2010 and five others have not been accepted because they were not the competence of the municipalities, such as fracking issues. Therefore, I insist, this is an act in which the Government has no decision-making capacity beyond a capacity to control legality, which seems quite reasonable, because it is good that the institutions adjust our behaviour to the law. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ISSIDERO MANUEL MARTINEZ OBLANCA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE PRIORITIES OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT TAKE ON THE COMPLETION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL TERMS OF GUARANTEE FOR SOLIDARITY AND EQUALITY BETWEEN SPAIN AND TERRITORIES, VINCULATED TO A NEW SYSTEM OF AUTONOMIC FINANCING AND EQUAL AND EFFECTIVE ASSIGNMENT OF STATE INVESTMENTS? [[File number 180/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u18	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u19	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, I am extremely interested in knowing the importance of your commitment to the implementation of the first point of the programme for Asturias of the electoral coalition People's Party-Forum, so I ask you in relation to a new system of autonomous financing that responds to constitutional mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u21	Thank you very much. As you well know, solidarity and equality are constitutional principles that inspire our legal system. They are two basic pillars in our coexistence and, therefore, the priority and, in addition, the obligation of the Government I chair and of anyone else is to guarantee these principles in the new system of autonomous financing and in the investments of the State, to which I also refer. These are two areas of government action, but in principle this should be an inspiration for all government action. At the Conference of Presidents of Autonomous Communities which will take place on 17 January, we will begin work to adopt a new model of autonomous financing which must undoubtedly be inspired by the principles of solidarity and equality. It is also our intention to present a draft General State Budgets for the coming year, in the first quarter of that year, where when distributing investments among the various territories, we will also have to comply with those principles for which you are interested. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u23	Mr Rajoy, the current system of autonomous financing was approved in 2009 by the then socialist government of Rodríguez Zapatero, in line with the requirements of the Catalan tripartite. [[Rumors]] It is a perverse, unjust, anti-social system, which should have already been corrected in its first mandate, but which worsened by adding discretionary measures of cancellation of interests through which EUR 22,647 million were distributed, 75% of which, according to official data from the Ministry of Finance, went to Catalonia, the Valencian Community and Andalusia, precisely the most non-compliant communities, which in terms of euros per inhabitant establish differences between one to three autonomous communities, with the consequent negative effect on economic growth and employment, which in the case of Asturias also affects the accumulation of a historical debt of insolidity of the State. Mr President, the allocation of public investment with criteria of efficiency and interterritorial balance is also a great instrument for achieving the homogeneous convergence of growth in Spain and is the decisive tool for articulating the cohesion of the national territory following the European model. Spain needs a greater effort of constitutional solidarity and equality. We are required to do so knowing, as you well know, that the Asturians do not want to be more than anyone, but not less than the others, bearing the consequences of a discriminatory funding system, suffering the worst growth data reported by the National Institute of Statistics and occupying the red light in the labour force rate year after year. Mr Rajoy, it is urgent to put an end to the drift that you yourself rightly predicted seven years ago, but for which the Government has not yet applied a remedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. On the funding model, as you have said, we all know that the current one has shortcomings and, therefore, we also know that they must be corrected. The objective we are going to pursue is to ensure a level of services in all territories by defining a common portfolio in the key areas and, secondly, to ensure stable and sufficient funding. It is a question of all Spaniards being able to access public services on equal terms, living where they live. The debate will begin after the meeting on 17 January, to which I referred earlier. You know that it is an issue of enormous difficulty - you know it -; whenever there has been a debate on this matter things were not easy, but, finally, to resolve things that are not easy we are all here in this House and I am absolutely convinced that we will reach an understanding among all. The same applies to investments. When we present the budgets we will try to seek an equitable distribution, to promote actions that will benefit the general interest and, of course, we will emphasize policies that will improve our economy, expand our productive fabric, generate employment and, therefore, revert to wealth and well-being for people. There's an important issue that we're going to put in place soon, which is the attempt to reach a national pact to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u26	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF MANUAL Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM MAY IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: IS YOUR PARTIDIARY GOVERNMENT TO ENCOURAGE A REFORM OF THE SPANISH CONSTITUTION SUBMITTED TO THE THE REFERENDUM? [[File number 180/000057]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u27	Question addressed to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations, by Mr Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrión.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, it is said that your Government wants to push for changes in the Constitution. I ask him whether his Government would be pleased if those changes were submitted to the referendum of the Spanish people.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u29	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Some may not celebrate the Constitution, but it is good for everyone to know it. If Podemos's theses succeed, which is to open a constituent process, not a referendum, that we would have to dissolve these Courts, call general elections, set up the Chambers, approve the reform of the Constitution and the new government invested in convening a referendum, which would be required. And if your thesis does not succeed, you have already said that your thirty-five Members will call for a referendum. For the government it is a proper act, forced if Members want it, but I will tell you what we are in favour of. It would be a mistake for a majority to impose reform on a minority or for that minority to demand a referendum by the sole force of its seats. The Constitution was of all and the reform, if it is done, should be of all, without excluding anyone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u32	Madam Vice-President, listening to you gives the impression that democracy seems to you to be a hindrance. Don't be afraid of democracy. [[Rumors]] In any case, I have not talked about opening a constituent process, which would certainly be a good thing, but I have asked you what your Government thinks of submitting a constitutional reform to a referendum. I know that we have enough parliamentary strength to secure that referendum and I assure you that if you want to change the Constitution without asking the Spanish, we will ensure that the Spanish citizens are asked, but I wanted to convince them; since we are in a Parliament we have to agree not only with the changes but with a basic democratic principle, that if we are going to touch the Constitution we will recognize that this House does not represent the constituent power and that it is right to make a reform, so I would like to count on its consensus and not have to impose it with the votes that the citizens have given us. In Spain there was a remarkable scandal when you and the Socialist Party, with summer night, imposed the reform of article 135 of the Constitution, which, among other things, kneeled the sovereignty of our homeland to external powers. If you want to do something like that again, I assure you that will be decided by all the Spanish and all the Spanish in referendum. Let me make you some suggestions. In Spain, changes in the Constitution are needed. Yesterday my partner, Yolanda Díaz, said that you are turning a basic constitutional principle into wet paper and that Spain is a social state. Social rights must be safeguarded in the Constitution. The Constitution must be changed in order to protect citizens from corruption, by banning rotating doors at once. The independence of the judiciary must be ensured, the electoral system must be changed and our Constitution must also recognize plurinationality. These constitutional changes do not stem from our agenda, but are a social cry in this country. Do not use the Constitution to entangle yourself, do not turn it into a barricade of the immovilists; help widen the Constitution to more people. These changes are necessary, among other things, to protect your citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u33	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u34	These citizens must feel much more protected with us than with you because you vote a lot more, Mr. Churches, you vote a lot more. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mr Iglesias, the lessons of democracy if you want to be given to the 300 of Vistalegre, that these 137 deputies of the People's Party come with the lessons of democracy learned from home. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] And thirdly, Mr. Churches, if you want us to talk so much about the Constitution, why don't you go to the Constitutional Commission, of which you are a spokesman? The other day we had four hours of debate and sent Mr Domènech, who was interesting, but I believe that the debate on the Constitution of all Spaniards interests the spokesman of a national party and not just its Catalan tide. What I saw in that debate - if you had been - was a lot of discourse to differentiate yourself, especially yours, what you would call a signifier with so many meanings, and the reform of the Constitution is not that, Mr. Churches. The reform of the Constitution has to be a reform that serves everyone and I see them more in sowing discord in what was a constitution of concord than in really fixing the problems of this country. More solutions and fewer conflicts, Mr. Iglesias, although you move better in the second. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEPUTY ARTEMI RALLO LOMBARTE, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE GOVERNMENT Satisfied WITH THE RESULTS OF HIS MEASURES AGAINST CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/000059]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u35	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Artemi Rallo Lombarte from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u36	Minister, on 16 November Transparency International presented its report on corruption in Spain with a devastating figure: 80% of Spaniards, eight out of ten, consider the fight against corruption by this government to be insufficient. Minister, is the government satisfied with its action in the fight against corruption? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u37	Thank you very much. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u38	Thank you, President. Mr. Rallo, I don't have a satisfaction meter. I do not know that there are any such indicators, at least in the Government. You highlight an element of public opinion that must certainly be of concern to all, to the Government and to all who have some political responsibility. [[Rumors]] In any case, what I do believe can give us some satisfaction is what we have done. What we have done is adopt a set of anti-corruption measures that have positioned us better than we were before. Another element of satisfaction is that the State Security Forces and Bodies, prosecutors and judges work every day to fight corruption, which seems to me to be magnificent news. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u39	Mr. Rallo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u40	Minister, you are still eager for the chascarillo and the irony when this government should be sincerely ashamed and overwhelmed by this data. A month ago it was the report of Transparency International, but two months ago it was the Greek report of the Council of Europe, which described as disappointing and highly unsatisfactory the fight against corruption by this government, and every month it reminds us of the CIS. You presented yourself to the Committee on Justice a week ago and gave us two pearls worthy of passing on to the annals of misdemeanour. The first - I open quotes -: There is no country in the world that has done so much against corruption. And he stayed so comfortable. Obviously, that is why the Council of Europe and International Transparency have awarded the champions against corruption with the Oscar, with the Golden Palm. [[Rumors]] Second pearl, Minister. You in the Committee on Justice have come to say that this about corruption is not so much - I open quotes -: Of the 3,600,000 criminal cases in Spain in 2015, only 0.29% affected cases of corruption. Minister, 10,400 cases of corruption. How many do you think this government needs to take this problem seriously? And this is not the past, this is the present and this is the future, because in a few days they will have imputed the president of Murcia, because the irregular invoices at the Provincial Hospital of Castellón grow day by day - all of them denounced before the prosecution - and already reach 33 million euros. [[Rumors]] Minister, in the face of this situation you have to make the necessity virtue. They embrace the false faith of the convert, you in particular become a walking covenant and want to buy the complete package of anti-corruption measures. They lack credibility, Minister. They're missing more judges, more prosecutors, more police. Think of this credibility. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u41	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, please silence all Members. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I simply make clear what has happened and what has been done. The X Legislature has passed a set of laws that you will know, but they were not made. There was no Political Party Financing Act that required transparency and absolute accountability in the accounts of political parties. An Act on the Statute of the High Commissioner has been adopted. A Criminal Code had been adopted that punished corruption offences much more firmly. An Office of Asset Recovery and Management has been created to ensure that a corrupt person does not keep a single euro of the stolen property. All this has been done on the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group and on the initiative of President Rajoy's Government and, by the way, you have not voted in favour of any of these reforms. You will know why they did not take place in the previous legislatures and why you have not supported all these reforms. Therefore, we do not have the satisfaction of thinking that everything is done, because much remains to be done in this legislature. I hope, Your Honor, that you will support the measures proposed by the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group when they come to this House. We must continue to work to strengthen the independence of our judiciary. The whistleblowers of corruption must continue to be improved. We must continue to regulate the rotating doors between politics and justice. There is no doubt that further work needs to be done to improve our system for the prevention of corruption. Your Honor, I recommend that you value what we have, especially in comparison to what we did not have. Let us send citizens an image of trust in their institutions. Really, I don't think we should be here all day saying that there are some cases, because if we talk about cases, Your Honor, we can see where there is more economic volume defrauded or where there are more imputed; I don't think we can fix anything between your group and ours. Let us talk about what we have done, let us talk about what we have ahead, and above all let us convey confidence to the citizens. We will do democracy a good favor if we send the citizens an image...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u43	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SILVIA VALMAÑA OCHAITA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT DO ABOUT THE FUNCTIONING OF THE CENTRAL REGISTRATION OF SEXUAL INITIATIVES? [[File number 180/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u44	Question by Mrs Silvia Valmaña Ochaíta, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, also addressed to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, first of all, allow me to congratulate you, on behalf of my group, on the establishment of the Central Registry of Sexual Offenders and on the speed with which you have done so. They have implemented this normative development that gives form and legal coverage to a record that by its nature and effects is as important as complex in their organization, and have done so in record time, so congratulations. In just four months since the adoption of the Law on Amendment of the System for the Protection of Children and Adolescents in July 2015, and only one and a half months after the adoption of the Law on Volunteering, which required the existence of this register, on 11 December 2015 the Central Registry of Sexual Offenders was a reality and had its full effect only a few months later, on 1 March of this year. Only the diligence in making the provision for child protection that you have had would be praiseworthy, Minister, but it is also that the creation of this register guarantees the best protection for our children and daughters, preventing sexual offenders from having easy access to them in the spaces and activities in which they must feel safer. Spain is placed at the forefront of the defence of children, promotes international police cooperation against these crimes and complies with the Council of Europe's Lanzarote Convention, which Spain has ratified. This has also been understood by the prestigious journal Diario médico, which just a few days ago gave him a prize, the prize in the category of Ethics, Legal and Deontological Initiative, in the 15th edition of its annual awards, 'The best ideas of 2016'. For all this, Minister, I would like to ask you: what is the Government's assessment of the functioning of the Central Registry of Sexual Offenders? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u46	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the assessment we make from the government of the creation of the Central Registry of Sexual Offenders is positive, not for self-congratulation, but with data. Firstly, because of the social reception it has had, because of the impact on our society, and secondly, because we really believe that it has become a relevant instrument for the purpose it seeks, which is nothing other than to protect minors in terms of sexual exploitation and abuse. I believe that this is a very important and important social goal in our society against an absolutely unacceptable type of crime; all are, but these in particular. Therefore, the fact that we have instruments to ensure that we will make it more difficult to commit crimes against minors in our country is undoubtedly an important element or milestone in the changes we have adopted in recent times. It was a development of the Child Protection Act, it was a commitment that no one could work in relation to minors, both in the field of education and leisure time, sports or leisure without having accredited - today it may seem to us something elementary, but certainly there was no such requirement - that it has not been convicted for crimes of a sexual nature or against minors. The data are very strong. Since this register came into operation, 1,600,000 certifications have been issued, which is certainly a very important workload. Of these, there have been 479 positive certifications - which in quantitative terms already seems to me to be very important, and even more so in qualitative terms - which have prevented any of these people from starting working in this area. A single case of positive certification that would have prevented these people from working with minors would have already been enough, but almost 500 of them seems to me to be a magnificent fact that has to give us the satisfaction of having established it with this nature. I also know that the implementation of this system has not been free of difficulties, it is an administrative burden, and we have tried to do so telematically in this commitment to ensure that justice is ever closer to the citizen. It therefore seems to me that we have all complied: this House, which approved it; the Government, which has carried it out; the officials, who are active in this register every day. We are doing a magnificent service to ensure that minors are protected as intensively as possible. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u48	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO TAKE RESEARCH TO THE FISCALITY ON THE FISCAL FRAUD OF GREAT FORTUNAS AS IN THE CASE OF CHRISTIAN RONALD? [[File number 180/000048]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u49	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. First of all, a question from the Member of Parliament, Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Here the representative of the Catalan tide that won the elections in Catalonia, and that together with other tides will continue to advance, because the tides are unstoppable. Minister, the case of Football Leaks has uncovered a problem that is endemic in our system and in our country, and that is that while most of the tax burden falls on labor incomes, the great fortunes of this country systematically show cases of tax evasion. This seems to have happened in the case of Cristiano Ronaldo, who seems to have diverted 150 million euros, or also in other cases such as that of Amancio Ortega, sold many times as a great Spanish businessman, who seems to have defrauded 585 million euros. Faced with this endemic and repeated situation, the question is: Does the government intend to bring to the prosecution the investigation into the tax fraud of large fortunes as in the case of Cristiano Ronaldo? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u51	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Domènech, it is not for the Government to bring any case to the prosecution and this situation has never been presented. In my long experience as Minister of Finance it has never happened like this and it must never happen like this. It is up to the Tax Agency, its departments and its professionals to identify when there are signs of crime in a tax fraud and therefore to send them to the prosecution. I understand that your honor will agree with that procedure, which is otherwise the ordinary procedure in any country that is called the rule of law. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u54	It is up to the Government to take action against what is a systematic tax fraud that loses around 88 billion dollars a year in revenue to the State Treasury. That means that most Spanish citizens have to pay or overpay between 800 and 1,000 euros in taxes in order to be able to deal with this tax fraud. In fact, 72% of this tax fraud is in the big fortunes, 34 of the 35 companies in IBEX have companies in tax havens. This means that at present most tax fraud is on the big fortunes while the Tax Agency devotes 80% of its resources to pursuing small tax fraud. While your Government implements measures such as the Montoro amnesty, agreed with Convergence i Unió, which means whitewashing that tax fraud; while you make policies that seem ideal for the fraud of the great fortunes, all you do is pursue the small tax fraud. In view of this, we wanted to know what policies this government can do that are not always political in the service of IBEX 35. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u55	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Domènech, the lack of originality in your question really makes it a common argument, and it is so repetitive and in that sense so topical - if I may say so - that it seems profoundly unfair to me... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u58	He said that it seems to me profoundly unfair to transfer to the Spaniards what is not reality. In Spain, tax fraud is pursued, people are pursued without identifying them as socially, sportingly, economically or politically. That has been the case and is guaranteed by the professionalism of the Tax Agency and also by the measures that have been adopted in this House. I will remind you that precisely the economic spokesman of Podemos, as I also said the other day in an inquiry, what was celebrated was the action of the fight against tax fraud that the People's Party government has carried out - that is to say - and I will locate that interview and the holder of it so that they will see that there has never been a time like the one that has developed in recent years, in terms of effectiveness and political commitment in the fight against tax fraud. We will therefore continue to improve. Who says we've reached any goal? But do not repeat topics, but at least identify the progress and from there we will all progress together in this fundamental matter to ensure tax equity and the principle of our Constitution, according to which citizens must contribute to the Public Treasury according to our economic capacity. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u59	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MIGUEL ANXO ELIAS FERNÁNDEZ BELLO, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT PROVISIONS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO REDUCE THE VAT TYPE OF 21 % APPLICABLE TO THE CULTURAL FRAMEWORK CAUSING THE CLOSURE OF MUCH CULTURAL INDUSTRIES WITH THE CONSIDERING LOSSER OF WORKERS? [[File number 180/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u60	He also asks the Minister of Finance and Public Service of the deputy Miguel Anxo Elías Fernández Bello, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u61	Thank you very much, President. Minister for Finance, Mr Montoro, what does the Government have to do to reduce the VAT rate of 21% applied to the cultural sector and which causes the closure of many cultural enterprises with the consequent loss of jobs?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u62	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honour, I would like to clarify two terms which are put forward in your question, if I may, Mr Fernández. What has destroyed part of our cultural industry is the crisis, the economic recession, just as it has happened in hospitality, in construction, in trade, in industry or in agriculture. Or has there been no economic recession in Spain for five years? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u65	And I would also like to add that the cultural industry, which is important and which we must preserve among all, does not have a single VAT. Depending on the activity being carried out, reduced or super-reduced rates are applied, as in the case of book editions; in the case of works deliveries of artists, a reduced rate is applied, and in the case of final sales, a general rate is applied. So that so-called cultural VAT, frankly, does not exist. Thank you, Madam President. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u66	Quiet, please. Mr. Fernández Bello.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u67	Mr Montoro, you know perfectly well that culture - I gather the thought of García Márquez - is the social exploitation of creation and knowledge, but culture as a whole is also a powerful economic motor and a democratic right of citizens. Since Mariano Rajoy's government - and you yourself - pushed an increase in VAT from 8 to 21 % in cultural services - shows, cinema, music, theatre - more than 4,500 cultural enterprises have been closed, more than 100,000 jobs have been lost and the consumption of cultural products in general has fallen by more than 28 %. In the theatre, Minister, millions of spectators have been lost, Mr Montoro, almost two million only in the first six months of the application of the harmful cultural VAT, not to mention the closure for death of many theatrical companies. And what about the movies, Mr. Montoro? Minister for Finance, cinema has been another of the great victims of VAT. From that black 1 September 2012 until the beginning of 2015 270 cinemas closed in the Spanish state: in only two years 20 million fewer tickets sold. We would also have to talk about music, dance, the plastic arts. Mr Montoro, last October the Congressional Committee on Culture adopted a non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to urgently push for a reduction in VAT on cultural products and services. I urge you, Minister, to listen to the unanimous demand from the cultural sector, society in general, the cry of intelligence and the constructive political opposition, among which is our group, to reduce VAT in the field of culture. Lower it to less than 10%, as in Norway, Sweden, France or Germany. Do that favor to culture. Do not continue to use here, as you have done, the trick of nothing rhetoric, as a semiologist would say, to deny the existence of cultural VAT. I agree... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández Bello. Mr. Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u69	Thank you. No one denies anything, but we're going to be reasonable among all of you, please. If in the year 2012 the activity of the cultural industry falls, it is also doing so as I said before the trade, the industry... Or isn't it? Isn't that right, Mr. Fernández? Didn't that happen in 2012, when 700,000 jobs were destroyed in Spain? Everyone in the culture industry? No, no, There was an economic recession. That is what we know how to overcome, by the way, with the budgetary policies of the Government. That doesn't happen today. Today there are more and more people attending the shows, there are more and more people attending the cinema, and that is what we need to promote. Moreover, the commitment of this Government is, as we have committed to the political group of Citizens, to reduce in this legislature the VAT of live shows, with the participation of people, with direct presence. That is what we intend to do when we have a budgetary framework and we will do so throughout this parliamentary term. I invite you to constructively add your group to initiatives that make these policies compatible with the reduction of the public deficit in our country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u70	Thank you, Minister. - OF JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend TO TAKE ON THE INFORMATION RELATING TO FOOTBALL LEAKS AND THE POSITION DemonstratED BY THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION ON ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MATTERS? [[File number 180/000064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u71	Question also addressed to the Minister of Finance and Public Service, by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u72	Minister, with regard to the Football Leaks case, investigated and published by a consortium of European media, and trying to adjust to the known facts, it seems that there would have been - I am sure you are aware of it - a continued fraud with regard to the taxation of the image rights regulated by Article 91 of the IRPF Act, and I would like to ask you what action your Government intends to take with regard to the information that has appeared and on the basis of the concerned statements by the European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u73	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u74	Thank you, Madam President. We must fully agree with the statements of the European Commissioner in terms of expressing his concern. What we need to know and the Spanish society must know is that there is no type of economic activity, sport of any category or equipment, which is outside the ordinary control of the Tax Agency. Of that we must all have full security. That being said, we must recognise that in terms of monitoring international taxation it is a complex matter, that it cannot address a country alone - we must do so within the European Union - and that it must complement its initiative with tax measures such as those we have adopted in recent years and those I am sure that we will have the opportunity to develop with your political group, Citizens. Everything we know has a positive aspect in relation to creating social sensitivity in this regard. I will publicly confess that to me, as Minister of Finance, what I dislike most is when there is no such social rejection of public conduct, when those behaviours are already identified and even judged, and yet that social rejection still does not manifest itself. I believe that Spanish society must act decisively against cases of fraud, because really whoever defrauds the Treasury, as President Rajoy said, is robbing us all. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u75	Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u76	Minister, let me express my concern at the institutional response to this matter in Spain, which has for the time being been limited to the decision of a judge to ban the mere publication of all matters relating to the matter throughout Europe. I am more concerned that the prosecution has supported or agrees with this measure, which is not really understood very well not only here, but of course in other European partner countries of ours. Taxation on professional football had already been of privilege or was thus considered, for example, in German football, which expressed certain criticism of the way in which it was taxed in Spain for these concepts. Let us not forget that professional footballers are reference characters and that they have a great impact on the tax culture that can be developed in Spain, damaged already by some events and especially because with the crisis experienced, to which you have referred, the worst thing that could happen would be for the Spanish working middle class to draw the conclusion that they are the only ones who contribute to the era, and that anyone who can avoid it. In any case, Commissioner Moscovici has drawn up a real framework in which advisers, agents, intermediaries and so on would be involved. Please address this issue with the rigour and seriousness it deserves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u77	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also for your intervention, Mr Girauta, because what we really need to know - and also the whole of Spanish society - is that the control services of the Tax Agency act, regardless of such judicial decisions, always according to previous information, disseminated information; they always act and therefore complete their own actions. That is why you must all have peace of mind. But he cited football cases from other countries. I'll remind you that some president of some football club in these countries is even in prison in that...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTY DON FRANCESC XAVIER ERITJA CIURÓ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF SUCCESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT CONSIDER JUSTICE THE POINT OF VALUES THAT IT USES TO ASSIGN CATASTRAL VALUE TO INDISPENSIBLE RUSSICAL CONSTRUCTIONS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURAL, GANADERAS OR FORESTAL ACTIVITIES? [[File number 180/000044]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u80	Question by Mr Xavier Eritja Ciuro, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u81	Good morning, Minister. The General Directorate of the Catastro activated the cadastral regularization procedure for the period 2013-2017 with the aim of detecting new constructions and extensions not declared in the cadastral, both rustic and urban. Despite the deployment of this procedure, it is based on an erroneous and excessive assessment of some rustic constructions, and it is that Law 16/2012, which amends the consolidated text of the Law on Real Estate Disaster, states that until the presentation of values to the rustic is approved, the presentation that is determined in each municipality to obtain the value of the urban must be taken as in force. Obviously this procedure represents a real aggravation to the agricultural sector, which is already very much punished; costs to be borne by the owners of these agricultural constructions without having any connection either to the yield of the farms or to the reality of the real estate market. Now the owners see how, for example, for tax and property purposes, a irrigation raft is considered as a swimming pool and an abandoned farm or agricultural warehouse as an industrial ship. On the other hand, other aspects such as the impact of this increase in wealth on access to various grants and scholarships are also not taken into account. In that regard, we would like to know whether we share the same concern, Minister, and therefore ask you whether you consider the presentation of values used to assign the cadastral value of rustic constructions, indispensable for the development of agricultural activities, to be fair. I say this because, when in the previous parliamentary term our group tabled a motion calling for the elaboration of a specific paper on rustics, your group voted against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u82	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u83	Thank you, Madam President. The cadastral assessment of a construction must be carried out according to its own characteristics, not according to whether it is situated on rural or urban land. What is important is that the cadastral values assigned to the buildings are conveniently coordinated with those of the rest of the municipality, which gives guarantees that a fair valuation is made. Moreover, the law includes corrective mechanisms precisely to prevent the catastrophic valuations of rustic constructions from being excessive. This is the approach applied by the cadastre under obviously the current law. It should not be forgotten that in determining the cadastral value of a property from anywhere in Spain, factors such as the cost of the material execution of the constructions, the benefits of the contract, the professional fees and taxes that tax the construction, use, quality, seniority and other conditions of the building must be taken into account. All these factors determine their cadastral value, but not the type of soil on which they are based. We can consider that the assessment is fair if it does not discriminate against one neighbour against another, and that is what is guaranteed by law, since the assigned values must be conveniently coordinated with those of the rest of the municipality. In addition, it must be borne in mind that depreciation correction coefficients are applied for their location, constructive category, antiquity...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u84	One second, Mr. Montoro. Ladies and gentlemen, several of you complain that it is not well heard. Please, be quiet. I beg you all to remain silent. Go on, Mr. Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u85	Thank you. He explained that further consideration should be given to the application of depreciation correction coefficients due to their location, constructive category, age, conservation status, etc., which normally make the cadastral value of these constructions lower. In the case of agricultural constructions, a coefficient of 0.5 is applied so that the cadastral values do not exceed those of the market, which prevents such valuations from being excessive. In any case, if you wish to develop some kind of initiative in Parliament, we will certainly take it into account in the field of public finance administration. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Eritja Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u87	Our group would highly appreciate the Government's willingness to establish a specific securities submission for rustic properties or other proposals, such as taking into account the real value of the market to incorporate it as a new cadastral reference value. But we think those moments are late. The problem now is to determine what measures will be taken by 2017. Bearing in mind that any update of the cadastral coefficients passes through their approval in the General Budgets of the State, they are late. For this reason and in order to avoid major evils and new grievances, caused precisely by the current procedure, we ask that the Government suspend the current application of the cadastral valuation for this 2017.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u88	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I take advantage of your reply to insist on the importance of having General State Budgets for 2017. What's needed is for your political group to support the spending ceiling tomorrow to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Montoro. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ VICENT MARÍ BOSÓ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF PROCEEDINGS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING THAT THE TRIBUTARY MEASURES APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS IN FUNCTIONS ON 30 SEPTEMBER ARE GOING TO SUPPLEMENT AN INCREASE OF REVENUE SuffICIENTLY AS TO COMPLETE THE PUBLIC DEFICIT OBJECTIVE OF THIS 4,6 % YEAR? [[File number 180/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u91	Question by Mr José Vicente Marí Bosó, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it has been shown that in order to get out of the very severe crisis in our country, we had to face up to the serious imbalances in our economy and in the accounts of our public administrations, and do so in strict accordance with the path of fiscal consolidation, albeit adapted at every moment to the positive evolution of our economic activity. It has certainly been the effort of the Spanish society as a whole that has allowed us to grow again quickly and to lead job creation in the European Union. Accompanying that effort - and the People's Group wants to highlight this - has been the Government of the nation, making the precise structural reforms, taking multiple decisions and measures and weighing very well all the effects of those measures. Many of these measures have not been without complications, for sure, but they have all contributed decisively to restoring credibility and strength in our economy. Today the stage is different. That increased credibility allows us to lower the amount of financial expenditure to be paid in the budget year, and also the good pace of job creation allows us to lower the amounts to be paid for unemployment benefits in recent quarters. In this control of the correct execution of the budget year, of the correct evolution of revenues and budgetary expenditures, it is in that the Government has approved the Royal Decree-Law 2/2016 to anticipate the fractional payment of large enterprises, therefore asking for a greater effort to those who have greater economic capacity. Now that there has already been a split payment in October and in the coming days there will be a split payment of corporate tax in December, does the Government consider that the tax measures adopted in September will allow revenue to be increased in order to meet the public deficit target of this year of 4.6? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u93	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u94	Thank you. Mr President, I thank you for the intention and content of the question you put to the Government. In this respect, I say to you, first of all, that the evolution of the tax collection for this year, as was the case in the previous year, will promote an increase in tax revenues that is going to be close to €188 billion in liquidation, which is going to represent an increase over the previous year of slightly more than 3% -3.3 or 3.4-, and that it will be the second largest tax collection in the entire historical series; that is, we will not be as in 2007, where we reach €20 billion, but it will be the second. This has special significance considering that we have reduced personal income and corporate taxes during 2015 and 2016. With this, we are collecting more as a result of economic activity and the fiscal impulse, which has facilitated this economic growth, I insist, driven by the lowering of taxes in our country. That is why I am also using this shift to insist that the Government does not participate in the opinion of any international body that recommends taxing. Spain does not need to raise taxes - and less the value added tax - that engrave the general consumption of the Spaniards. So let's make it very clear, because we're already collecting. The figures, which I have had the honour of bringing to the House this morning, will make it possible to move towards this deficit target of 4.6% this year. On the other hand, I would like to tell you that, in fact, as we correct the deficit, we are ensuring the economic recovery, growth, job creation and reliability of Spain. What our Constitution welcomes - as I heard this morning - is not the dependence on foreign powers, it is the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Let us make ourselves clear and speak with precision, because it seems absolutely fundamental to me as to the basic content of what should be the political debates that are being heard in this House. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY URQUIZU SANCHO IGNACIO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHY HAVE THE CRITERIA FOR PROMOTING THE PERMANENT PROFESORATE IN UNIVERSITY BEEN AMENDED? [[File number 180/000060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u95	Questions to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Mr Ignacio Urquizu Sancho of the Socialist Parliamentary Group asks.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u96	Minister, can you tell us why your ministry, through the Aneca, has decided to change the eligibility criteria for the permanent university professor?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u97	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u98	Madam President, Mr Urquizu, good morning. One of the Government's major concerns in the field of university teaching has been to adapt its professional promotion to ensure a stable and sustainable system. That's why we've changed the criteria.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Urquizu.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u100	Look, Minister, what you have done in the Aneca has been to continue with that university policy that you have been developing in recent years, which basically consists of precarizing the figure of the university professor. You have set the bar so high that from now on there will be very few professors or professors, who are, let's say, the most stable and most remunerated figures. What they are going to do, because these classes have to continue teaching, is that much of that teaching is going to be given by the associate professor, visitor, assistant. That is, you, in addition to having been cutting back, have changed the ways to access the best university places through the Aneca to continue to precarious the university. They've really come up a lot, and I told you when you came to the Commission. We are very optimistic with the Spanish university. We believe that we must bet on excellence, but in order for our faculty to be excellent we must give you resources, and you are not going in that direction. We need to improve the situation of the university professor, we need to improve the situation of research groups... Look, Minister, the university has other problems. You don't have the problems you're raising here. He has problems with university fees; he has problems with university scholarships; he has problems with university autonomy, as we are knowing these weeks in the question of the plagiarism of the rector of the University of Rey Juan Carlos; he has problems with the absence of a statute of the professor worthy of such name. So, what we're saying is, they don't create any more problems than there are and solve those we already have in college. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u101	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u102	Mr Urquizu, I repeat your last words to tell you that the government wants to solve the university's problems. We have been working since the last legislature to ensure the professional advancement of permanent teachers at the university, aware of the need to update the accreditation framework. What have we done? What has Royal Decree 4151/2015 done? In the Year, what we have done has been to increase accreditation commissions from six to twenty-one. Why? Because with this system, Mr Urquizu, we have made it our own professors and professors who evaluate those who ask for accreditation. For example, you, Mr Urquizu, at the time, had to go through one of the six; now there will be twenty-one. In one of the six you would have been with jurists, economists and not just sociologists, which is your field of specialization, where you can be thanks to twenty-one. With regard to the criteria, Mr Urquizu, the ministry does not set them; they have been drawn up by the professors and university holders themselves. Yes, Mr. Urquizu, that's right. In addition, 70% of those 300 teachers who have produced them are those who were before. Therefore, what it is about is to seek excellence, as you have said, seeking the highest qualification. That's what moves us, that's all. And, look, as we want that to be so, I repeat what you have said - because I am interested in what you have said - and what I am going to propose to the Aneca is to set up a working group to study those accreditation criteria, to see what the CRUE says, what some union is saying to you, and let us come to consolidate some criteria that will serve us all. But looking for excellence, looking for quality is what we want, and also solving the university's problems. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u103	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SANTIAGO PÉREZ LÓPEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE RESULTS CONTAINED IN THE 2015 PISA REPORT ARE POSITIVE? [[File number 180/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u104	Question also addressed to the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Mr Santiago Pérez López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u105	Minister, last week we had the opportunity to hear the results of the PISA report. This is a valuable document that provides encouraging data about education in Spain. We are satisfied with the results obtained by the students of Madrid, Galicia or La Rioja, but especially positive are those of Castile and León, the land of our spokesman, Sandra Moneo, who I know is very proud of them as they are well above the OECD average. The report also contains areas of concern, such as the results of Andalusia. The Andalusian students are the last in science and penultimate in reading comprehension and mathematics; they are 20, 17 and 20 points, respectively, of the national average; and also 46, 43 and 40 points of the students of Castile and León in the aforementioned subjects. A whole world, Minister. How Andalusian hurts me, although I am not surprised by this situation. Andalusia remains anchored in the tail car of education, after thirty-four years of full competence. Andalusian students have achieved even worse results than in the PISA report of 2005. But don't worry, nobody's gonna take any responsibility. They'll always find something or someone to blame for the disaster. This economic and labour gap, with a galloping youth unemployment, is also joined by the educational gap that lasts Andalusia with respect to the other autonomous communities. The sad reality is that we are where we were: at the starting point. That is, in the queue in early educational dropout, in graduation rate, in teacher-student ratio, etc. Andalusian education is full of propaganda and self-congratulation and lacks quality, rigour and self-criticism to successfully address the problems it suffers. This is the reality of the Andalusian Arcadia, of which some say it is the educational laboratory for Spain. But, don't worry, in Andalusia we are neither the best nor able to give lessons to anyone, and less so in the PISA report, as these data corroborate. That is why, Minister, does the government consider the data contained in the PISA 2015 report to be positive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u106	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honour, the Government considers that the PISA report, and the data contained in it, are positive, so I had the opportunity to say it the same day it was published, and those positive reports also coincide with others: the Timss report, which I spoke of in this House, on the assessment of mathematics in primary school, or the dropout rate, to which you referred. We have dropped 7 points since 2011; it's good news. That means that the Spanish education system - and I want to stress it here - is a good system, and now that we have already started in this House the steps for the social and political state pact for education, I want to say that we have to take advantage of the good that is in the Spanish education system, which is a lot, and it is thanks to teachers and thanks to families. The PISA report should serve us to see what our weaknesses are and what our weaknesses are. I will quote two: I believe that we are improving considerably in terms of repeaters and, on the other hand, we do not have too many excellent students. But we are already in line with the OECD, we are in the European criteria, and that must give us the courage to move forward, I insist, from that national pact for education. The Spanish Minister of Education is not going to use the PISA report to say which autonomous communities are right or wrong; that is not my role. Conversely, the function of this evaluation system is to help those who need help. This is the objective we must pursue. Let me end by recalling something I read the other day from a public figure, tennis player Andre Agaassi, who has dedicated himself to creating a foundation focused on education issues. Agaassi said: the reason I have focused on education is because of my lack of education. The result of that deficit is that I have not been able to choose throughout my life. What I want, as Minister of Education, is for the Spaniards to be able to choose throughout their lives thanks to an improvement in the education system. That is why it is a good omen that all these reports point to Spain moving in the right direction so that this social and political pact for education in Spain, that state pact, is soon a reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u108	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: IS THE RECOVERY OF SOCIAL DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT'S OBJECTIVES? [[File number 180/000061]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u109	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. First of all, a question from Mr Eduardo Madina Muñoz of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, week of union mobilizations on the street against the policies of your government and supported by my party. Week - now that no one listens to us, especially because nothing is heard, Madam President - of union mobilizations basically against their labor reform, a labor reform that has modified a package of laws that essentially means the greatest violation of labour rights that is remembered in the whole of democracy; that has triggered youth unemployment; that has increased as never before the wage gap between men and women workers; that has brought more than 6 million people out of the framework of collective agreements and has sent more than 6 million workers below the interprofessional minimum wage. I wonder if, with that breakdown and the obviousness of that data, at least your Government intends to convene the social dialogue at once, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u111	Mr Madina, it has been saying that you are not listening and you have been listening perfectly. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Madina, this government respects the free demonstrations that citizens make on the street, because it is a constitutional right, and waits for the social partners at the dialogue tables to work together for employment, as it has always done in this and the previous legislature. But, Mr Madina, this is not the only government that has had general demonstrations or strikes for labour reforms. Look, what this government has had is greater parliamentary support for the 2012 labour reform, 197 votes in favour and four parliamentary groups, compared to what the Socialist Party obtained, for example, in the 2010 reform, which was 168 votes in favour. Like you, we try to work for employment and the difference between yours and ours is that yours removed the right to work for 3,300,000 people and ours has allowed many Spaniards to regain employment and opportunities. 1,600,000 Spaniards have regained employment and opportunities thanks to the efforts of Spanish society and the reform of the government of Mariano Rajoy. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u113	Mr. Madina.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Don't talk to me about Mr Rajoy meeting with the unions. Mr Rajoy believes that the social dialogue is to have a coffee with the trade unions to tell the trade unions everything they don't, so don't set it as an example. I would suggest that I should not set an example to the parliamentary majority of a law that no longer exists, because you were here yesterday, as we were all in this House. Yesterday there was the beginning of a process of: if you do not do so, we will do so, of repealing the framework of labor relations that you have installed with an absolute majority that is no longer present in this House. I know that melancholy by past absolute majorities floats in the atmosphere of your group and your Government, but that reality no longer exists. Now there is a different parliamentary reality that tells you that either you put yourself on or we will put you on, that you either repeal or we will repeal, that you change or we will change; we will do so, Minister. [[Applauds]] That is why I would tell you to let go of the thread of nostalgia with what has gone away, to give way to a political negotiation that will allow a new status of the workers to be born from it. The trade unions are asking for this, the majority of parliamentary groups are asking for it, the reality of the objective data in our labour market is asking for it. End the precariousness and expand unemployment coverage. It ends a holy time, if it can, with its policies, with the abuses of temporality that are taking place within our labour market. Retrieve the collective bargaining, which jumped through the air with its new law, which they passed with that absolute majority, and open again the door to the key to all this, which is the social dialogue, the relationship between employers and trade unions, with the coverage of the Government and this House... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u116	Thank you, Madam President. The Workers' Statute that Spain has today is the result of a large parliamentary majority and, therefore, of a great social consensus, Your Honor. This Workers' Statute, which was born with the last reform of 2012, is allowing the recovery in Spain to return with great intensity in job creation. Look, today in Spain 2,200 jobs are created every day; we are creating 500,000 jobs a year; and we have a lot to do. And you know why that was? For the efforts of the entire Spanish society, for the economic reforms of the Rajoy government and also for the collective bargaining agreements of 2012 and 2014 of the social partners. We therefore count on the social partners to continue to create intense employment. So the first thing the president has done is to call them on 24 November for three fundamental things: to consolidate recovery with the creation of jobs and quality jobs - that is why we are going to set up an integral table for quality in employment with them - to continue to strengthen pensions and so that no one is left behind in recovery, with new programmes and new policies for the long-term unemployed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u117	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA MERCÈ PEREA I CONILLAS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW LONG IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO FOLLOW THE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY RESERVATION FUND? [[File number 180/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u118	Question by María Mercè Perea i Conillas, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u119	Thank you, President. How long will the Government continue to implement provisions of the Social Security Reserve Fund?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u120	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the great social pact of this democracy is the Toledo Pact. This Government, before and now, complies with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. The second recommendation in paragraph 9 expressly states that the pension system requires reserves that mitigate the effects of economic cycles. Well, that's what we did. A reserve fund that was created in the times of Bonanza we have now used it for the Spaniards to have their pensions on time; pensions, by the way, which have risen since 2012 every year, albeit in a moderate way. And what are you going to do about it? When necessary, use the Reserve Fund normally to continue paying the pensions of the Spaniards. [[A Member of Parliament: Stay for an extra pay!]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perea i Conillas.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u123	Thank you. Madam Minister, one thing is to use the Reserve Fund to alleviate non-structural financing problems and another is to squander it. Not having taken action during these five years - you can see it in this graph perfectly - and not having earned income has ended up with the resources of the same. Minister, we've got one extra pay left. Five years, minister, five years and not a single action has been taken to heal the deficit or to rebalance revenue and expenditure. Never, minister, had we ever had an entire legislature in which year after year the deficit was increasing, and you, instead of seeking solutions, do like the Catalan saying: qui dia passe, any empeny. They have allowed the deficit to increase irresponsibly, despite supposed economic growth. By the way, 6 million poor workers. Minister, if anyone wanted to end the public pension system, they would do exactly what you have done during these five years: nothing. Certainly, they have not only not resolved the deficit, but have also been withdrawing money from the fund, so they have ended up withdrawing it from pensioners and blaming them for the failure of the system. You know that. Minister, this Socialist Group is asking you to do your homework and tell them what steps you are going to take to resolve the deficit you yourself have caused. He knows it's true. Leave your words empty and really resume social dialogue; leave the social actors on your shoulders; sit down and reach agreements with them, and then yes, then, with that agreement, come to the Toledo Pact and we will endorse it. Out of responsibility, out of commitment, we have already done so and we have demonstrated it. You are the government that has to solve that funding, even though during these five years you have also been a government and destroyed it. Now is a new moment. The CIS said that last week: citizens are worried about their pensions. If you really want to convey peace of mind to pensioners and other citizens, correct and take action now. I insist, take action now. Five years; five years without taking a single measure! Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u124	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I would ask you not to lecture the Socialist Party on pensions, and I will give you three reasons for that. [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u126	One second. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u127	First, when this government arrived in 2011 it found the system in deficit, as it was found in 1996, when it also ruled the Socialist Party. Whenever they rule, they leave the system in deficit. Secondly, in 2011 we find, for the first time in the history of democracy, frozen pensions. And you have not yet explained to the Spaniards, you who are so smart, why having 68 billion in the Reserve Fund frozen the pensions of our elders. They could have come up with other cuts. [[A honourable Member: That's not true!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u128	One second, minister. Ladies and gentlemen, remain silent while the speaker is speaking, in this case the minister. Go ahead, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u129	Thank you very much, President. You talked about the CIS. Do you know what the Spanish worry about pensions is today? 2.8%. And do you know how much it was in 2011 or the year you froze the pensions? 5%. Today, therefore, there is more confidence in this government to take forward the issue of pensions in Spain. Do you know what the pension guarantee is in Spain? The job. Your Honor, you know very well that the deficit of the system is temporary. 70% of the financial deficit is due to the loss of 3.5 million jobs in the crisis. The data says so. Therefore, the good news for the system is that we have recovered 1,600,000 jobs, that today for each new pension there are seven jobs, when in 2011 for each new pension three are destroyed, and that we have had record year in collection, 112 billion euros, something that only happened in 2008. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SONIA FERRER TESOR, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: IS THE GOVERNMENT INTENTION TO IMPROVE THE YOUTH GUARANTEE PLAN TO THE VIEW OF THEIR RESULTS IN OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/000063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u130	Question also to the Minister for Employment and Social Security, Mrs Sonia Ferrer Tesoro, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, last Monday you told the Employment Committee that you were planning to improve the youth guarantee system. We welcome this news, especially because the Socialist Group has been calling for a review of it for the terrible results it has achieved, but we have not finished believing it. It has taken three years to react and recognize that the youth guarantee system has been a real failure. That is why we ask you if this time you have the real intention to improve the youth guarantee plan that has so bad results and we ask you for concrete results, when and how you intend to do it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u132	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank him for the concern about youth employment, because it is the great national concern. In fact, I don't know if your lordship knows that the first great social pact of the X legislature was for young employment and it was called a strategy of entrepreneurship and young employment. There were 100 measures agreed between the Government, the social partners and the autonomous communities in favour of employment. It was a programme for employment before the European Youth Guarantee. This programme has already benefited more than 1,300,000 young people who have found opportunities for training, employment and entrepreneurship thanks to this experience of all Spanish society, because it is a strategy of all. Then President Rajoy and other European leaders also fought to boost youth employment through European mechanisms and the youth guarantee was born, which in Spain we have launched in collaboration and coordination with the autonomous communities. In this parallel system, the youth guarantee, there are already more than 400,000 young people registered and, of them, 20% have found a job. This is therefore another useful tool for young people, who are our top priority. It is no coincidence that the results of the two mechanisms are giving young people opportunities every day. The unemployment rate among young people has fallen by 15% and youth employment has risen by 7.4%, twice the national average. Although much remains to be done, Your Honor, Spain is today leading the growth of young jobs in Europe. Four out of ten young people who leave unemployment in Europe do so in our country, when in 2011 half of the Europeans under 25 who entered unemployment were Spanish. That is the change, I insist, thanks to the commitment of all Spanish society. I hope to count on the Socialist Group to work together for youth employment. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ferrer.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u135	Thank you. Madam Minister, that is not the reality in the labour market or in pensions. The youth unemployment rate is 46%. The youth guarantee system, which has worked in other countries, has left much to be desired here. Only one in ten Spaniards who neither study nor work has been able to benefit from this initiative. The reality is that the programme has reached very few young people and, to those who have reached them, has hardly helped them at all. So, something's going wrong. Do yourself some self-criticism. Now, after three years, they tell us they're going to check it out. Why hasn't it been done before? We have been calling for this for a long time and not just for ourselves, but for trade unions, economic agents and the media. But they did not do so until the European Union has drafted a report telling them that they are not doing it right and threatening a possible sanction. Knowing you, you will blame all but yourselves: the autonomous communities, the European Union, the European funds... Come on, if the young people don't find work it's going to be because it hasn't been good for the Virgin of Dew. Unfortunately, you have not been able to take advantage of the youth guarantee. The European Union put the money and you just had to do it right. Minister, young people in this country deserve a government that has more will, is more effective and has more interest. We cannot waste any more time or financial resources as long as our young people have no work or hope to do so and our talent leaves the country. That is why we urge you to really rectify and to take advantage of Europe's opportunity to tackle youth unemployment once and for all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u136	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like less frivolities from your person and more commitment from all socialists, including Andalusians, because it is the autonomous community with the most youth unemployment in Europe. Your Honor, $2.7 billion will go to the Youth Guarantee. We are working with the Autonomous Communities. Next week I meet with their representatives to continue to push this with strength, because in Spain everything that comes for the youth guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u138	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON RAFAEL MAYORAL PERALES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES TO THE EXCMO. SR. MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO DO TO COMPLETE THE JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, DEC OF THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE CONVENTION ON THE RIGHTS OF THE CHILD IN RELATION TO HYPOTECARY EXECUTIONS AND UNEMPLOYMENTS? [[File number 180/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u139	Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, who heads the Minister of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the truth is that it is very simple: what are you planning to do to comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, with General Comment 7 of the UN ESC Committee and with the Convention on the Rights of the Child on mortgages and evictions? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u141	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, from the outset the Government was aware of the problem of evictions due to circumstances. If you see the evolution of INE statistics in relation to mortgage executions, you will see that what they indicate is that since the beginning of 2015 there has been a reduction in evictions. Also, according to the last data we have available, which is that of the third trimester of the year 2016 - it came out a few days ago - the evicted ones have diminished by 35%. This trend is also affirmed by the General Council of the Judiciary itself and the reason is very simple: economic recovery and job creation; in fact, 60% of the foreclosures that are taking place come from the years 2005 to 2008. From the outset, the Government took steps, suspension of launch, code of good practice, and this is leading to a significant reduction in the number of evictions and launches, apart from economic recovery. [[creation of a social fund]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayoral.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u144	Minister, the truth is that I would like us to be able to frame this on a human rights issue. I want to tell you that your moratorium on launches says that in Spain children can be released from the age of three, and that is violating the Convention on the Rights of the Child. You have said that you do not guarantee housing alternatives either in this moratorium or in the following laws promoted by your Government. The Aziz judgment already in 2013 told them that there is no effective remedy for the debtor, that is, that there is a situation of defencelessness. In July 2014, after you enacted in 2013 the Frankenstein law, which buried the ILP supported by 1.5 million people, tells us that this law violates Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, effective judicial guardianship. I think that's important in a democratic state. I say the last one, which has not yet received an answer: 25 October 2015, Peñalva, which says that it violates legal certainty, the right to defence and legitimate trust. His Government had worked with the most vulnerable sectors of society to protect its friends, bankers and international speculators. There has been a repeated and systematic violation of European and international human rights law. That systematic violation of human rights by maintaining illegal judicial proceedings has resulted in illegal evictions and bringing our country out of the law. This has not only resulted in a violation of rights for the people who have suffered these procedures, but at the same time you are endangering the country, and that is not what I am saying. A judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union asked the lawyer of the European Commission why they did not open a sanctioning procedure. The answer from the European Union lawyer was: because European legislation is a mobile target. Minister, comply with the law, let us push for legislation, but that will comply with human rights. I recommend three very simple principles...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u145	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I am going to give you a series of data that will perhaps allow you to clarify the evolution of the situation of the mortgage market in Spain. More than 75,000 families - I insist, 75,000, Your Honor - have benefited from our policies; there have been more than 37,200 debt restructurings; almost 7,000 loans in payment; 7,000 families have agreed to a rental of the Social Housing Fund; more than 24,000 launches have been suspended, and Sareb has made available to the autonomous communities and the municipalities 4,000 homes, including the municipalities of Madrid and Barcelona. In this matter there are two possibilities, Your Honor, to demagogy or to put in place measures that are efficient. I repeat to you again that economic recovery is fundamental here. At a delicate time we had to take action, we were the first Government to take action against evictions and launches, but the most important thing is not those measures, the most important thing is economic recovery. With job creation you have no doubt whatsoever that, as we have seen today, with the evolution of the data on housing transactions, there will be economic recovery, less evictions and less launches. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u147	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW FOR THE PROMOTION OF PERSONAL AUTONOMY AND ATTENTION TO PERSONS IN DEPENDENCE SITUATION? [[File number 180/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u148	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mr Antonio Cantó García del Moral, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u149	Thank you, President. Minister, in matters of dependence it is customary to hear beautiful words and agreements that then have no budgetary reflection. The Dependency Act, which is ten years old, is basically that, a beautiful idea without money, without resources. What concrete improvements for the sector does the Government intend to make in the next General State Budgets?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u150	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u151	Thank you, President. Mr. Cantó, today is actually ten years since the adoption of the Dependency Act and you asked me to assess it. This law is undoubtedly a great advance for our welfare society. It has enabled a substantial improvement in the care of dependent persons and their families and has contributed to professionalization and employment generation in the socio-health sector. There are more than 800,000 people in the system today. But after these first ten years it is time to take a step forward and improve three themes: the quality of services and services, work on prevention in dependence and the sustainability of their funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Singing.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u153	Thank you, Minister. I still don't see a budget reflection. I would like to remind you that in Spain there are 1,200,000 people in dependence, without any help. Are you, ladies and gentlemen, imagining one third of our elderly without pensions, one third of the Spaniards without health care? In the last four years, Minister, 125,000 dependents have died without any help, aid that we had recognized, which we had promised them. The dependents are the most supportive Spaniards, their families are doing a job that should be done by the administrations, and to all these problems is added a growing inequality between autonomous communities. The average expenditure per dependent in Euskadi is 8,325 euros, in Ceuta and Melilla is half. If we were to deal properly with those 384,000 dependents who do not receive any help, we would be generating 100,000 jobs, Minister. And let us not forget that there are 360,000 unlisted caregivers, who receive no help and most of them are women. Ladies and gentlemen, we are able to reach a state pact for our pensions, now for education. When will you, gentlemen of the PP, join that pact that guarantees the needs of this collective and their families? When will they guarantee equality between Spanish dependants, as is the case with unemployment benefits or pensions? By the way, gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of the Government, will you ensure that this 0.6 improvement in autonomous financing, which we have taken out as a commitment from your Government from Citizens, is aimed at social policies and not at illegal referendums or autonomous television? Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun to overcome the barriers of race, gender and sexual orientation. When will we skip those of functional diversity? It's not about them or us, Minister. We've all been dependent, we'll all be dependent, and we all have very close examples. Today I can't stop remembering my grandmother Hortensia, who took care of my grandfather for many years and received no help. My grandmother was finally dependent; we promised her help, we recognized her degree of dependence, she died two years later without any recognition or a euro. We fail them, we continue to fail them, the collective of functional diversity... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Singing. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u155	Mr. Singing, after the implementation of this law, you're going to recognize me that we're better than we were ten years ago. Why? Because you will recognize that this law came to this House without economic memory, that it accumulated a waiting list of more than 300,000 people, that the economic benefits became the main benefit, distorting the law itself and the information system never worked: 12,000 people were listed as beneficiaries being deceased and 1,400 files were duplicated, generating a cost of more than 34 million euros. Over the past four years, very hard work has been done and it has to be acknowledged. The full deployment of the system has been completed; the Socialist Party legislature contributed to the Dependency Act EUR 11 billion and the People's Party legislature contributed to the Unit Act EUR 16 billion. The Court of Auditors makes it clear: The contribution of the Government of Spain to the Autonomous Communities for the Dependency Act is 49%. Therefore, we are contributing to what we have committed ourselves to in this law. The waiting list has been reduced to 50% and we have improved; we have expanded all levels of dependency on the provision for the personal assistant; we have improved the transparency of the information system, forcing all autonomous communities to contribute certificates in the data they introduce, and we have increased the quality of care by 10 points. Therefore, it seems to me that the balance sheet of these ten years is positive and among all of us we have made an effort over the past four years. Now it's time - and in that I agree with you - to reach a great deal of agreement with all the political forces, with all the autonomous communities, with all the agents involved in the Unit Law to ensure the stability and financing of the law in the future, which is this legislature... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u156	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA TERESA ANGULO ROMERO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF FRAMEWORK AGREEMENTS FOR THE SELECTION OF VACUNE SUBSISTERS APPROVED FROM 2012? [[File number 180/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u157	Question also addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality of Mrs María Teresa Angulo Romero of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u158	Thank you, President. Minister, a National Health System that in 2011 incurred a debt of EUR 16 billion, which did not pay suppliers, whose annual pharmaceutical expenditure reached EUR 12 billion or in which health tourism cost us more than 1,000 each year was a system on the verge of bankruptcy and at risk of being unsustainable. It was, moreover, an unfair system, since it was neither universal nor equitable, since it excluded thousands of citizens from health care and made people without resources pay for medicines. It was not cohesive, as not all citizens enjoyed the minimum common benefits and there was not even a common schedule of child vaccination, with the harm that this caused to many minors. Against this backdrop, it was necessary to take measures to contain expenditure and strengthen the cohesion and quality of our health system because the Spanish health system is one of the main achievements of our welfare State and making it sustainable is an obligation of all. Several steps were taken by the Government of the People's Party to achieve greater equity and maintain its quality: to make our health truly universal, to establish a common portfolio of services, to introduce new services or to approve for the first time a common schedule of child vaccination. From the scope of spending, measures to make our health system more sustainable and with sufficient strength to meet the challenges that, for example, involve incorporating innovations, including the promotion of generics, the establishment of new funding formulas, the reference price system or centralized purchases that have led to better use of resources and significant savings into the system, further increasing the coherence of the system by harmonising and reducing the cost to the autonomous communities, especially in the area of vaccines, of one of the measures with the greatest impact on public health, which has led to a reduction in the burden of disease and mortality from infectious diseases. And it is one of these specific measures that we are asking you about today, Minister. After four years since its launch, what is your Government's assessment of the framework agreements for the selection of vaccine providers approved since 2012? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u159	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u160	Thank you, President. Mrs Angulo, to talk about vaccination is to talk about one of the measures with the greatest impact on public health of citizens, the reduction of the burden of disease and the reduction of mortality. In 2010, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System agreed to establish for the first time a single calendar in Spain. It is not until March 2013 that the interterritorial council itself first agreed on a common schedule of child vaccination for all health services in the autonomous communities, combining criteria for vaccines to be administered, doses and ages. This important advance places Spain as the most advanced country in the European Union in the field of vaccination. But, far from complacency, the Ministry of Health decided to take a step further in the efficiency of purchasing management. Therefore, the framework agreements promoted since the beginning of the X Legislature for the acquisition of vaccines have simplified the purchasing processes, increased the guarantees of supply and favored the incorporation of innovations in vaccines, facilitating planning to the autonomous administrations and collaborating with the sustainability of the National Health System, because since 2012 we have saved 158 million with this purchasing center. In order to solve the timely supply of vaccines we have gone further and in the past Council of Ministers of 25 November we gave the green light to the centralized purchase of vaccines for the period 2017-2018-2019, where it is envisaged the acquisition of fifteen million doses of vaccines. It involves an investment of 300 million euros and an estimated savings of 58 million euros. It includes vaccines covered by the common children's calendar, vaccines forming part of the adult vaccination programme and the traveler's programme, but above all, this great advance is an opportunity to offer stability to the market for the supply of vaccines in our country in the face of the repeated situation of recent specific shortages in the face of increased overall demand for vaccines and the lack of flexibility in their production. With this new framework we will avoid the specific shortages we are encountering. But I would have liked Valencia, the Basque Country and Andalusia to have welcomed it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u161	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u162	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent call from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality on urgent measures against poverty. For her defence, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u163	Thank you very much, President. Minister, the OECD has just published its economic forecast for 2017, including Spain with sustained growth. Congratulations on the forecast, but we are in December 2016 with moderate economic growth and today we are talking about poverty. Growth for all? Well, that doesn't seem to be real. I rise to the rostrum on behalf of the Socialist Party, and I confess that I will try to achieve what the Basque Nationalist Party achieved a few days ago: the minister's commitment to legislate in order to get our young people to consume less alcohol. It was his commitment, we thank him and I sincerely aspire to no less. Minister, you run an exciting, hard but even more exciting department. Perhaps the contents he now has to manage have not been present in the work he has done before. Everything is new, professionals, new collectives and new problems are new. Not only must you manage health. Health is first, but health of the body, social health and health in equality between all. It will have to expand its current vocabulary: fight against poverty, risk of social exclusion, health exclusion, spatial exclusion, inclusion, social diagnosis, social intervention, accompaniment..., terms that are common to social service professionals, from whom they have the opportunity to learn a lot: social workers, social educators, therapists, psychologists... Listen to everyone, because social intervention needs multidisciplinary teams to address a complex problem. I don't know if you've already had the opportunity to meet with social service professionals. I think I should do it as soon as possible and soon as possible. Listen to your concerns, which are many and growing, especially in recent years. They have seen their profession devalued and suffered the loss of social value when more needs have arisen and resources have decreased more. Hear from your mouths your helplessness for not being able to give answers to the citizens who need it most, your anger for not being heard your proposals for the people who have nothing. Listen to them as soon as possible, I insist. We are here today to remind the minister that there are poor people in our country; the poor without any more surnames and the poor devote much of their work to social service professionals. The Royal Academy defines poverty as the quality of poor and poor as needy, which does not have the necessary to live, completing the definition with unhappy, unhappy and sad. I consciously do not want to talk about energy poverty, job poverty, educational poverty, child poverty because they are all different faces from the same problem: poverty without palliatives, minister, poverty without surnames. And we cannot simplify concepts by putting names that mask the situations of need of so many people who live so close to us, of those who also listen to the OECD growth forecasts. Unhappy, wretched and sad. Behind a poor person there is a woman who works for hours and below the minimum wage, tell Mrs. Báñez because she doesn't seem to know it; there is a poor worker or unemployed person with no benefits, even poorer; there is a child who goes to school without breakfast or who can't buy books; there is a pensioner who gives up his medicines because he can't pay them or there is a person with a disability who can't take up the co-payment of a service, if he receives it. Perhaps behind a poor person there is a woman who is the victim of ill-treatment who does not receive a benefit, and who endures, or a student who cannot continue his university studies because of that poverty that has arisen from his family. With all these faces there are 3.2 million poor people in our country. One in five children is poor, or do you think there are poor children, children of rich parents? The average income of families continues to decline. 39.4% of households have no capacity to face unforeseen expenses; 9.4% of households are delayed in payments for expenses related to primary housing - or mortgage or rent or receipts of gas and electricity or the community -; the risk of poverty rate is 22.2%, minister; the risk of poverty rate for children under sixteen is 30.1. These figures are the ones I would like to have recorded. [[The Lord]] From the Socialist Party we believe that the time has come to start discussing the General Budgets of the State for 2017 and, if this economic recovery is true and that sustained growth is true, now is when we must do everything possible to ensure that there are no poor people in our environment. Madam Minister, it is very necessary to listen to the professionals who can make a good diagnosis of poverty situations and to do so we must provide them with instruments to create a common framework for social intervention and common social benefits in all the territories. Should citizenship rights be guaranteed? Of course, in a strong, universal public system of social services, which prioritizes the work of preventing social exclusion. It is necessary to listen to those responsible for the management of social services in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities to share with the State administration the needs and mechanisms to provide solutions to the poverty that exists in all territories, with different figures but with the same faces. It is necessary that we develop at once the minimum living income as an instrument that can solve many of the situations of poverty that we live in; a minimum income that is agreed by all, homogeneous and that does not discriminate against citizens according to their place of residence; a guaranteed minimum income that is not a resource with impossible limits for access to it; an instrument that allows social service professionals to carry out their work and that serves to escape the chronic spiral of poverty; a minimum income with sufficient budgetary resources that can meet the growing demand; a controlled minimum income, but not controlling or stigmatizing. It is necessary to guarantee this vital minimum income in a very special way to people with extreme vulnerability, to those who have exhausted the benefits, to the boys and girls who have been protected by the administrations and who do not have a hopeful future, to families with minors and who are so alarmed by these shameful figures of child poverty, to those who have been expelled from all resources, to the homeless people who provoke so much rejection in some leaders, minister, all of them. Is it necessary to guarantee minimum living income to all those who lose their homes because they cannot afford it and to those who label them as citizens with energy poverty, or does energy poverty appear alone? We need to sit down and find solutions. To this end, the Socialist Party proposes a comprehensive plan to combat poverty because we do not want poor citizens to exist in a society with sustained growth. We want growth to be reflected in them too, but in everyone. Minister, poverty is a social disease that tends to be chronic. A child who is born and growing poor has much more chances of being a poor adult. This disease has treatment, a comprehensive treatment that allows to address solutions on all fronts and not only from social work. The Socialist Party has repeatedly proposed to strengthen the public social services system with a vital minimum income and a new model of social coverage, and today we are again proposing it. We want to work with all groups on this new, fairer and more distributive social model. You, Minister, can take the momentum of this new model from the ministry, that exciting ministry, and at the same time complicated, which now has the responsibility to manage. You can do it if you want. We are prepared and sure that the other parliamentary groups will also want to. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u165	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Martín, of course I will listen to everyone. That is what I have been doing since I came to the ministry, listening to all sectors and, of course, I will also listen to the Socialist Group. I have followed his intervention very carefully. I share your concern, but, I am honest with you, I cannot share either your diagnosis or your solution. I sincerely believe that the economic crisis has led our country to a very serious economic and social situation. A country in which unemployment increased by more than 3 million people - therefore with names and surnames - in the 2007-2011 legislature, where more than half of the unemployment that was generated in Europe was in Spain, where 1,500 jobs were destroyed per day, where the youth unemployment rate tripled, where seven out of ten women who were unemployed in Europe were Spanish, where a part of the financial sector was on the verge of collapse so that, in addition to not being able to provide money to families and businesses, it was endangering the savings of thousands of Spaniards and threatening to drag our entire economy. A country where the gross domestic product had fallen seven points and where we accumulated a deficit of 9 % and a risk premium so high that it was practically impossible to finance us. A country where, as you report, the risk of poverty and social exclusion increased by 13%, grew 5 times faster than the European Union and 3 million more people became at risk of poverty, from 10 million in 2007 to 13 million in 2012. The number of households in which all its members were unemployed reached a total of 1,700,000 in March 2012 and child poverty in children under the age of sixteen increased by 7.7 per cent. A country where inequality increased by 8%. According to the OECD - you mentioned it - we were the country where inequality grew the most, just behind Cyprus. But inequality did not increase because the incomes of the wealthiest people grew a lot, but mainly because the incomes of the poorest households decreased a lot. Do you know how much? 13% according to the OECD. One of the OECD countries in which the incomes of the poorest households declined the most was ours. And you know why? Because we were the most affected by unemployment; about 75% of the increase in inequality since 2009 comes from unemployment and low labour intensity. All national and international experts, Caritas, Red Cross, Save the Children, Unicef, the European Network for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion and the OECD all agree on one thing: employment is the main instrument for combating poverty. Look, I'm not saying the only one, I'm saying the main one, the most effective, the most solid in the long run. You know why? Because employment, in addition to generating individual income, generates self-esteem, generates personal growth, returns people's own opportunities and economic growth, and serves to generate the public income we need to maintain our social state. Because we believe in all this, over the past four years we have made employment our top priority and our top priority in the fight against poverty, which remain so and so in this legislature: job creation and the fight against poverty. The latest figures for unemployment - those of registered unemployment published this November - indicate that the total number of unemployed is at the lowest level in the last seven years and that the decline in unemployment accumulated since the beginning of the year is 303,000 people, the largest in the historical series in a month of November. The number of indefinite contracts increases annually by 16.6%, more than twice as much as the number of temporary contracts. And unemployment among young people under the age of 25 has fallen in the last 12 months by 41,000 people, so that youth unemployment is reduced by 11.3% annually, above the overall average of 8.6%. Since 2012, one million contracts with persons with disabilities have been signed and by November this year the number of contracts concluded over the same month of the previous year has already exceeded by 11%. He told me about the victims of gender-based violence. As contracts awarded to victims of gender-based violence have grown by 58% in the last parliamentary term. Therefore, Your Honor, I share with you the concern for people who, despite having a job, do not reach the end of the month. That is why we have committed ourselves with you, with the Socialist Party, to raising the interprofessional minimum wage from EUR 655 to EUR 707, an 8% growth of EUR 52 per month. Indeed, I believe that the only sustainable way to improve this situation is to create jobs, as I am demonstrating with data, and of course to invest in improving our education system. That is why we are going to work with you, with Citizens and all those who want to join in this work, to promote a national pact for education that allows us to place our education system at the highest levels of excellence and is an effective tool to guarantee equal opportunities in our country, for all the children of any family in Spain. We will continue to work to generate the economic conditions that will enable us to reach the target of 20 million jobs by 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, today Spain is creating jobs at very low levels of growth, something that has never happened before and which tells us that all growth is being translated into jobs. That is undoubtedly a very positive fact for the fight against poverty in our country. I told you before and I repeat it now: employment is the most important instrument in the fight against poverty, but not the only one. We must work to strengthen the sustainability of our welfare State because it strengthens social cohesion in our country; our National Health System, our education system and our public pension system guarantee equal opportunities, so it is so important to preserve it. We have worked for the past four years to strengthen the sustainability of these pillars: by ordering access to the health card by putting an end to health tourism, by addressing the commitment to improve the performance of our education system and reduce early retirement rates, and by ensuring the protection of pensioners in a context of serious economic hardship, by avoiding the freezing of pensions and by introducing a sustainability factor that maintains the proportionality between social security contributions and expected benefits, given the continued increase in life expectancy. We will continue to work in this legislature with you, with citizens and with all those who want to join in this work within the framework of the Toledo Pact, within the framework of the educational pact and in all that is necessary to ensure the preservation of our welfare state. We want to continue to work to improve the social protection of people in situations of greatest vulnerability. Over the past four years, we have launched the 2013/2016 National Action Plan for Social Inclusion, with €136 billion. We created for the first time in history an extraordinary fund for the fight against child poverty - you mentioned child poverty - with an initial endowment of 17 million euros in 2014, 32 million euros in 2015 and 48 million euros in 2016. We have extended the Preparation Plan and, in addition, we have agreed with the social partners a new aid of EUR 426, which means aid to 700,000 people with surnames and surnames, as well as the activation programme for employment, which means benefiting 200,000 families. Last Friday the Council of Ministers approved the new program of care for long-term unemployed between thirty and fifty-five years, a program for 2016, 2017 and 2018, with 561 million, that will possibly benefit 1,264,000 people with names and surnames. We modified the pharmaceutical contribution so that long-term unemployed people did not have to pay 40% of the medicines, benefiting one million unemployed. We set up a Social Housing Fund for financial institutions to provide families in vulnerable situations with rents at prices between 150 and 400 euros, benefiting 10,000 families. We also approved a tax reform that reduced the tax burden to 20 million taxpayers and put in place important measures to support families with children and persons with disabilities. We paid, through the FLA, EUR 3 billion in debts to social entities that threatened the viability of many of them. And we have reinforced the IRPF grants, 850 million earmarked for social action in the last legislature and already in this legislature we have launched a new call that will involve the allocation of another 235 million euros. We have a system of social protection that provides a public benefit to 14 million people each month; 14 million people receive a monthly benefit from the State or from the autonomous communities which, however, is not always able to respond to the needs of citizens. Therefore, we have an obligation to work to improve. To this end, we must strengthen the programme to combat child poverty that we launched in 2014. We also need to complete the map of social benefits, which will allow us to identify the gaps in coverage, as well as the duplications we have in our social protection system. We will strengthen social services through a basic law on social services at the national level that allows us to guarantee the basic equality of all Spaniards. We will improve the social protection of families with children with higher poverty rates than the rest through a comprehensive family support law that orders and updates the support they receive. We will adopt the new social inclusion plan, as the current plan expires in 2016, and we will adopt a national poverty strategy based on a broad social and political consensus, with the collaboration of public administrations, that sets targets for poverty eradication through the establishment of measures in all areas of management that are periodically evaluable. We will deploy the National Comprehensive Strategy for Homeless People; this is the first time that such a strategy has been adopted in Spain. And we will work, as the Minister of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda will announce in the next inquiry, to reinforce the social bonus. The figures are still worrying, of which there is no doubt. I am aware that, despite the fact that recovery is beginning to be a reality, it has not reached all families or all people. There are still many men and women and many children, too many, who have not seen this recovery and are still having a bad time, but the trend tells us that we are going in the right direction and encourages us to continue to work with the same strength in creating jobs in order to be able to pay for our country's social system. I am convinced that we will have the help of you, of the Socialist Group, and I hope that of the whole House. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Martín González.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u167	Thank you, President. Minister, you keep talking about inheritance, quite a surprise because the truth is that I don't come to talk about inheritance anymore, but I also ask you to agree with the president, who yesterday said yes in the Senate to the development of a minimum living income. I say you'll see it in the Council of Ministers, see if it's sooner than later. Look, I think we need to talk about poverty and poor people with more responsibility. I'm not telling you to be irresponsible, but to talk with a higher dose of responsibility. We are accustomed to the rejections of the People's Party in a systematic way in the face of the majority of proposals that have been brought forward, they have always rejected them, but talking about poverty is not just about employment. You have not allowed any amendments to the budgets under the agreed plan headings, which, in the absence of a reference in the arguments given to you by the Ministry's technicians, have been cut by 60%, nor in the inclusion plans nor, much less, in the anti-poverty plans. Not many proposals have been accepted. You boast of the Plan to combat child poverty, but that is not enough. Highlighted leaders of the People's Party have come to make derogatory comments, from Mr Montoro to Mrs Aguirre, Mr Hernando or Mrs Fabra - for which we should remember - and even I personally have come to hear a person responsible for social services say that there have always been rich and poor. I know where I come from and I know very well what my life path is, and I know there's always been rich and poor, so we're here asking for a minimum living income. Some of his predecessors learned four facts, some wrong, others of unknown origin, and repeating them over and over again seemed to have the arguments made for all the interventions, but they were not right. I'm going to ask you, Minister, not to fall into the same mistake. I trust that it contrasts the data. He has named reports that I was also going to name in the speech, I have annotated them: the Arope indicator, the reports of Save de Children, of Unicef, of the Network of fight against poverty, and even the data of Caritas are reliable even though Mr Montoro despises them, and the data of Caritas the truth is that they put the hair at the top, minister. I am confident that it intends to comply with the recommendations of the European Commission which say in text: rationalising the system of minimum income and family support. I suppose that report will also have been passed on by the ministry technicians; read it because it has many details that are juicy. But I will give you some more data on poverty: 730,000 households without income; 13.5 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion; 3.2 million people living in severe poverty, which means income of 30% of the average income, i.e. 332 euros per month for single-person households. We hold second place in the European Union in child poverty and inequality. He spoke a lot about employment; the risk of poverty among the unemployed is 45.7%, but the risk of poverty among employees is 14.2%. It is very clear that the quality of work comes as far as it comes and is turning many workers into poor people as well. In addition, there is one fact that you have not mentioned, and that is that we have 54% coverage in unemployment protection. Getting lower, every month a little less. 20% with higher incomes have incomes almost 7 times higher than the poorest 20%: the inequality gap is growing. Madam Minister, we sincerely believe that the time has come to seek solutions to all these numbers, not only those you have, but also those we have others, because the numbers represent poor people. The Socialist Party is going to draw up a proposal for a comprehensive plan to combat poverty because we do not resign. We are proposing a new common framework of social benefits, with a special impact on dependent child benefits, which are pathetic, Minister; pathetic. We will propose the creation of a vital minimum income and we will propose a greater consensus with the autonomous communities and local corporations. And, of course, we are going to propose the repeal of the local reform, which has left the municipalities, which really care for the neighbours, which they see every day, without competence. And no, Minister, the Socialist Party does not resign. Let me finish by recommending you to read a book, The Kisses in the Bread, by Almudena Grandes. You may already know him, but I recommend that you release him because they are stories of poverty, of the poor, of different faces of poverty but always with dignity and with a lot of life. We owe them all a piece of that sustainable growth that we are recognized, but that they do not see. I conclude, Minister, by saying yes, that next week we will see if the commitment of the President of the Government yesterday in the Senate is translated into unanimous support to fight poverty with a valuable instrument such as minimum living income. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u169	Your Honor, you say we don't come here to talk about inheritance. Honestly, I think we need to talk about the past to make the diagnosis and know what we have to do in the future. Therefore, we do need to talk, too, about inheritance so as not to be mistaken in the diagnosis. The policies implemented by President Rajoy's government, far from having been responsible - you say we are responsible - for having promoted an increase in inequality, on the contrary, have provided the necessary tools for the return to job creation and, consequently, to initiate an incipient path of reducing inequality. As that improvement is consolidated and intensified, the Government has turned to caring for those most in need so as not to leave anyone behind. You've talked about the Arope rate. Let's analyze it. For contextualization purposes, let us remember that the income variables of this survey correspond to the year 2014 and we are at the end of 2016. In spite of this, the results show a widespread improvement in all indicators of poverty and the economic situation of households. The Arope rate is reduced by 6 tenths and its components are also reduced: the population at risk of poverty, which is reduced by 1 tenth, and the population at risk, which is also reduced. That's why I'm only asking for two things. The first is that they do not go wrong again in the diagnosis, because the main cause of poverty is unemployment; it is not the only one, but it is the main one. Therefore, if we really want to fight poverty in our country, we must turn to continuing to encourage job creation. That is why we must maintain a responsible economic and budgetary policy. Do not fall into the temptation to compete with those who believe that all public spending will fix it. And the second, before we start creating new benefits, is that we all work together to analyze what is going on with our current protection system. Let us complete - it is not completed; we are doing it but it is not completed - the map of benefits, that of the local administration through the FEMP, that of the autonomous communities, that of the provincial parliaments, that of the Government of Spain and that of the money that is distributed through 0.7% with all the NGOs, and let us analyze together what we can do to improve it, because in our social protection system there is room to improve the way in which resources are used. We want to strengthen their capacity to respond to the real needs of citizens. It's very easy to come here and say: we want a new paycheck. Frankly, first we have to make the total map of what is being received from the municipalities, from the parliaments, from the autonomous communities and from the Government of Spain, because today we do not have the map. But if we really believe in the welfare state, we can't stifle it. The best social policy is that which provides long-term security for citizens, not with measures such as those you took, for example, the 2,500 euros per child, which lasted only eight months, so many people who got pregnant with that measure when your child was born ran out of pay. Or the famous 400 euros pay for everyone, which lasted only once. We believe that we have to make a great map of social services, know exactly all social services and benefits of all administrations in order to be able to manage better and reach a lot more people, probably with the same resources. This minister wants to do it, and I am sure that you will support us. It is true that the consequences of this short-term economic crisis cannot be corrected. In four years 3,345,000 people lost their jobs in Spain and we faced a public deficit of 9%. The impact of the economic crisis was very great and in four years it is not resolved, and what we are clear is that it is not managed by measures such as the EUR 400 or the EUR 2,500, which lasted only eight months. We have to make policies with common sense, with responsibility and transparency, and with knowledge of all the services we have today throughout the territory and in all public administrations, and when we are clear on the map we will move forward with the request that the Socialist Group has made. I am convinced that with the same resources we will reach more people and therefore the most vulnerable families, to which I am committed. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, on the government's asylum policy. [[File number 172/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u171	We turn to the next item on the agenda, the urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the government's asylum policy. Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. The right to asylum, although not regulated, has been a practice of human beings for centuries. In fact, when there was flight from a war, from a conflict, there was always shelter and protection in another territory. However, since the interwar period, there is a crisis that we all know about in relation to asylum policy and it is about mitigating after the Second World War with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Geneva Convention and a series of international, regional and territorial treaties that guaranteed this fundamental human right and that is the basic right of international relations. Today, however, the asylum situation is worsening: we have 60 million refugees in the world. One million people have tried to cross the Mediterranean in the last year and 30,000 have lost their lives - the Mediterranean Sea is the largest mass grave in the world - in the last fifteen years. Only in the past year 3,000 people lost their lives in Mediterranean waters trying to cross the border. It is, therefore, a problem in the 21st century that does not come from a nebula, but has its genesis in imperialist wars and in the international economic model, in capitalist globalization. And a third element to take into account in the future is climate change. Wars determine the number of refugees. In 2003, Spain participated in the Iraq war, which resulted in one million deaths, hundreds of thousands of refugees, impoverishment of the territory and devastation of Iraq's areas, resulting in the flight and exodus of hundreds of thousands. In 2011 it participated in the no-fly zone in Libya, a priori to avoid bombing, but in practice it was to bomb the Libyan army and allow the passage of jihadists to this country, which is today a failed State, a State through which weapons and terrorist groups are freely transited. According to data from the Italian Coast Guard, on 30 May 2016 6,500 immigrants were rescued on the coasts of Libya, in Mediterranean waters; 6,500 immigrants in one day on the coasts of Libya. We currently have 12 million refugees in Syria as a result of the armed conflict in which the Western powers have played a role at least suspected of supporting armed groups mostly controlled by jihadists. Today there are 6.6 million Syrians displaced in Syrian territory, 5 million Syrians in the surrounding countries - Egypt, Turkey, Lebanon, Iraq or Jordan - and only half a million Syrians have managed to cross the border with Europe. There is also another war that brings refugees, which is that of Yemen, which does not appear so much in the media. Saudi Arabia's aviation bombards schools and hospitals in Yemeni territory with impunity. Perhaps the fact that Saudi Arabia is an oil partner and a buyer of European weapons makes this war less known to citizens. Another element is the economic model. Minister, today 1% of the world's population has more wealth than the remaining 99%. There are 80 people in the world who have more wealth than 3.5 billion people. It is an economic model that generates inequality, poverty and the exodus of people from the south to the north looking for better living conditions, decent conditions to live, which unfortunately in most cases they do not find in the countries of the north. Today Europe has 1,250,000 asylum applications. Of these, only 1% belong to Spain - 14,600 -, compared to the more than 440,000 registered by Germany, the more than 70,000 registered by France or the more than 80,000 registered by Italy. Of the 14,600 requests registered by Spain, only 3,240 dossiers have been resolved, 31%, compared to countries such as Germany, which resolves 57% of the dossiers despite having a larger volume, or the Netherlands, which resolves 80%. In addition, the situation in our country is aggravated by the fact that of the few more than 1,000 persons whose files have been resolved, only 220 persons received refugee status and 805 subsidiary protection, when the refugee figure provides more guarantees and rights for persons than subsidiary protection, which obliges them to re-examine the files at the age of five and makes it difficult to obtain nationality. In conclusion, we believe that the asylum and reception system in Spain is a disaster and that the Government lacks will. I already know that the minister opens portfolio, but we cannot deny the four years of absolute majority of the Rajoy government in which this problem has not been addressed. We do not yet have a regulation that develops the Asylum Act of 2009, after seven years, when the third provision of that law led to the development of a regulation within six months, with the negative consequences that this entails for persons seeking asylum in our country. In addition, we believe that the Asylum and Refugee Office has little influence on the Government's ministerial structure, when the Asylum and Refugee Office centralizes asylum applications in Spain. Minister, I do not know if you have read the last report of the Ombudsman, Soledad Becerril, nothing suspicious of leftism, in which he stated that the Asylum and Refugee Office only has three social workers, that there is a lack of staff, that only one interpreter of Russian and Armenian and for the rest of the languages interpreters are requested from the Spanish Catholic Migration Commission, that the computer system is obsolete, etc. In addition, the agreement with the European Union establishes a quota for Spain of 17,000 refugees by September next year. So far, 687 refugees have arrived. In addition, there is a lack of coordination in our country with the autonomous communities, municipalities or even NGOs, which have expressed their willingness to host refugees and to become involved in asylum policy. According to Spanish associations and NGOs, it is estimated that there is a stock of around 16,000 unsolved files, and you know, Minister, that until a request is made, it is subject to expulsion as a result of administrative irregularities. In addition, there are delays of up to five months when the European directive sets a maximum period of six days. According to the Ombudsman's report, there is also a lack of investment by the Government in the training of office workers on language, gender or sexual orientation issues, which we hope will be addressed in this legislature, Minister. The 2009 law prevents individuals from submitting applications to embassies and consulates in the countries of origin. They continue to leave the request for a transfer to the will of the ambassador. We therefore believe that it violates the human rights of refugees. We have the dramatic example of the minor Syrian with burns produced by the war, also reflected in the report of the Ombudsman herself, who requests a transfer from the Embassy of Spain in Turkey and, however, is denied such a transfer in order to regroup with her family. The reception system indicated in the law also depends on a network of public centres and NGOs that have also suffered the cuts that the Government has implemented in the various areas and ministries. A separate issue is the temporary residence centres for immigrants from Ceuta and Melilla, who currently host refugees, are oversaturated and have not been designed to develop asylum policy. A basic principle of the Geneva Convention is that of non-refoulement of persons. Spain is, sadly, known worldwide for the hot returns that occur on the southern border and that have also been elevated to the rank of law through the law gag. Mass returns attack rights covered by our Constitution, international treaties and the Geneva Convention, such as the right to identify persons in need of protection and asylum. Furthermore, as the Minister is well aware, the reform of the common European asylum system, the SECA, is currently being addressed, and from our group we ask him to harmonize legislation, but not downwards. We want to repeal the Dublin Protocol because we believe that it is irreplaceable and that the human rights of asylum-seekers are guaranteed. Minister, I would like to ask you whether the precarious situation in the Asylum and Refugee Office, according to the Ombudsman's own report, seems normal to you as to how you intend to fulfil your commitment to the European Union to host 17,000 refugees when only 687 have been received so far, and what you are going to do to resolve the stock of more than 16,000 unsolved dossiers. And in relation to the SECA, I would like to know who is negotiating on the part of Spain and on what criteria. Finally, given the Government's lack of human rights involvement in relation to refugees, I would ask the Government if it could share the Spanish position in Europe with this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u173	Thank you, Mr. Bustamante. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bustamante Martín, first of all, I want to greet you, because we share a constituency. On the other hand, I would like to acknowledge - why not - that the subject, whose proposal comes from both you and Mr Garzón Espinosa, is a topical one, an important one and concerns Spanish society. I am asked by your honor on this subject, which is of great interest to you and also to the Ministry of the Interior and the Government of Spain; it is an issue that concerns you and also us, concerns Spanish society and therefore it is the responsibility of the Government of Spain to take the responsibility to lead it, together with the NGOs, with the rest of society and above all with volunteerism, which is by the way very good and good in our nation. There is no doubt that talking about responsibility and solidarity is a fundamental thing today and, of course, if you are concerned, we are also concerned about you. If we talk about having feelings, of being humanitarian, of being supportive, in short, of having heart, I will tell you that you have it, I have it and of course we all have it, the whole of Spanish society. We could hardly have a closer and closer conversation and be able to deny each other that we both have the same feelings for all those people who are having a bad time in their countries of origin. Last Friday, 9 December, I participated for the first time in a JHA Council of Ministers of the Interior in Brussels, in which one of the main topics of analysis and debate was that of refugees, a consequence no doubt of the great humanitarian crisis with which each and every society of European countries coexists. This humanitarian crisis, which has indeed arisen years ago and which has been greatly reinforced since the war conflicts in the countries of the eastern Mediterranean, is worsening the situation. At that JHA Council, Mr Bustamente, Spain presented the degree of commitment to the agreements adopted since the extraordinary European Council of 20 July 2015 and, among those agreements, I must recall that Spain committed itself with all European partners to resettle 1,449 refugees. I don't want to go into numbers wars because numbers wars can cover up or overshadow to some extent the amount of human tragedies that are behind people. You have here been the first to start making statements that I have to tell you that they do not correspond to reality. Whenever you want, I can give you data. With the figures I am going to give you both of resettlements and of the relocations already carried out, Spain is, to date, in the sixth country of Europe and the fourth of the euro area in effective relocation and resettlement procedures. This should not satisfy any public officials as long as there are some issues that are pending, but we cannot deny the effort, the commitment that the Spanish Government is making to meet the migratory pressure that the European Union is experiencing today, without any precedent. On the other hand, Mr Bustamante, Spain pledged to relocate up to 15,888 refugees before September 2017. This second commitment has to be analysed in the light of Decision 2015/1523 of 14 September 2015 committing Spain to relocate 1,300 refugees, and the subsequent Decision, 2015/1601 of 22 September 2015, committing Spain to relocate up to a maximum of 14,588 more refugees. Your Honor, you have no doubt that Spain has been working from the very beginning so that these commitments can be implemented in the required time. And so our country was one of the first States to start relocations with the announcement, specifically on October 8, 2015, of a first pilot relocation from Italy, which included 50 people. At first, however, it was difficult for the Spanish Government to set in motion relocation and resettlement processes, as most European Union countries are also experiencing. These difficulties were born that these processes, however much we want, do not depend exclusively on the political will of the Member States or their governments, as is easily understandable. So, on the one hand, as far as relocation processes are concerned, I must remind you that the implementation of the European commitments is subject to the procedures laid down in the decisions taken in the European Union. It is therefore imperative for Spain and all the Member States to follow the procedure set out in Article 5 of both decisions, and the pace which each State considers appropriate cannot be accelerated, but must be subject to the established procedure. At the same time, the implementation of the relocation process required the creation of what are called contact points, points that sought immediately to put all the files into operation. Eleven in principle were scheduled for 2016, in accordance with the procedure expressly established by the Union to carry out these transfers and at the same time channel them from Greece and Italy. However, as of mid-January 2016, only three of the scheduled points were operational: two in Italy, Lampedusa and Trapani, and one in Greece, Lesbos. Ladies and gentlemen, these initial delays in the implementation of the specific points, the problems arising from the creation and application of the procedures laid down in the various directives and the internal situation of Spain itself, with a government in office of almost eleven months, have not prevented Spain from communicating its willingness to relocate 900 applicants for international protection, 750 from Greece and 150 from Italy. The last communication, Mr Bustamante, was made during the JHA held in Luxembourg on 13 October, when we announced Spain's willingness to relocate 500 more people, 100 from Italy and 400 from Greece. This places us, I assure you, as the third country in number of communications announced to relocate applicants for international protection from Greece, only behind France and Portugal, and fifth in terms of relocation announcements from Italy, behind Romania, Portugal, Finland and France. To date, these announcements have been made in various transfers to our Peninsula throughout 2016. 350 applicants for international protection have arrived in our country from Greece and 50 from Italy, and of the 500 most announced people on 13 October, the first transfers to Spain are expected to take place before the end of this year. These figures, Your Honor, demonstrate Spain's interest in overcoming the difficulties that have existed in the implementation and implementation of these processes and at the same time in meeting the commitments made in the field of relocation. With regard to the resettlement commitment - 1,449 applicants - it should be recalled that in our country resettlement is articulated through the adaptation of a national resettlement programme, as set out in the first additional provision of Law 12/2009 of 30 October, which regulates the right of asylum and subsidiary protection. In this way, the Government articulated the implementation of the commitment made in two years: 724 applicants for international protection in 2016, 725 in 2017, and to this we would have to add the 130 people foreseen in the 2014 program that was not implemented in 2015 due to the events that happened in the Eastern Mediterranean and that are known by his lordship. Similarly, I would also like to remind you that the implementation of a national resettlement programme may take about six months from the start of the formal request to Acnur to initiate the process until the applicants for international protection arrive in our country, a period which may, however, be - and in fact is - affected by factors such as the situation in the country of resettlement, the capacity of the authorities of that country or the role of other organizations in the resettlement procedure, so there is also part of the procedure that escapes the exclusive control of the Spanish Government. However, during 2016 the Government has endeavoured to fulfil that commitment and to date all relevant communications have been made to comply with the 2015 national resettlement programme: 289 refugees have now been transferred to Spain, 232 persons from Lebanon and 57 persons from Turkey, while the remaining transfers are currently under way. A small reference should also be made to the difficulties encountered in the implementation of various resettlements from Turkey resulting from the attempted coup d'état. Once the transfers are in progress, Spain will have fulfilled by 2016 with the commitment it had adopted and we will also continue to incorporate it, because the national resettlement programme will soon have to be set for 2017. On the other hand, his lordship has spoken - and I finish - of illegal returns on the southern border. Firstly, Spain does not carry out illegal expulsions, as you have said. Secondly, precisely in order to strengthen access to the international protection procedure, contrary to what you proclaim, the Ministry of the Interior established in May 2015 the offices at the border posts of Ceuta and Melilla. Yesterday the director of Frontex made some statements, in which he clearly said that there was no illegality in the returns that take place in Ceuta and Melilla. Spain strictly complies with the Schengen Agreement. Be absolutely certain that, when a person is returned, it is always done after having met all the legal requirements, but above all making sure that that person is repatriated to a safe country and that no one is put at any risk. We are going to face the culmination of the drafting of the regulation, which is about to be finalised, and we believe that it will be a reality at the beginning of next year. There is no doubt that Spain is going to contribute in the reform of the common European asylum system to the protection of everyone's rights and solidarity, not only at the time when those who are entitled to that asylum are to be declared, but then, once they come to our country, to fulfil all the rights they have. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the Ombudsman's report, we are aware that we need to redouble our efforts in the Asylum Office. That is why there has been a staff reinforcement that we will continue to maintain over the next year, but we have also increased the budget, a budget line that, despite the situation we are in from the budgetary point of view, we have increased by more than one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u175	Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u176	President, thank you very much. I'm done. I understand, Mr. Bustamante, that you are concerned. So is the Government. We reach out to him because I think it is an aspect in which we all have to work, in which we all have to work and in which we all have to be responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u177	Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u178	Minister, you have appealed to the good heart and good feelings of those we share in this House. I do not doubt the good heart and the good feelings of the Sevillians, of the Sevillians, of the Andalusians, of the Andalusians and of all in general, we are people of good heart, of good feelings, but besides that we need politics, we need facts more than words. We judge the Government by the facts and not by the will, the heart or the feelings. [[Applauds]] And the policy of this Government with regard to refugees, as you will understand, has been detrimental in the light of the facts and in the light of what is reflected in the report by the Ombudsman, Mrs Soledad Becerril. [[Mr. Merino López makes negative gestures]] Mr. Merino says no. I do not say this, says the Ombudsman - nothing suspicious of the left - in a report that is devastating with the policy proposed by Mr Rajoy's Government on asylum. [[Mrs. Villalobos Talero: She interprets it as she wants]] The Ombudsman says so, read the report.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u179	Please, Mrs Villalobos, do not interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u180	Don't get nervous, Mrs. Villalobos. I have the turn of my word; when I touch you, you set out your arguments. [[Applauds]] The Ombudsman, Mrs Soledad Becerril, says so. [[Mrs Villalobos Talero utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u181	Please don't argue with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u182	I do not know whether the Minister was taking the figure out of his head, but I remind you, Mr Zoido, that of 1,250,000 asylum applications registered in the European Union only 1% belong to our country. There has also been no willingness on the part of the Government to develop the Asylum Act of 2009, to develop the regulations allowing refugees to have a guarantee framework, despite the fact that seven years have passed since the development of the Act in 2009. In addition, new transfers are expected at the beginning of the year - said the Minister -; we have to reach 17,000 in September 2017 and we are well below the figure committed in Europe. The European Union welcomes only 0.2% in relation to its population, compared to countries such as Lebanon, which welcomes 40% if we compare it to the population of that country. We therefore call for solidarity, commitment and concrete proposals from the Government in Europe regarding the protection of minors and not to homogenize asylum policy in Europe downwards, but to respect international treaties, the Geneva Convention and the Universal Charter of Human Rights. The hot returns - said the minister - are not illegal. True, they are not illegal because you have given them rank of law under the umbrella of the law gag, but I remind you that there has been a remedy of unconstitutionality in relation to that law for two years. Finally, I would ask you to negotiate, to lend your hand to this House to consensus politics in Europe. In Europe we have seen the clearly mercantilist character of the Union, clearly capitalist when in the summer of 2015 the Greek Government was threatened, after the Greek people voted against the policies imposed by the Troika, including by expelling them from the European Union itself and, however, a few months later the response and the voices that rose were more timorous and less when one of the Member States, Hungary, violates one of the founding principles of the European Union and represses, and even gasses, refugees at the border. These are facts and examples that we cannot allow and I ask the Government to move a policy of solidarity, which guarantees human rights in Europe and also to get to work in Spain because much remains to be done, because at the moment there has been no will on the part of the Government. We hope that with the control of this House and the pressure of associations and civil society on the street, the Government will respond to this urgent and pressing problem, such as that of human rights and that of the millions of people at the gates of Europe waiting for a dignified life, a better life and their rights as people are guaranteed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u183	Thank you very much, Mr Bustamante. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u184	Thank you very much, President. You will allow me, Mr Bustamante, that after this second intervention in which you have not provided any new figures - especially those that you have given me that caused a great alarm - and to set us as an example Germany, tell you that Germany is behind us both in effective resettlements and in effective relocations. He also told us that France is the panacea and yes, France is the one who has relocated most, but it is not so far from Spain. So, I think we need to be serious. I told him earlier that behind the figures there are always people, behind the figures there is suffering. You think you have the legitimacy of solidarity and feelings and, frankly, I don't think you have it. This group, which supports the Government of Spain, has the same sensitivity - and must be assumed - and the same solidarity, and I am sure that it is. Time will tell us who is right and who is not. What I can assure you is that all the people who have come here and are among us do not want to go to another country, firstly because they are finding in Spain the protection of their rights and, secondly, because they are living together with Spanish society, which is characterized by solidarity. If we talk about percentages, there is no doubt that the group to which you belong does not have the same representativeness as the People's Group. But it is not a question of discussing whether the United Left or Podemos or the People's Party; this is a problem of Spanish society, it is a problem of the European Union and it is a problem to which we must all give a solution. I therefore give you the opportunity to participate in this policy to respond to the needs of those who are forced to leave their countries for some reason or other. Of course, I hope your honor sees it that way too, as I do, and does not see it as an opportunity to do politics and look for false headlines. There are matters that undoubtedly require - and this is one of them - less headlines, which seems to be what you are looking for today, and more serious work, which is what the Government of Spain is doing. The other day we were represented all the countries of the Union in the JHA on 9 December. Many of the political groups in this House are represented in the governments of the different countries, and we all had the same objective, we all had the same goal. Therefore, lessons of solidarity and sensitivity for those who need it most, the People's Group will not receive much less from you. [[Applauds]] I insist, I do not want to set up a discussion on such a sensitive subject, but they will agree with me that in matters of solidarity it is not worth mixing another set of criteria. Why? Because it is important that we have seriousness and rigour and that we live up to what Spanish society demands of us all. I also tell you one thing, Your Honor, it is necessary and essential to fulfil the commitments made with our European partners and to work together to solve the problem. Do not have the slightest doubt - and we will thus report in this House, even in bilateral meetings that I am prepared to have with all the groups in this House - that Spain will continue to be proactive in the study and adoption of common proposals. Spain will live up to the circumstances but, above all, Spain and the Government of Mariano Rajoy will live up to the Spanish society, with the solidarity that always shows, that it is the solidarity that the Government of the People's Party will show. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA ON GOVERNMENT POLICY TO IMPLEMENT THE MEASURES RECENTLY APPROVED BY THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION TO ENCHANGE THE GLOBAL ENERGY TRANSITION TO CLEAN ENERGY. [[File number 172/000010]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u186	We turn to the next item on the agenda, an urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda, on the government's policy to implement the measures recently adopted by the European Commission to lead the global energy transition to clean energy. For your defence, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u187	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister - I was afraid that you would not come because I had not seen you all morning but in the end you are - we are here to talk about energy transition and yesterday at your appearance in the Commission there was talk about energy transition, renewable energy, self-consumption and European objectives. We all know that there are targets for 2020, 2030 and 2050 for emissions reduction, energy efficiency and renewable energy. Spain has also signed the commitments at the Paris Summit and the Marrakech Summit, and what we miss is the road map, the objectives that Spain has set itself, because we all know that they are objectives that each country can set freely. We want to know what that road map is. We were also talking yesterday, Minister, about the Energy Transition Plan, and we missed it. We have all been talking and we have not been able to get out what the road map is going to be in terms of energy planning or the Energy Transition Plan. We were also talking about that comprehensive planning cannot be made by 2050 because technologies need to be left open. Of course, but that does not mean, as we were also talking about yesterday, that we do not start doing our homework, that we do not start planning, always leaving room and space for the development of new technologies. All this I have just told you is also supported by the European directive of 30 November, which comes to talk about more renewables and less greenhouse gas emissions. The energy for citizens is a matter of state, which is why we must end the improvisation, not that of the outgoing government, of the incoming government or that of those who have been in the past, but the improvisation of state policies for the sole purpose of having an immediate political revenue. Spain raises doubts as to its guarantees in the field of energy policy, as to legal certainty and, in addition, it is the country that has the most complaints in international courts regarding the retroactivity that has been applied by a given legislation. I will quote the statements of a European Commissioner, Mr Arias Cañete, former minister of the People's Party, who also said that the irreversibility of the energy transition process is evident; that it must be carried out with greater generation of renewable sources and with greater energy efficiency. And he was talking about self-consumption, about self-consumption as the engine of the energy transition not only in this country but in Europe. That's why we have to talk about self-consumption - I guess I suppose -. The European Commission tells us that we have to regulate under non-discriminatory conditions. It tells us that the self-consumer has to be free of disproportionate charges and, in addition, urges us to pay the self-consumer at market price. I think we'll agree on this. Of course, when we come to Spain, we realize that what is said in Brussels breaks the Spanish reality, because in Spain the gestures that have been made have been that Royal Decree 900/2015, which is not that you have tried to castrate the self-consumers, but that you have tried to make them disappear, coming to ban even the collective self-consumption and creating that famous, known as the sun's tax, whose elimination, on the other hand, you yourself agreed with us in August; so I understand that, as your own word has signed that agreement, you will have no inconvenience in fulfilling it, because we have fulfilled that agreement and we are waiting to see if you too do so. In addition, the Government has established legislation that not only does not promote self-consumption, but limits it and, as I have already said, ends up being the system's remorse, the self-consumer's remorse. There is a broad consensus with all the political forces of the opposition, with which, Minister, the whole House will ultimately have to choose whether it wants a dialogue process to achieve effective regulation of self-consumption or, if on the contrary, it will have to move from the opposition. In the end, you will decide whether you want to dialogue or not. The government, and you, in particular, when they talk about self-consumption, they talk about elite. Which elite? Because the arguments are inaccurate. It must be said that the consumer contributes to the system as another consumer; in fact, he pays those fixed costs, that 75% of the electricity bill. Then the minister will come and tell us that we all want to raise the light less them, but it is clear that what has risen from the bill of light, that 75% of the fixed cost, has increased it even more than 30%. You have to be efficient, you have to bet on self-consumption. What good is it to all of us to detect efficient consumption patterns? What good is it to us all, Minister, that people try to reduce their consumption if, in the end, like the tailor box of the electric bill, they continue to increase fixed costs? It's exactly the same if we never turn on the light at home because, immediately, it's going to keep going up the receipt. Citizens don't know what they pay because no one has explained to them well what all that tailor drawer is, which is the bill for light. We have to start there. Yesterday we commented that an audit of that electrical bill is necessary. A collective, in this case self-consumption, is being discriminated against because the self-consumer is not a producer. If you at home have the privilege of having a garden and a beautiful orange, none of us, Your Honor, will think that you are a producer, that you are a farmer, because you only have one orange. Well, I understand, Your Honor, that because you have a photovoltaic plate in your house you can't be considered a producer either. Here we are not talking about elites; here we are talking about rights and that one cannot be catalogued. Besides, I'm not saying it. The European Commission says that an installation of less than 10 megawatts cannot be considered as a producer. With which, in the end, we are trying to mix themes to talk about what does not touch. We run into the Administration and we run into the bureaucracy, which some people, colloquially, may even call it a burocracy, because different aspects are laid down in the Administration so that facilities cannot be registered. The Administration has to function efficiently, and what it is doing with all this jamming that has been put in place is to prevent self-consumers from registering. There is one thing we very much agree on: there needs to be a record, because we need to know how much installed power is in the country. But what is not to be done is to put problems so that someone cannot declare the power he has installed, or try to put obstacles to him to decide to exhaust himself along the way and not end up installing his system. The Secretary of State for Energy, last year, also mentioned that self-consumption is not efficiency. I disagree, and since my formation we disagree because self-consumption, in the end, does what it does is to reduce the demand for energy generated by conventional sources. In other words, emissions are reduced. Just as Europe reduces 2% in generation emissions, Spain rises. Government data are: in 2014 Spain increases by 0.5%, in 2015 Spain increases by 3.2% in emissions per power generation. Mr Minister, we should perhaps consider that self-consumption is one more factor in moving towards this energy transition and reducing these emissions, because Spain is going in the opposite direction to the way the Community and the European Commission are doing. Europe says that self-consumption and energy efficiency are key to the energy transition process. I believe that most of your ladies and gentlemen share this view as well. What I don't understand and what citizens don't understand is the government's stubbornness to try to fence the field on this issue. We really don't understand. We all want the prices of light to fall, everyone, really. That's why we have to work together. And speaking of decentralized generation, more competition is created, with which there will be more players in the market and will be able to compete for a better price. It's market law, I'm not inventing it myself, I'm not inventing it Citizens. We hope that they will abide by that agreement, that they will feel, that we will talk about the sun's tax having to end. There is also one aspect that Citizens have made clear and that the Spanish Government has rejected, and it is the relationship or influence that self-consumption can have with vulnerable consumers, that much has been said about this these days. Countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom have legislated, have created programmes to favour vulnerable consumers through self-consumption. Why does Spain discard that option? Why does Spain prohibit this kind of generation? Why does Spain prohibit such convergence or dialogue between different ways of generating? Citizens are confident that Spain can lead the energy transition process. Not only does there have to be will; we have to want to do it. We have enough technology, we can bet on more smart cities, smart networks and something that the government seems to be afraid of, which is the decentralization of the generation. The sun tax must be abolished, the collective self-consumption approved, which is necessary, and above all the sources of dialogue with autonomous communities must also be established. It is necessary to encourage the distributed generation, and for that and not to clash with autonomous competences, it is necessary to encourage dialogue. I have plenty of time, but I think I have been quite concise and I want to close my speech with a literal phrase from European Commissioner Arias Cañete, who is from his party, who is from his background and who has been a minister of the outgoing Government. The phrase is as follows: Consumers are the real drivers of the energy transition process. They must have the capacity to generate their own energy and to distribute their surpluses to the network. I hope that you do not think differently when you are in Spain that when you travel to Brussels and that from today it is a reality that the sun tax in this country is over and that we start a road map towards the energy transition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Energy, Tourism and the Digital Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u189	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. He's dealt with a lot of issues. We spoke yesterday for five hours on these issues in the Committee, and I think it is good that we can make some of the points clear here in the plenary as well. He told me about what the energy transition is going to be like in Spain. He knows that we have to draw up the national plan, which is complex, and we will also have to do it on the basis of how the European Commission package is adopted, because what has happened is not a directive but merely the communication of a number of legislative and other packages that will have to be discussed at Council level and then with the European Parliament in co-decision. We will therefore have to look at the legislative process and at the same time draw up the national plan, which, as I told you yesterday, I understand that all political groups have an interest in collaborating, participating and having some kind of dialogue for this national plan. He has dealt with almost all his intervention on the issue of self-consumption. I think it is important to make a number of points, because I am essentially in agreement with what you have said, and what happens is that there are certain elements, concepts or mentions in which we would probably have a discrepancy. I think they're easy to solve, because it's about how things are explained. Firstly, in Spain it is clear that it can be a consumer and not a producer; in fact, we have two types of self-consumption: the supply with self-consumption, which has no producer characteristic - that is what is in force right now - and the production with self-consumption, which does have it; it pours into the net and charges. At the outset, we have established this, another issue is that we can modulate it or modify it according to what the directives tell us. He has quoted the agreement of the two formations. I also like to comply with the agreements; moreover, this agreement we made between you and me. It says literally: The difficulties that could exist will be eliminated - this is very important, because we have to look at whether or not they exist - to efficient electrical self-consumption - also very important is the efficient word, which essentially means one thing: that it does not add costs to the system or that some consumers do not transfer their costs to others. That is what at least I understand by efficient when I agreed with you - colloquially known as the sun tax, in order to promote a stable and conducive regulatory framework for small-scale generation. It seems to me that it is a good agreement, because it picks up the word 'there' - let's see what there is and what there is not - and, secondly, it speaks of the word 'efficient', which is what really matters. This is precisely what the European Commission has told us in its communication. He tells us: Non-discrimination, that everyone has the right to be able to sell. And it also tells us that the burdens have to be cost-related and proportionate. This is what really matters. This is reflected in the Commission's communication, but if we go to what the Council of European Regulators, the CER - so that we understand each other, the meeting of the NCMCs at European level - tells us more, because it has an action guide in good regulation of self-consumption, and in that guide it says several things. Firstly, self-consumers connected to the electricity grid must face the costs of the system, in the same way as consumers who rely exclusively on the grid for their energy supply. That is to say, we have to focus on financing the costs of the system, we have to pay for what we consume and do not consume, because it is the system that is at our disposal, and now I will talk about this. We have to put in the same position those who consume only from the network and those who have the capacity to self-consumption. The second thing that the Board of Regulators tells us is that perverse incentives and cross-subsidies between consumers should be avoided. In other words, it has to be avoided in the self-consumption angle that because of how it is defined or how it is established, some consumers end up paying the costs or costs of others. Thirdly, it tells us that the net balance must be avoided; we are understanding the net balance in physical terms. We agree perfectly with that, and even the European Commission has made it clear that if it is cheap to buy and sell at market prices, there is no problem. We don't have a problem with that either. Finally, a register of self-consumption facilities must be kept for many reasons, for the management of the system and also for safety reasons. We all understand that if for the boilers we have at the gas house there is a record and some inspections, the same has to be done in complex electrical installations, such as self-consumption. So what do we have to understand for proportional charges between those who consume only by pulling from the network, buying from the network, or those who have a greater complexity with a self-consumption installation? This is where I think maybe the argument I made yesterday didn't finish fine-tuning it properly. In the receipt of the light we pay two things: one, have an electrical system at our disposal. Obviously, although we do not consume electricity it costs money to have networks that reach our homes, it costs money to have the high voltage network and above all we are paying among all certain political decisions of the past. We are paying - I think reasonably well - territorial solidarity with those territories that have a very high cost to produce and generate electricity, which are essentially Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla, which, being separated from the peninsular territory, have a difficulty and pay exactly the same cost of electricity as the rest of the country. This costs about 1.8 billion euros, which we are all paying for. The first question is: should self-consumers participate in supporting extrapenisular energy, subsidizing, supporting the cost of energy in the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla? Should the self-consumers pay for this, yes or no? This is a very important question. The Government believes that, yes, we all who participate in the system must participate in this territorial solidarity. The second element we have is the debt that was generated in the electricity system because a strong tariff deficit was generated every year, which reached EUR 10 billion and generated a total debt of around EUR 30 billion. Should the self-consumers also participate in the payment of that debt, since in their day they were also agents who participated in a system that generated that debt? The Government is of the view that it does. Thirdly, the third element within these overall costs of the system is support for the fight against climate change and the payment of renewables premiums. You used to tell me that there should be no energy actions to get political revenue. What is meant by political revenue? For example, deploy immature technologies, too soon, which are very expensive. We may be faced with a case of this, depending on certain approaches, that technology is not yet mature enough and that some type of subsidy is being sought to install it. Should the self-consumers also pay the share we pay among all to fight climate change in renewables premiums? The Government is of the view that so too. Finally, should self-consumers pay for a network that is at their disposal, whether they use it or not, like the rest of consumers? I believe that in this everyone agrees, that the fixed parts of the system, the three that I have said on charges, that is, the extrapenisular solidarity, the support for renewables and the financing and amortization of the debt, together with the transport and distribution networks, all of this as a whole is what allows us all Spaniards to get home, turn on a switch and start to consume, but that costs money, costs about 18 billion euros. What's the matter? That this EUR 18 billion is not paid in full with the fixed part of the receipt. When we pay the monthly receipt, on the fixed part of the receipt we are not paying everything that allows the system to be running, that the system is there to be able to use it all of us. There are historical reasons for this, but essentially there are certain economic sectors - the regents, the seasonal hotels, certain industries that have a lot of seasonality - to which if they were made to pay 100 percent of the fixed cost of the system they would have a very serious problem of economic viability. You may think that no, that these kinds of industries and sectors pay a hundred percent on their fixed bill and, therefore, we would have no problem with what you call the sun tax. That would be true. If we raise the power term, if we raise the fixed part of the receipt to equal it to the general fixed costs of the system there would be no such thing as a sun tax, but we would deeply damage very deep-rooted and very important sectors in Spanish society and economy. That's an option. You will tell me: we want to abolish the sun tax. Yes, but then who pays that part of the fixed cost of the system that is being paid right now with the energy that is being consumed and not with the fixed part of the receipt? Who would pay for that part that self-consumers don't pay? Who would pay the share of renewables, of extrapenisulars, of debt amortization and of networks that self-consumers if they didn't have what you call the sun tax, the transitory charge, don't pay? Who would pay for it? That is the question that I would like to ask you, because if we do not want it to be paid through the fixed part of the receipt, we will cause tremendous damage to certain economic sectors and if not what we have to do is this compensatory charge, which, by the way, exists exactly the same in countries such as Denmark, Germany and Italy and in States so advanced in the deployment of renewables in the United States such as Nevada and Hawaii, for setting examples of countries that have done exactly the same. But what is more, if we do not put this so-called sun tax which compensates and equalizes the consumer who pulls the net in the payment of all the fixed costs of the system with the self-consumers, we would first of all fail to comply with the very rules proposed to us by the European Union, which says that there must be charges on the basis of the actual costs. Secondly, we would clearly fail to comply with the recommendation made to us by the Board of Regulators on what kind of regulation we have to do with self-consumption, because we would have certain consumers who do not participate 100%, whatever they should, in the financing of the fixed part of the system and are transferring it to other consumers. And then, who can do it? It's another interesting topic that you've also brought up. Who can do it? It can be done by those who can have many photovoltaic plates on their roof: large dwellings with a large roof area, large shopping centres or large industrial centres. Who can't do it? A small shop, a workshop or a small service facility, e.g. hospitality, that was inside the city. And of course the people who can't do it are the people who live in blocks of floors because they have very little roof and that little roof divided among several. I agree with you that there are things we can improve on self-consumption. For example, the possibility of aggregation needs to be improved, the possibility of storage can be regulated in a more benign way and we can also make some requirements for connections to existing facilities more flexible. By the way, getting discharged into the registry is getting on the Internet. It's putting the data from where the plate is, the name, and a little more. Being discharged into the registry is done in two minutes over the Internet. Simplification of measurement requirements for mid-power self-consumption facilities can also be done, as well as the flexibility of access and connection procedures for self-consumption facilities when they are not to have been poured into the network. All this can be done and we can also think that when we need to create new networks, when we need to take the system to an area that is not sufficiently covered, we might have to do a study to see if the self-consumption plus the deployment of a weak network comes out profitable. This is to be done and you are right that we can improve it; if a new installation with self-consumption and a weaker network, a less dense and therefore less expensive network, comes out much cheaper, we would be talking about what I told you before, efficient self-consumption. However, certain approaches are not efficient because they do not comply with what the Board of Regulators recommends, they do not comply with what the directive proposes and it transfers costs from one consumer to another, because only with the fixed part of the receipt one hundred percent of the fixed cost of the system is not paid, what we have to pay is consumed or not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u191	Minister, do you know why we always start wrong? On front pages like this I show you in which the former Secretary of State says that the self-consumers are the predators of the system. That is why we have the debates we are having today. It doesn't mean that it doesn't have to be done. Of course I understand that governing is not easy and there has to be a government, is there not? He talks about efficient self-consumption and tries to talk about maximalist theories saying that there are facilities in the houses that are not efficient; yesterday he also cited biarticulated facilities and with tracking sensors. I have to tell you that the efficiency of an installation is linked not only to hours of productivity, but also to transport. Many times a smaller system in a house with direct transport is far more efficient than a particular facility with transport losses. So we can't deduce that efficient self-consumption is just one typology and not another. Who's talking about grants here? No one here has talked about subsidies that I know of. Here it has been said that the sun tax has to be repealed; and I am grateful and pleased that it exists, because until a few months ago they did not recognize that it existed. No one's talked about subsidies. Here we're talking about letting them install and self-produce. He talked about practical cases and always gives us a lot of technical data and a lot of numbers to try to get lost in limbo. Let's set an example. Self-consumers pay the fixed cost, today they pay 70% of the fixed bill costs; and then we're going to go in and talk about whether you only pay what you said or the electric bill is a tailor's drawer, as I said before. A scaled installation according to the power you need has a self-consumption of 35 % of the energy that produces and acquires from the network 65 %, because, as you well know, the solar resource is what it is and there are periods of the day that do not have it. Perfect. In general terms, what these self-consumers would no longer contribute would be 10% of that 30% earmarked for consumption, i.e. EUR 25 million in total. You just said that the system is 18 billion euros. If we relate EUR 25 million to more than EUR 18 billion, I do not think that this is a powerful enough argument to say that self-consumers are endangering the stability of the system. And much less attempt to attribute responsibility to the self-consumers for the extrapenisular costs, renewables or harmful policies that have been made so far, because they have improvised and improvised all. There's nothing wrong with recognizing it. We are not here to continue talking about inheritance, as you do; we are here to give solutions to today's problems, because this problem did not exist twenty years ago. Moreover, when talking about extrapeninsulars I feel identified, because I am extrapeninsular, I am from the Canary Islands, and there it is difficult to generate four times more, because no energy policies have been implemented that bet on a renewable model, because diesel is being burned, because it is being contaminated, although we have all the natural resources possible to change the energy model. Since you care so much about extrapenisular costs, I also have to tell you that this royal decree penalizes the production of self-consumption desalination machines. What is the problem that they generate four times below the price that it costs to generate in the Canary Islands? What's the problem? I don't see it. We can decide to continue talking about inheritance, problems and differences between political parties, but we want to regulate self-consumption, to move towards an efficient model and, finally, Minister, to stop turning your back on Europe, which is what you are doing. We are ready to continue with this struggle and I believe that most of the parliamentary arc too. You decide whether you want to join and whether you want a consensus to emerge from this House or whether, on the contrary, you want it to be approved only from part of the House. In view of the statements made by your own party in Brussels and by your own European Commissioners, who have a tendency opposite to that of your party in this country, it is better that we feel like talking, that we try to reach common ground and, above all, that we do not continue with the demagogy trying to carry with responsibilities those of today for policies that went wrong yesterday. We must look to the future, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u193	Mrs. Rodriguez, you just told me, you just recognized me. With its figures, 25 million, although the ones we bargain for are substantially higher. Who would pay those $25 million? I mean, that which the self-consumers stop paying, which is everyone's system, to whom we endorse it, to the others, right? That's called cross-subsidy in engineering. If there are 25 million of the system - with its figures and its recognition - that are not paying the self-consumers and that are part of the financing of the whole system of everyone, who pays it? It's going to be paid for by those who can't self-consumption; that's right, you've recognized it yourself. And that today, with the level of self-consumption there is, and it will increase. So where does that figure come from? 250, 500, 1,000... how far do we get? How far do we produce this grant from one to another? It is not the sun's tax, but it is to prevent some consumers from receiving a subsidy from others. That is simply what it is, it is to balance one another, it is to comply with what you are telling us that we must do the Council of Regulators of the European Union when it comes to regulating this. You yourself have said this: there is this loss of funding by the system and by the fixed system as soon as there is self-consumption. We can do something else. It's not demagogic, it's just accounts, it's just technical analysis. You were saying it before. If we allow that part not to be financed, who will finance it? The European Union tells us that we must put consumers on an equal footing, not that the one who consumes himself over the one who does not consume himself must all be equal in contributing to the system. You're right when you say that self-consumption, when it's close, has the source of generation near the source of consumption, and we save ourselves distribution and transportation. Okay, but that's in case the network is going to get new, because if the network already exists, if the network was made available to everyone, to everyone, and it distributes electricity to all those in that area, whether they are self-consumers or not, they will have to pay for it among all and not one with more and one with less. It is very unfair an approach in which, as you say, other consumers pay 25 million to those who can consume themselves. It's not fair and it's not efficient, it is. On the other hand you say that we can check whether the office itself is excessive or not. That can be done, because it has to be a compensatory charge, and that is what European legislation itself is going to tell us, that it has to have merely a compensatory effect, an effect to avoid discrimination, to avoid inequalities between different consumers and between different non-consumers. Can consumers be grouped together in order to have a more concentrated offer? It can also be done. It is true that today the royal decree prohibits it, but this has to be reviewed in the future. Which is a subject we have to work on. Now, understand me, whether it is a larger or smaller amount, I do not think it is appropriate for some consumers to pay part of the fixed cost of the system to others, I do not think it is appropriate for you to say that it is the figure, which is not so small and could be substantially higher. [[The lady]] Frankly, Mrs. Rodriguez, you've already given me the argument. I'm not going to go deeper on him anymore. If we have the problem that some consumers are going to pay what belongs to others we will have to avoid it and we will have to compensate it. [[Denial]] I do not know why you say no, if you have just told me that this figure exists, precisely because the fixed part of the receipt does not pay one hundred percent of the fixed cost of the system; it is so clear, it does not pay. We could do this, there are people who think that we should raise the fixed part of the receipt to be equivalent to that EUR 18 billion fixed cost of the system. There are people who think this; now, explain that to the regents, explain it to the ski resorts, explain it to a peat or ice cream industry, which have a very strong seasonal operation. I think it is very difficult to explain to you that because we do not want to make a regulation that equals some consumers with other self-consumers the only way to prevent this inequality from occurring is for us to substantially raise the fixed part of the receipt, so that there is no such possibility of subsidy between them. Frankly, it seems to me to be a very bad solution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u194	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u195	We then proceeded to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals that could not be heard at the Tuesday session. I would remind you that the vote will take place at tomorrow's sitting. First of all, it is appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken to alleviate the worrying increase in alcohol consumption among minors. [[EAJ-PNV]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the parliamentary group responsible for the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u196	Thank you, Madam President. I go up to the stand to defend the motion following the inquiry that my group made last week to the Minister of Health, following the worrying problem that has occurred, among other things because last November 2 a younger than twelve years died in a hospital as a result of an ethyl coma. We've had more cases, on November 27th we knew that another under thirteen years of age was still in serious condition for suffering from an ethyl coma after a bottle. These two data are obviously two tips of iceberg, but they show us that this case is more than random, that unfortunately we have a reality, and it is that for some years now we have witnessed an increase in the consumption of large alcohol intakes in minors, concentrated in a short period of time to reach quickly a high level of drunkenness. Unfortunately this is the reality. We therefore present this question by asking the Minister to do something from the legislation in the area she is responsible for, that the Government move and promote a law that can set out measures and guidelines to eradicate this problem. The data of minors admitted, which in each autonomous community are increasingly, an increase in alcohol consumption among children who are out of control, and the absence of a state legal framework in this area, are the basis for us to introduce this motion. We set as an example last week in our intervention the Addictions Act which was adopted in Euskadi last year, and which the Government, which claims to defend this matter, has resorted to. One more she's having recourse. We hope that at some point this issue will be solved and unblocked, because the fact is that a law so advanced, so progressive, that it marks guidelines that no one has dared to mark in this matter, as is the Law of Addictions of Euskadi, the Spanish Government has resorted to it. Once again a contradiction. In any case, we set it as an example because in that law we can appreciate steps and progress in the areas of publicity, control, etc., which we believe could be valid for a legislative framework of the State in the area under its jurisdiction. And the minister in the interpellation committed herself, and not only that, but she did something like that to tell me that she loved that she made this interpellation because she was going to take out the gift she had prepared. And what was that? When she was told that last year Minister Ana Mato announced that she was going to prepare a law on this matter, and that we had come here because we had not heard anything else about that law, the current Minister said that they were not actually able to do it but now she was going to do it. I'm actually glad, and I believe it because the minister has said that she's going to do it and in the terms that she's going to do it. We have tabled this motion with four points, which are very simple and very clear. On the one hand, we believe that the priority axis of the ministry in this matter must be discussed in the interterritorial council, which is the forum where they must deal with this matter which they have never dealt with so far - which we were very surprised at. We also believe that within a maximum of six months, with a consensus with the social partners and in collaboration with the autonomous communities, a multidisciplinary report must be produced on common bases - and fixed with the autonomous communities, as I said - on alcohol consumption in young children, and this report must be submitted to these Courts. As a third point, we believed that, as a result of this diagnosis, it was time to present a bill to Congress with the aim of reducing alcohol consumption in minors, which, with scrupulous respect for competences, includes, among other things, measures to prohibit or limit the advertising of alcohol, both directly and indirectly, in mass media throughout the territory of the State and on social networks. Finally, we said that, in parallel, tough shock campaigns - as they have been carried out in other areas and which have been so successful - must be carried out in order to raise awareness of the risks of alcohol consumption in minors. This is what we have presented. We have had an amendment to the Asturias Forum, which we are grateful for and which we are going to accept, in which it is said that the good work done in the Committee on Drugs must be incorporated, given the importance of it. The People's Party has introduced others to us, and at first we believe that they do not bring anything substantial that is no longer in the motion we have tabled. Moreover, not only do they not bring anything higher, but they omit issues that are fundamental to us. Why do you not want this subject to be incorporated into the interterritorial council? Why don't you want the report to be done? Why do you not think that it is necessary to be so explicit when it comes to asking for a ban on advertising, as I said, in written media and social media? Why don't you explain if that's what we want? We do not doubt the commitment of the Government, but we do not believe that it contributes anything that does not include the original motion and we will defend it in its entirety. My group therefore calls for the confidence of the House and support for this motion in order to be able to have a law that from the state level creates a framework of limitations in various areas that are not the competence of the autonomous communities, with the aim of reducing the serious problem of alcohol consumption among minors. If we really want a society with a healthier, more creative, more participatory youth, and in the most free background, we must offer the conditions so that this is the case, conditions of leisure, etc., that do not make the central axis of leisure in youth and in minors alcohol. We cannot therefore base the leisure of youth on the mere fact of abusive alcohol consumption, and if that is so, if that finding is indeed so, something fails and we will be responsible for its consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Uresti. In defence of the amendments put forward by the parliamentary groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am glad that there are some young spectators in the rostrum this morning, because this matter is on the right path to our youth. The spokesman for the Basque Parliamentary Group has certainly raised a matter of great concern. In Spain, the number of minors who consume alcohol continues to increase and the age of incorporation into the consumption of graded drinks, as well as other psycho-addictive substances, is decreasing. It is therefore a matter of urgency to try to reduce children's access to alcoholic beverages, to rate their onset in their consumption in order to protect their health, and to prevent early consumption as a result of a lack of real perception of risk from subsequent addiction or dependence. Ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of increased consumption of alcohol and other drugs among children, adolescents and young people is not new and has been the subject of wide parliamentary attention in recent years; indeed, the General Courts have already worked specifically on this issue through the Joint Congress-Senate Commission for the Study of the Drug Problem, and it should be noted that on the harmful effects of drugs on the health of our young people there is even a very interesting specific report, which was drawn up by a paper created in the VIII Legislature in 2007, a report which is of great relevance and which keeps the entire force. That is why I have tabled an amendment to the initiative of the Basque Parliamentary Group, which Mr Agirretxea Urresti has announced that he will accept, which I thank him for. It is an added point to the text of the original motion that highlights the work of our predecessors in the Courts, because it is efficient to take advantage of the extraordinary parliamentary work that has been done in this area, backed by magnificent experts, and to take into account recommendations made and adopted unanimously. It is important to revalue the great work carried out in a matter such as that of the harmful effects of drugs on the health of young people, because we would be miserably wasting the time and resources of the Spaniards if we limited ourselves to creating commissions and study papers, quoting dozens of extraordinary participants and then taking an immediate expiration date to their conclusions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u199	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. I now give the floor to Mr Miquel i Valentí, also on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u200	Thank you very much. It is true that the situation is not serious, but very serious, not only for these two cases which the initiative envisages, but for this 30% of children under 15 who claim to have tried alcohol and who consume it frequently, or 51% of young people under 17 who claim to have tried it and who consume it frequently. The idea has been put in place among young people that drugs and tobacco are bad, and it is true, and it has not been possible to do enough pedagogy to also consider alcohol as one of those products that causes discomfort and harm to their health. That is why Catalan laws have always been aimed at teaching and not at banning for banning. This is what I'm going to talk about. If it is true that this initiative makes it very clear that the competence of the autonomous communities and of the ministry must be clearly defined, it is like giving the keys to a professional thief and asking him not to rob you at home, because we know that the minister and the government are experts among other things in invading areas of competence, with which if something concerns us about this initiative is not its original meaning or that we do not share the need to do more pedagogy among the young people of this country, so that the consumption of alcohol among minors will decrease, but give the minister the possibility to interfere in the competences of the Catalan autonomous community or of the Generalitat of Catalonia to destroy once again a line of flotation that is correct, that is working for us and that makes today in Catalonia the index of consumption among minors is lower than the state average. That is why we are concerned about this initiative, because we know that the Minister is an expert, as is the Government, in invading the competence of the Generalitat, as is also the case in other communities or in other territories of the State. That is why our vote will be abstaining, not because of the meaning of the text, but because of the concern that the minister can continue to interfere with the policies of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. I now give the floor to Mrs Romero Rodríguez, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that this group agrees with the purpose of the motion, and this was raised by the minister in the debate on the inquiry. The Government intends to make a bill to prevent alcohol consumption in minors; we want zero alcohol consumption in minors. We have tabled amendments to try to enrich and focus the matter a little bit on the motion. Firstly, the first amendment is to highlight the work already done. This has been commented by the spokesperson for Forum Asturias, and it has been said that the amendment will be accepted, because previous work has already been done in the Drug Action Plan 2013-2016. There is a fairly advanced draft project and a great deal of work has been done on the part of this Government. Another amendment is to focus on it, because the relevant body is the Sectoral Conference of the National Drug Plan, and that is why the amendment is being proposed. The will is to process the bill with all possible consensus, with the autonomous communities, with the municipalities, with all the sectors affected, and of course within the Joint Congress-Senate Commission where great work has already been done to enable all political groups and all sectors to contribute. In the third amendment we withdraw the six-month deadline, because we believe that delaying the law with the data we have on the table would not be good. The minister gave a detailed explanation of these results and of the annual survey that has existed since 2011. The last one told us that 68% of young people had consumed alcohol in the last month. We are not about to delay six months, we have data, and the government delegate on drugs has come to explain them to this House. The data are on the website, are public; even the autonomous communities have data. Health services also exist in my autonomous community and we know them, we must act now. But we want a regulatory project that is everyone's and has everyone's. The fourth amendment sought to broaden the objective of action and promote consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the punitive issue; we are talking about awareness, awareness, zero tolerance, and we know that there is tolerance today. It is surprising that only one punitive measure is cited. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who have had responsibilities in local corporations, who have faced the problem of botellon, telebotellon - which there are many minors - on the street, who have seen problems of health, security, coexistence, we know that many laws, many ordinances and many measures have not served, even if they contained punitive measures. In prevention, awareness is the axis, but we have to be all involved, all the autonomous communities, respecting of course the competition areas, and the local corporations that also have them. We must address an objective that must be zero alcohol consumption in minors. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may say so, we can do it with tobacco. I remember when I was a teenager riding a bus I found people smoking; nowadays it is unthinkable in a public service. If that has been achieved, it can be achieved among all with alcohol. This is an objective that we have, and that the minister is very clear that we must fulfil. Is it a problem of legislation or is it a problem of compliance? It is to involve each and every person in society. The last amendment was intended precisely to clarify the Government's commitment. As there was a budget and budget allocation for this year, this government was making it very clear that it wanted to make the law with everyone, and that it was committed to making it effective and real, and that is why we put its budget allocation in 2016. I hope that the request made with our amendments, as I have explained, will be reconsidered. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero Rodriguez. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and especially to Mr Agirretxea, who is presenting us with a proposal that is largely based on the government's impediment to the Basque Government's move towards a much more interesting law, I fear, than can be done in this House, if done. If there is something positive in teenagers, among many positive things they have - the young people here today are not teenagers - it is their sincerity and what abhors hypocrisy. They have like a radar that finds the hypocrite with amazing ease. In this country, wine is considered not as a drug, but as a cultural fact. Do you remember 'Long live wine'? Fortunately, the second part was left, which was also common, very recently. 'Long live wine'. I've been teaching for many years, and I've always considered that the best way to teach is by example. That's why when teenagers separate from adults, they suddenly realize - they were children - that the full and complete example of adults has contradictions. Welcome is to be told. I really like working with teenagers because they force you to question that conservative feeling that we all have when we're older. The Basque Country - and Catalonia too - has made good cross-sectoral, educational, health programs, and we continue with the same problem. It may not be the responsibility of the Minister of Health alone, it may be the cultural competence of this House to say: why don't we set an example, why don't we explain that alcohol is a drug. A few years ago, when in Girona City Hall I was responsible for social policies, the Spanish Federation of Spirit Drinks came - you know this from the companies now of being co-responsible - and proposed to me a program that many municipalities have made, the program of the sober driver. The alternative was not for young people to get drunk, but for one to be sober to drive the car. Great. I said, "When at least I get two sobers, maybe we'll talk, at least two, please." And that's where we're at. I have no doubt that in a few years' time a Member will come up - I hope, among us, that he is not from the Republican Left because we already have a state of our own - and he will say to them: We must do something because teenagers drink a lot. You don't get miracles and politics from what I see less. Things are achieved by doing them little by little, evaluating them and making us all responsible for the projects. Of course, many things can be done, of course better public health can work on health prevention and promotion, which is the first thing to be cut in the programmes. Of course you can improve the work of many municipalities. In Girona we have the Municipal Health Promotion Team, we have the Youth Health Center, which as I gave free condoms I was accused of sex, drugs and rock and roll. [[Laughter]] You already know that some people find it difficult to use the word condom, but not because they have no problems. This happens a lot in Spanish politics, I don't talk about the problem and the problem doesn't exist. What you close with a door, enters through a window, and the windows in democracy, right, are big and they stay big for a long time. Finally, friends and fellow Members of Parliament, with regard to these good purposes, recently heard a Minister of the Interior talk about feelings. A minister of the interior talking about feelings! It's good to practice them, too. [[The Lord]] If we tell young people, friends and friends who are here, not to drink, why don't we apply it? Because yesterday... It's true. [[Laughter]] Yesterday, perhaps, was a day of cunning. It is already known that there may be confirmation of the rule, but something we will have to do, because in democracy there are windows and we are in a cave where they seem not to see us, but they see us all god. Friends and friends, health and Republic! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u205	Thank you, Mr. Olòriz. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Millán Salmerón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us here in this Parliament and in society as a whole have been impressed to learn of the death of a girl under 12 years of age because of an ethyl coma. But the saddest thing is that, unfortunately, this news will be repeated again if no action is taken in this House. According to the latest official data from the National Drug Plan, which was in 2012, the last year studied, more than half of the sixteen-year-olds have been drunk in the last year, but one in three young people has done so in the last month. And with regard to the pattern of alcohol consumption at the time, which consists of ingesting four or more alcoholic beverages in a short period of time, or at once, with the aim of getting drunk, it is frightening to see that half of the 17-year-olds have practiced it in the last month. According to the Ministry of Health, the latest scientific research has shown that alcohol consumption in adolescence, especially in the form of hoarding, can affect the nervous system, limiting its individual potential and its future. And as a result, there are alterations in personal relationships, in school performance, violent behaviors and behaviours dangerous to health, such as risky sexual practices or driving under the effects of alcohol. Given these facts, and given the diversity of problems associated with alcohol, the Citizen Parliamentary Group will support the motion put forward by the Basque Parliamentary Group. We believe that comprehensive action is needed to reduce the harmful use of alcohol by young people. In this way, we will also put an end to the current situation of legislative dispersion. In this document, which is the state legislation on the prevention of alcohol in young people, it can be seen that there are 17 state regulations, ranging from the Law on Citizen Security to the General Law on Advertising. [[shows a document]] It is therefore absolutely necessary to unify all these laws and implement others in one. With regard to all that said, the truth and truth is that the Government, when it has had an absolute majority, has done absolutely nothing to remedy it. But in this legislature the Citizens Parliamentary Group will work to defend the need to prevent the sale of alcohol to minors, as well as to create and support alcohol-free environments for young people or to promote healthy alternatives so that young people, in their leisure time, can carry out other practices other than the bottle. Our young people can have fun and can enjoy themselves without needing to get drunk, without needing to put their lives at risk, even if there is some parliamentary group in this House, in particular the Parliamentary Group of Podemos, who does not understand it. And I say that you do not understand it because the solution you raise to the problem is to encourage it. How? In this way: inaugurating the international botellodrome. [[shows a photocopy]] Is this the way you have to solve the problems of young people in Spain? [[Applauds]] We are not facing a game, we are facing a real problem and, as such, we consider it necessary to include in the national pact for education the measures necessary to raise awareness among young people of the magnitude of this problem. Finally, the rule adopted in this House must contain the basic rules to be applied throughout Spain. There cannot be seventeen rules, seventeen different strategies to tackle a common problem, a problem that affects all young people in Spain, regardless of whether they live in Valencia, Madrid or Seville. So, from the Citizen Parliamentary Group we have the firm will and commitment to work and prevent alcohol consumption among minors, to raise awareness among Spanish society of the danger of alcohol abuse and to limit the access of children and young people to alcohol. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we owe it to Laura. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs Millán Salmerón. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vila Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u208	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that the motion brought to us by the Basque Nationalist Party is important because the actual consumption of alcohol by young people, and especially among minors, is a very complex and generally rather neglected reality in our country. This topic often becomes a subject of political agitation because of the publication of an annual study with data or, which is more serious and worrying, when dramatic events occur that we all regret. The problem is that it becomes an act of political agitation of limited duration; it is strictly limited to the same time as it attracts interest in the media. When people are alarmed and affected by this issue, it is when political leaders rush to announce their concern about the issue and to proclaim easy solutions, half-measures and new laws. Minister Montserrat is not the first woman to do this. In 2013, as the spokesperson of the proposing group pointed out, the then Minister of Health, Ana Mato, announced a law on the prevention of alcohol consumption in minors. Today, three years later and three Ministers of Health of the People's Party later, one minor has had to die and another one of gravity has to be admitted so that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, can speak again about the issue we are discussing today. I am not going to repeat the data that the Basque Group's proposal contains and that some of the speakers who have spoken before me have already pointed out. I will highlight one thing that I think is obvious, but it is not obvious that it is no longer relevant. These data, which draw a very worrying reality, are a direct consequence of the negligent management by those who have been at the head of the Ministry of Health and also of the People's Party, which has held Mrs Ana Mato for too long; a lady with a service sheet at the head of the health portfolio who has put us at constant risk. By listing some of the things that have put us at risk for all Spaniards: the disastrous management of the Ebola crisis, the increase in alcohol consumption among minors, the weakening of the National Plan on AIDS or the withdrawal of the health card for immigrants; measured the latter, by the way, that besides being xenophobic, unjust and unjustifiable, poses a great risk to public health in our country. The survey on the use of drugs in secondary education in Spain shows that the difference between minors who get alcohol by themselves and those who get it through other older people does not reach 5%. The perceived availability between alcohol and tobacco is the same, despite the more severe restrictions on tobacco. On the contrary, other relevant variables are ignored, such as the differential of consumption by gender, being more acute in women. It seems obvious that we are not going to achieve significant decreases in the consumption of alcohol in minors if we do not address it from the reality that young people live in our country. If this law is not accompanied by social awareness plans in all areas, specific educational plans and new forms of alternative leisure, we will not make progress. Nor will we have any positive results if we do not follow the studies that say that the best preventive mechanism is to make our young people clear about their future work and work. The Drug Aid Foundation, among others, shows that, with greater social integration, lower alcohol consumption among young people and also among minors. To eradicate this problem, therefore, it is also essential to put an end to the policies of the People's Party in the economic and labour fields that offer a single perspective to young people, namely unemployment, precariousness, poverty or exile. We also believe that it is important to reverse cuts, privatizations and rising rates of education because they drive thousands of young people out of the education system, who cannot afford their studies, which has a negative impact on integration and therefore poses a high risk when young people are involved in alcohol and other drug use. Alcohol consumption is a legal and socially tolerated activity, so it is naive to think that the problem can be combated and eradicated only by establishing a mere legal barrier to consumption and more or less effective barriers to its access. I do not say that these measures are not necessary, and what I intend to make clear is that they alone are not going to eradicate the problem definitively. The adoption of a law, and less so when it tries to modify social behaviors through multiple and complex factors, does not change social habits per se. Without a change in social awareness, in the consumption habits of minors and beyond minors, without an offer of alternative leisure and the guarantee of a future worthy of young people, the grandiose announcements of laws and campaigns in the media and social networks will be insufficient and therefore ineffective in achieving the objectives we pursue with this motion. Having said that, from the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Communos Podemos-En Marea we believe that the proposal of the Basque Group is on the right track and we share the four points proposed in the motion. That is why we are voting in favour of it. However, we know and therefore note that the adoption of this initiative alone is not going to be the definitive solution to the problem. It is a step in the right direction, but it will not be the solution if we do not act in other areas, with special emphasis on prevention education in the face of prohibition or punishment. I'm done, President. We hope that the new Minister of Health will fulfil the commitment she has made here in this House, and once this motion is approved, it will get to work on the line of consensus she has promised, even if the President of the Government to which she belongs has already said that he does not intend to comply with what Parliament approves, unless he has a legal obligation. This means that from the government they may have the intention or temptation to put this initiative in the drawer of oblivion. If that were to happen, we will be here to remind you of your democratic obligation to this House, your ethical duty and your political responsibility. And if these arguments are not enough for the People's Party, we will work on a bill that this House will pass and the government will have no choice but to comply, as we have already done with the interprofessional minimum wage and we will certainly do with this and other laws of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u209	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Florez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u210	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the perception of the risk to minors of alcohol consumption is not low, it is nil, and the perception of the damage that it can cause to them is reduced mainly to the realm of public order, noise and cleanliness. Until all the alarms have been dropped due to different episodes of hospital emergency related to the intensive consumption of alcohol by boys, no longer adolescents, but by girls in this case, it has not begun to become aware, albeit slow, that the consequences of alcohol use and abuse by minors do not appear only in the long term, but are immediate and very harmful both to the consumer and to third parties and that this is a major public health social problem. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem of conscience and conscience, healthy habits and responsibility. The Basque Parliamentary Group, to which we are grateful to bring this initiative to the House, proposes to us in its motion - what progress my group will support - to draw up a report and a subsequent bill with different measures, but it turns out that there is part of the core of the issue that you do not include in the text of the motion and that however it is very relevant, as it is nothing more and nothing less than prevention. We must allocate funds and bet on prevention and, within this population group, on school prevention. This is what must have a real reflection on the General Budgets of the State, and not just the campaigns. There is one thing we should not forget, and it is that young people make decisions. Both access to and sale of alcohol in this population and exposure to advertising to which minors are subject can and should be effectively regulated. All this is important and must be done, but we cannot forget that minors finally make their own decisions, and since they will decide, they must be backed by adequate personal competence. This is achieved only by structured and integrated projects within school curricula, with real support, with serious levels of coordination in the health, educational and family fields, and since the beginning of schooling, not at the age of fourteen, when they have already been exposed to consumption, and not only with non-specific and timely prevention, which are fireworks, and it is not basically selective prevention, because, in the face of alcohol, we are all vulnerable. This is nothing other than the approach for which professionals working in the field of drug dependence with minors have fought for years. And of what I speak to you, of prevention, of creating awareness, of increasing resistance, it appears in all strategies, in all plans and, however, it is not giving the expected results, because there has been no commitment, because it has not been dealt with seriously and forcefully. And why? Because until 2011 there was a continuity of action, there was a clear and coordinated programme between the State and the autonomous communities against drug use, but this which happened until 2011 has been broken by the deep cuts made in these four years and which have mainly affected prevention and research: 40% reduction in budgets in prevention programmes compared to 2011, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have changed minors by budgetary adjustment. There is a need for a law aimed at reducing alcohol consumption in minors and which is firmly committed to both supply control and prevention, because although the results will come in the medium or long term, the latter can be the way to end what is called normalization and banalization of consumption and be the way to ensure that when minors are adults - because we want them to reach adults and healthy - they continue to have the skills and competences to make responsible use of alcohol, let us not forget that it is the gateway to other substances and other addictions. By the way, Mr Agirretxea, you mentioned the subject of citizenship education the other day, but the People's Party bothered him on the curriculum and considered it irrelevant. It is clear that, for both this and other purposes, this matter must come back and be strengthened. School and, of course, family, because, for a lot of campaign and a lot of publicity control, we must not forget that the model for one or a lesser twenty-four hours a day and three hundred sixty-five days a year is their family. However, we have reason for hope. We also have a significant percentage of young athletes, volunteers, artists, committed people and even young people interested in politics who are engaged in other activities and who understand that alcohol is not healthy, that there is no need to make excessive consumption of alcohol. They must be our model and the model for other young people. Finally, I conclude by pointing out that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the motion of the Basque Parliamentary Group by being in line with other initiatives put forward by our group for its debate in the Joint Committee on Drug Studies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Florez Rodriguez. For the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Agirretxea Urresti whether your group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u212	Yes, Mr. President. We will accept the amendment to Foro Asturias, which will be incorporated as a fifth point in the motion tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. We take note of that acceptance. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the replies of the Government of Spain to the 46 items adopted on 20 April by the President, Mr Puigdemont. [[HOMS LORD]] [[File number 173/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u214	We turn to the following point: Motion following urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the replies given by the Government of Spain to the forty-six issues raised on 20 April by President Puigdemont. [[Mr. Homs]] For the initiative group, Mr Homs Molist has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the proposal we are making is seemingly modest and simple: it consists of the creation of a parliamentary committee to address the referendum that Catalonia is proposing with vast, vast majority. I say it is seemingly modest and simple because, come to know!, we are also committing at this time an act of disobedience or rebellion. A few minutes ago we learned that the Constitutional Court has suspended the resolutions of the Parliament of Catalonia which partly inspire this proposal that we are making. These resolutions said, among other things, the following: in fact, that is what we are debating today: to promote parliamentary initiatives with the Spanish State to make possible the holding of a referendum, which is what we propose to do to them. This is what was voted in the Parliament of Catalonia and now it seems, from the news we have a few minutes ago, that the Constitutional Court has suspended it, so I do not know, Mr President, whether we are committing an act of rebellion when talking about these matters. Just like in a few months we ended up doing some sort of general supplication for disobeying the sacrosanct Constitutional Court on these issues, but you know that I can provide you with information, give you details on how this is dealt with in the supplications. In any case, in the context in which we are discussing this initiative today, I want to tell you - as my political group, the Catalan European Democratic Party, feels - that we are happy. We already know what the outcome of this vote will be. It is you, constitutionalists, constitutionalist political groups, so predictable, so conservative, who have a level of fear of addressing the Catalan question of such a caliber that we already know the result. It is clear that I am not happy for this reason, but it is for which I am concerned and most - I say it with all due respect - that it is that, for the first time in this House, the majority of the Members who come from Catalonia, from the Principality, will vote in favour of a referendum. It is important that this should happen, have value and should suggest some reflection. Addressing the referendum that has taken place since Catalonia is nothing but a commitment to put democracy as a solution and not as a problem. A referendum presupposes not one solution or another, but dialogue, asking and listening. I repeat, dialogue, ask and listen. A referendum leads to this; it does not presuppose a solution or another, but is willing to really dialogue, ask, listen and then act accordingly. The question we ask them is what they're afraid of. What are you afraid of? My impression is that they are afraid of real dialogue, of asking and of listening, because you know what happens? They don't seem to be able to convince in Catalonia. This is the impression that gives us for the way they act. Do you really believe that with courts and impositions you will stop a democratic lawsuit? The courts are, or should be, to judge criminals and corrupts, and not to judge democrats who try to promote democracy, the pure exercise of democracy through, for example, a referendum. This is going to happen this week with Carme Forcadell, to whom we give our absolute support. To pretend to bring before the courts the president of the Parliament of Catalonia for having sponsored a debate similar to what we have here today is such a caliber, is to be so out of the rule of law and democratic state that you should deserve some kind of reflection. Please note, both the People's Party and the Citizens' Party and the Socialist Group, what kind of amendments have been tabled to this proposal. I insist, modest and simple proposal, apparently. The amendments they have tabled are basically that there is no Commission and that there is no talk of a referendum. That is, not to speak, because a Commission allows us to speak, dialogue, trade and exchange positions; nothing, we do not want to formalise the famous dialogue. And much less the referendum, because this would ultimately require asking, and as the questioner can hear according to what answers, I tell you that, in our opinion, they are afraid of what the answer in Catalonia might be. I was told by a constitutional spokesman, whom I personally appreciate, if I would give them a lot of cane. He's asked me in private before - and I don't think this will violate any conversation - will you give us a lot of cane? And I said no. If we don't have to give them cane, because you give it to them yourself. To convince in Catalonia we don't need to give them cane, already you do it alone. We'll just take care of the advice Rajoy gave us yesterday. The president of the government yesterday gave us advice in his appearance in the Senate and said he literally invited us to flee from those who want to end everything, from extremists and from those who seek confrontation. That's what we're trying to do and we're going to do, in fact, in Catalonia. We will flee from those who want to end everything - from language to so many other things that are main, that we want and appreciate in Catalonia and that we are willing to share - and from extremists, because you, lords of the People's Party, and said with all due respect, act many times, too many, as authentic extremists. Obviously we will also flee from those who simply seek confrontation and who, not knowing how to convince, want to overcome through the courts and the impositions. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Homs. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Villegas Pérez is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Homs, you made an inquiry at the previous plenary session - I read the title - into the Government's replies to the forty-six issues raised by the President of the Generalitat. Mr. Homs, you're very predictable too. Of the forty-six subjects he logically cares only one and in the subsequent motion that he now presents to us there is only one topic, its monotheme, independence, the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain. It's very predictable, Mr. Homs. We didn't expect any surprises in that sense. We did not expect you in your motion to incorporate your concerns about autonomous financing, infrastructure, dependency, social services, health or education. The truth is, we weren't expecting it. We knew - you are very predictable - that the monotheme was to be that of independence. You ask in your speech what makes us afraid of all this process, as you call it. Well, we're afraid of politicians who think they're above the law and the courts, Mr. Homs. That scares the Democrats. [[Applauds]] You present this motion under that title which announced forty-six themes and which have been reduced to one, to the monotheme. It is a very simple motion in which I would distinguish three points: one, the diagnosis: the fault of everything is the Constitutional Court; another, which wants to create a forum for dialogue, and another, to talk about its monotheme, the independence of Catalonia through the referendum, which is the tool you want to use now. You do not even think of the referendum as an end in itself, but for you the referendum is a tool for independence. We all know - they have written it - that they have other tools, such as unilateral declaration, and they choose one or the other according to the moment. I insist that you raise these three issues. We do not agree with either of the three, indeed. We do not agree that the blame is on the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has the task of ensuring that neither you, nor I, nor the President of the Generalitat, nor the President of the Government, nor this House, nor the Parliament of Catalonia, fail the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has the function of guaranteeing to the Spaniards that no politician will miss the Constitution and, therefore, in its day the Constitutional Court acted before the chapuza of the Statute of Catalonia and has also acted today because, as I said before, no politician can be believed to be above the laws or the courts. Then they talk about creating another dialogue forum. Why are we going to create another dialogue forum? There are already forums for dialogue, but it is that you renounce to attend, renounce to dialogue, do not want to go to the Conference of Presidents. Mr. Puigdemont said he's not going. Why do we want to create another dialogue forum if you have already given up using the dialogue forums that exist, Mr Homs? Finally, what are we going to talk about in that dialogue forum that you want to create? The independence, its mechanism for achieving independence, the referendum. That's an illegal mechanism, it's not the way. You have to abide by the Constitution just like all of us, you have to abide by the laws and seek reform of the mechanisms that we have equipped all Spaniards to regulate the framework of our relations. Within that debate and that possible constitutional reform that is being discussed in this House, everyone will be able to express how he believes that reform can be, where it has to go, but outside those legal mechanisms, outside those reform mechanisms, there is nothing, there is no democracy, because there is no democracy without a legal framework that guarantees it, Mr Homs. Democracy is not just about putting the ballot boxes, democracy is about ensuring the legal framework that we have all the Spaniards. You have long abandoned your obligation to defend the interests of Catalans. You have long abandoned your obligation to worry about health, to worry about Catalan infrastructure, to worry about funding, to worry about Catalan social services. You have long abandoned that which was your obligation and now want to deceive us with a motion that has a title that does not correspond to its content. But, Mr. Homs, you no longer deceive or convince, you wanted to make an autonomous plebiscite election and you lost it. You don't convince most Catalans, Mr. Homs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u218	Thank you very much, Mr Villegas. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Batet Lamaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Homs, I want to start by telling you that you are not clear. What I don't know is why it's not clear; I don't know if he doesn't know what he wants or wants contradictory things. On the one hand, you apparently want us to spend time, interest, and effort in this House to talk about the forty-six issues that Mr Puigdemont, President of the Generalitat, has put to the President of the Government, but at the same time he is presenting us with a motion that is devoted exclusively to one of these forty-six points, the content of which goes hand in hand with the creation of a committee on the Catalan question to speak exclusively about the holding of a new illegal referendum in Catalonia. Does that seem like a clear approach to you? Do you think this is a coherent approach? From our point of view it is inconsistent, at least for two reasons. The first is because it obvious forty-five out of forty-six points. Where are the autonomous financing, the Mediterranean corridor, investments, neighbourhoods, scholarships, refugees, the excessive conflict that the Spanish Government has effectively exercised against Catalan rules? Where are those forty-five themes? But there is a second inconsistency, which from my point of view is perhaps even more serious, and is that the only point that remains in the motion is that they are going to resolve it at a meeting on 23 December, convened unilaterally also in Catalonia. Do you think that you respect this House, that you respect the representatives of the citizens and therefore the citizens themselves for the fact that they are proposing to set up a committee that will meet with a determined subject, with the decision of a break-up at a meeting in Catalonia on 23 December? I ask you with all honesty, Mr Homs, I repeat, I ask you with all honesty: What does your political party want? What does the Government of the Generalitat want? What does the Republican Left want from Catalonia, which shares this government and which today is going to vote negatively on this motion? What does the CUP want, which supports this government? What exactly do you want? My impression is that they not only want different things but none of them leads us anywhere; my impression is that they all lead us to a dead end. I think it is time, Mr Homs, to assume that reality, to accept it, to say it out loud, because until you assume with all sincerity that we are in a dead end, we will not be able to speak with sincerity and honesty. We will not be able to exercise that dialogue which you intend to defend, calling for the creation of a committee in this House, if we do not assume that you are in a dead end. I want to be clear with today's intervention, I'll tell you what I want. I do not want to vote for a break, Mr Homs, I want to vote for an agreement, I want the political forces with parliamentary representation to make the effort to reach an agreement. And I ask him: what fear is he of that dialogue? How afraid are you to come to an agreement? Are they afraid of dialogue, negotiation and compromise because they fear reaching an agreement? Are you afraid of reaching an agreement that we would actually have to put to the vote by all citizens? What are you afraid of? Let us discuss, negotiate and agree, and put that agreement to the vote, Mr Homs. [[Applauds]] This is what I want, what my party wants, what all the Spanish Socialists want, this parliamentary group and many, many Catalans too. In the end, Mr Homs, on the basis of your proposal we have come to the conclusion that you are reducing the Catalan question to how to get out of your proposal for an illegal referendum in Catalonia. A proposal whose screen - in its terminology - was passed a long time ago. The Socialist Group is ready to work on the points raised, the forty-six, because we want to address the issues of concern to Catalans and Catalans and of concern to the vast majority of Spanish citizens. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is ready to dialogue and negotiate a new territorial agreement, a new political pact with a reform of the Constitution. Mr Homs, once you're clear about what you want, we can start that sincere dialogue you were referring to. For the moment, what is clear from the introduction of this motion - from my modest point of view - is that you have missed an opportunity to start that dialogue, an opportunity to raise something that could be accepted by this House so that we could start working, and at the root, the substance of the matter, Mr Homs. You do not want to offer answers to the demands of Catalan society, you do not want to give answers to Catalonia, you just want to give a way out to your only point of political offer to Catalan society, which is the holding of a second illegal referendum. We wait for them and we wait for them to change their attitude. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs Batet. Mrs Sánchez-Camacho has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u221	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Homs, you said that the People's Party, the People's Party government is predictable. You know why? Because during these years the government of the People's Party has been the government of 7.5 million Catalans, it has helped in social policies, in education, in infrastructure, in ensuring liquidity, while you were just talking about referendums and taking Catalonia to a dead end. [[Applauds]] Of course we're predictable! What I can tell you is that in democracy I am not afraid of anything because it has been very difficult to build this democracy that we all enjoy in this House, which the Spanish enjoy. What I am afraid of, Your Honor, is that Catalan political leaders skip the law, do not have as a priority to guarantee the needs and solve the problems of Catalans, skip court decisions and continue to impinge on dragging the people of Catalonia into a situation outside the law that Catalans do not deserve. That really scares me, the 137 Members of my group and the vast majority of Catalans. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we came here to talk about those forty-six points in infrastructure, of 55 billion, of a government that had no liquidity, and medicines were paid to pharmacies and hospitals, because you were unable to do so; we gave them 11 billion euros for infrastructure, for improving hydrological policy, for improving the Dependency Plan, for improving cultural policy. What's left a lot to do? Obviously, but this Government did so in a situation of serious national emergency, of economy in crisis, and of course we will continue to do so, because do you know what the responsible dialogue is for us? Work to give answers and solutions to the problems of Catalans. Excuse me, Your Honor, because for the first time I rise to this rostrum to speak also as a Catalan, as a Spanish and as a European. I hear many things here: I hear that the people of Catalonia want to disconnect, that the vast majority of Catalans have the legitimacy to leave Spain, that the vast majority of Catalans want a referendum, and that is not true. I'm not saying that. In the last plebiscite elections they held, they lost in seats and in votes the independence majority: there were 1,900,000 votes. In that pseudo referendum they held, in the 9N simulation they got 1,800,000 votes in favor. What about the rest, the other 7 million Catalans? Don't those have a voice? Doesn't that sound like it? Those did not go to vote because they are with the vast majority of Spaniards, because they want to remain Spanish, European and Catalan also above all. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the figures, because we Catalan non-independent Members also have a voice. The opinion studies that your Government, our Government - although it is not at the service of all Catalans, unfortunately - already say that the vast majority of Catalans are to be continued in Catalonia, to continue working in Spain, to remain integrated in Europe. Is that your legitimacy for a referendum? You tell me about the Constitutional Court. What did the Constitutional Court tell you? Which would tell anyone who had basic legal knowledge. Why did you come here in April to ask to be delegated the competition in Catalonia to make a referendum? They came because they didn't have it, didn't they? If they come, they don't have it. This House refused it with the vote against 299 Members. They don't have the power to make referendums because they can't do them. The Constitutional Court is therefore telling them that they cannot do so. Holy court? Who presents more remedies to the Constitutional Court? Don't fool public opinion with that double measuring rod. You present more appeals to the Constitutional Court - fifty-eight - than the Government of Spain. Man, please! When they don't give reason, it's a delegitimized and sacrosanct court. No, the institutions, the division of powers and the rule of law must be respected by all. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have a hand in dialogue. We must overcome the phase of grievances, confrontations, Mr Homs. I say this to you from the deepest sincerity, from the deepest conviction, from the deepest commitment. We reach out to them so that we can work on that, not on a working committee to approve what this House has no competence and neither does the Catalan Parliament. Don't pursue impossible chimeras, they only generate frustration. We must work on what is truly of concern to the Catalans, to bring them the solution. But you will not find us, Mr Homs, gentlemen of the Government of Catalonia, on a working committee which intends to speak in order to break Spain. The 137 Members of the People's Party are not going to be there now or ever, I assure you; neither now nor ever. [[Applauds]] I end up saying that you have a chance to choose. He talks to us about extremism, but for God's sake, don't make it any better for me! What are extremisms? Do you agree and be subjected to the blackmail and hostage of those of the CUP, who are demanding the resignation of their advisers, who are appealing to disobedience, who are burning the king's photos and saying that the legal order is not being complied with? You are with extremism, we are with moderation, with centrality and with what the future of Spain and, in it, the future of Catalonia needs. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Mr Rajoy told you: run away from extremism. We reach out to them to continue working on a joint dialogue. Take advantage, if you really want this dialogue - I hope it is for the benefit of most Catalans - to attend the Conference of Presidents, to take advantage of the debate in bilateral forums, to take advantage of the debate in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. We will gain much more from all of you, and of course the millions of Catalans who are currently deeply concerned, who are currently fractured and divided, and the rest of Spanish society is also concerned. We have the opportunity to do so, to open a new stage, to overcome those grievances and to engage in a constructive, responsible dialogue that improves and gives solutions to Catalans. I hope that you will no longer be predictable and that Mr Puigdemont will be at that Conference of Presidents. Dialogue, because if you have not proved to the public that your independence myth is gradually disassembled, that the grievances to which you referred here are...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u222	Mrs. Sánchez-Camacho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u223	It's over, President. Here are the compelling facts, but this government wants to dialogue because we are interested, it seems that more than you, the interests, problems and solutions of the real problems of Catalans, which are certainly not the referendum. I'm done with a date, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u224	It must be over, Mrs. Sanchez-Camacho.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u225	Very brief, President, with his coming, I conclude by appealing to a phrase that was said in the 13th century: we must work to continue helping save Spain. Jaume I the Conqueror said it. Learn from the story together. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u226	Your time is up, Mrs. Sanchez-Camacho. Thank you. The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to point out, first of all, that we will support the motion by the Democratic Party, which seeks ways of negotiation and dialogue that will lead to the democratic aspirations of the people of Catalonia. On the subject of that question, I will make a few brief reflections on some of the issues raised by the motion. Firstly, on legality and legitimacy. Both are contained in the classic definition of law, which as a form of social life expresses a view on justice and crystallizes in a system of legality. It is, therefore, a binomial that needs to be dialogued, and in its dialogue is the solution of many problems of social organization and coexistence. I can be told that in the liberal rule of law the legitimacy of an order comes from being the expression of the general will, thus producing a harmony between rationality and justice on the one hand and law or legality on the other. However, this order of positive law does not serve the crisis processes of models, as when on the whole the supposed ideals on which faith in legality is based are questioned. When this happens, legality becomes pure formalism, it is an empty legality, a broken tool; the instituted legality loses its legitimacy, it no longer has justification in rationality, it is no longer a source of legitimacy. The consideration that the expression of the general will confers on legality its legitimacy is, like all conventionalism, partly fair and partly reasonable because its power is based on its acceptance by all. But when the political body, whose expression was the general will, is fractured, the established legality loses much of its legitimacy. The second reflection I wanted to make concerns the political subject or the demos. What is a nation or people? There is no objective definition of it beyond saying that it is an author representing a collective, a feeling and its strength to be shared. A feeling of people who claim to be a nation or a people because they are conscious of being so and will continue to be so. In the 1978 Constitution, it was an issue that was intensely debated, both on the occasion of article 2 and with the additional first and not settled, as the Constitutional Court claims. The Constitutional Court considers exclusively positive law and rejects as meta-legal the facts and debates that they expressed that they served to build that order and system of 1978. The conduct of the High Court has, in our view, been bureaucratic and functional, not wanting to assume the political nature that, to a large extent, has its jurisdiction. As Enoch Albertí says, the court has tightened the Constitution and has left out of it a conception of the State which admitted national recognition of certain territories, without their recognition necessarily leading to a claim of sovereignty of its own or directly to an independent State. And the third and final reflection I wanted to make is on the right to decide and its most genuine manifestation: the referendum. Can it be built as the Supreme Court of Canada, within the state legal system? What is the relationship between politics and law? What's the dilemma? To the law from the law, as I said in the Torcuato Fernández-Miranda Transition? Or how did Suarez say, to make normal in law what is normal in the street? Is a State democratic that is only governed by the rule of majority in order not to meet almost permanently the majority demands of a sub-state community? That is why at the end of the twentieth century the right to decide, as a remedy to the deficits of accommodation of permanent collective minorities on a territorial basis and which are seen, by the rule of the majority, not to satisfy their majority claims within a higher political body in which they are integrated, the way and way in which individual freedoms arose in their day, as a remedy to the possible dictatorship of the majority over individuals. The right to decide is certainly a non-positive right, but we believe that it can be combined with the constitutional principles of article 1.1, the democratic principle and the principle of freedom on which the whole State is founded, with the duty of the public authorities to promote the conditions of equality and freedom of the individual and of his or her groups so that they are real and effective - article 9.2 -, with the fundamental right of political participation as a political projection of the right and freedom of individual choice - article 23 - and with the principle of the dignity of the individual as a basis of the whole system - article 10-. It is true that they must also be combined and brought into dialogue with the principle of concentrated sovereignty, with the principle of constitutionality, legality and respect for the law and the rights of others. I conclude, President, with the words of Herrero de Minón who said: A democratic state is a permanent process of voluntary integration, not based on coercion but on the will to live together. Recognition of differentiated political bodies and holders of collective rights such as decision-making can also be the basis for voluntary integration and the pact's best expression. We will vote in favour of this proposal which seeks to solve a political problem in the face of the judicialization of politics. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u229	Very late, deputies and deputies. Left Republican always, always, always, has defended and will defend the referendum as a democratic instrument for Catalan citizens to decide their future. In this regard, the Generalitat will do the referendum in 2017 and we will do so by saying what the Constitutional Court says. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya has always, always, always, defended dialogue as a democratic instrument to resolve conflicts in a civic and peaceful way and, in this sense, we have insisted that the Spanish Government dialogue with the Government of Catalonia, representative, in short, of the people of Catalonia, how the Catalan people's diaphanous will to define their political status, from government to government can be made effective. In the event that Catalonian citizens vote in favour of independence, we maintain the will to negotiate with the Spanish government on a calendar, transfers, assets, liabilities and transitory basis. As we have already expressed in her day in the presence of the Vice-President of the Government, we would like the dialogue to take place from a cordial and understanding point of view. However, the Spanish Parliament and Government, unlike the British Parliament and Government with regard to Scotland, has rejected any possibility of referendum or dialogue absolutely on all occasions when the Republican Left has raised it or raised it either by the Catalonian Parliament or by the Catalonian Government. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, tired of as much closure as the Constitutional Court has again demonstrated today, tired of so many portados to our proposals to hold a dialogued and agreed referendum, decided that it would not ask for any more commissions or requests for referendums. In fact, today it will be clear that we cannot, that, despite what we can and want, we will not be able or able to. On the contrary, Esquerra Republicana pledged in the elections to defend here, in Madrid, with all the firmness, the legitimacy of the Parliament of Catalonia to convene and hold a referendum and we have defended it. The comrades of the PDC believe that a new attempt should be made and a commission requested on the Catalan issue in Congress should also be prepared to draw up a diagnosis on the compliance of the Statute of Catalonia in recent years and to analyse the possibilities of resolving the existing political conflict. We do not agree with this committee. We do not believe that it is necessary for a committee of Congress to evaluate the flagrant invasion of competition, the continuous cuts in competition and the continuous disregard for the Statute of Catalonia by the Spanish Legislature and Executive. Nor do we consider it opportune for a committee of this Congress to analyse the legal possibilities of a referendum which, I repeat, yes or yes, the Parliament of Catalonia and the Government of Catalonia have a commitment to carry out. Esquerra Republicana considers that in this scenario the negotiation that must take place is between Mr Rajoy and Mrs Santamaría with Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras. From government to government, I repeat, from government to government. However, and although we do not agree with the committee that rightly proposes l ́estimate Homs, we will vote in favour of your proposal. We will do so so that no one doubts that until the end we are ready to support any proposal for dialogue. I also warn you that no one doubts that with dialogue or without dialogue and says what the Constitutional Court, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and Vice President Junqueras say will be loyal to the democratic mandate we have to decide whether or not the future of Catalonia through a referendum. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u231	Good morning, in this room so full. I have heard Mrs Sánchez-Camacho say that thanks to the government of the People's Party she had practically saved herself from Catalonia. I'm surprised they're the fifth force in Catalonia. Either the Catalans and the Catalans are mostly a panda of ungrateful or their speech that the People's Party has been the one that has saved the Catalans and the Catalans, both in social and national terms, does not work. Either most voters in Catalonia are wrong or you are wrong, as I believe. On the other hand, I think that we have put too much passion - sometimes I too do - into what we have said, because I have heard Mrs Batet, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho and the representative of Citizens say that the referendum was illegal, by itself. They say: referendum, illegal. But we know that this is not the case, so much so that there are constitutionalists, such as Pérez Royo, Rubio Llorente or Francesc de Carreras, who have said that this referendum can be legal. Therefore, if it can be legal, it can be discussed whether it can be done or not, and that is why there can be a Commission where debate can be made whether this referendum can be held. Even the Constitutional Court, which, rather than a constitutional court, the TC now seems to be the court of Catalonia because all it does is basically challenge Catalan laws or regulations, and to which neither I nor the majority of Catalans and Catalans give it any legitimacy, has not suspended the resolution of the Catalan Parliament which speaks of the possibility of a referendum agreed; and has not done so because that Constitutional Court, which for you is the alpha and omega of the whole reality, also knows that there is the possibility of discussing a referendum. Therefore, those who have practiced post-truths in this House before Spanish society for too many years are none other than you, and to be able to debate something, which can indeed be debated, and to refuse to do so with all those words, is basically trying to deny a reality. So much so that in their amendments they try to put forward alternative proposals, because they know that denial by denial leads nowhere. In the case of the PSOE, there is talk of federalism. Federalism in Catalonia and Spain has done no worse than to use it against something, not as a proposal, but against another proposal, that of the right to decide or independence. That's the worst favor federalism has ever been given. You, who think you're the greatest proponents of federalism, kill him day by day, discredit him day by day. For citizens, the proposal is the Conference of Presidents and, therefore, the issue of reform of autonomous financing. Not bad as a proposal, but that had to have happened in January 2014; let's say it's not a future bet, but something that was very much in the past. And I would say that the People's Party goes beyond even Citizens, because in its amendment proposal they talk about the meeting of the Catalan-Spain Bilateral Commission. They're accepting bilaterality. Beware of the new editorial of FAES, because they are also incurring something very dangerous. All these proposals, which may seem good or bad, are made not alongside that proposal that Catalans and Catalans have repeatedly voted against, which is the right to decide, but against. That is what nullifies your proposal for dialogue, because dialogue is done precisely by accepting all proposals for dialogue. I'll explain it to you. His new Minister of the Interior recently said in Brussels: We must impose dialogue and not give in. Above all, don't give in. Order, unity and endurance. Do you think that's a credible proposal for dialogue? Dialogue is based on absolutely basic principles: recognition of the problem. We are in the worst territorial crisis in the Spanish State since the transition until now. The problem is recognized and the problem can be discussed. The problem is not the funding model, it is also recognition of the partners. You don't go to Barcelona to talk to those who will give you the reason. That's not dialogue. That's it: we're going to have a chat and we'll get along right away. The recognition that all proposals are legitimate and there is a willingness to reach agreements. That's called dialogue. In that regard, what has been voted on has been repeatedly voted on in Catalonia. I am going to say one thing, because I believe that in the passion of the moment, we also have a bit of a ball: to convene a summit is not unilateral, because if not everything would be unilateral in this country. A summit can be convened without a sin of unilaterality. It would be good if those who call it, actually call it, because they have not called anyone; they have called it by the press. It would also be good to recognize certain things. The representative of Esquerra Republicana said: we have always defended the referendum in this House. That's not true. You said repeatedly that it was a past screen. You also have to remember that dearest phrase. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Domenech. Finally, at the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments tabled, I should like to ask Mr Homs Molist whether he accepts any of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u233	No, as I have said in my speech, I do not accept any of the amendments, because they are not, as has been said in one of them in writing, technical amendments, but are all of them. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-14-CD161214.u234	Thank you very much, Mr Homs, we take note of your demonstration. All items on the agenda have already been dealt with and the sitting has been suspended. It was two and ten minutes in the afternoon.
