ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u2	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the section relating to proposals for the creation of commissions, in order to include as new points the proposal for the creation of the Joint Parliamentary Control Commission of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its Companies and the proposal for the creation of the Joint Commission for the Study of the Drug Problem. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the first secretary is going to read the institutional statement. I would like at this time, and before reading the institutional declaration agreed by all the parliamentary groups, to greet on behalf of all the Members, and sincerely thank you for your presence in the Hall of Honour of the Chamber, a delegation of the Spanish Paralympic Committee headed by its vice-president, Mr Ángel Luis Gómez Blázquez. He is accompanied by a representation of athletes participating in the recent Rio Games, where they performed an excellent performance and gave us a great example of delivery and overcoming. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause, standing up, looking at the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u4	Institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies in recognition of the success achieved by the Spanish Paralympic Team at the Rio de Janeiro Paralympic Games 2016. The Paralympic Games are an example of overcoming, will and effort, where thousands of athletes show that all obstacles can be overcome. The Spanish Paralympic Committee was established in 1995 and since its establishment has been supported by the high institutions of the State. In 1998, it was recognized the same nature and functions as those of the Spanish Olympic Committee. At the Rio de Janeiro Games 2016, the Spanish Paralympic Team was formed by 127 athletes from 11 Spanish sports federations. The Plan support paralympic objective sport, ADOP, initiative of the Spanish Paralympic Committee, the Higher Sports Council and the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, aims, through its High Paralympic Performance program, ARPA, to provide Spanish paralympic athletes with the best possible conditions to be able to carry out their preparation and thus meet with guarantee of success the participation of the Spanish team in the Paralympic Games. The contributions to the ADOP Plan, a plan to support the paralympic objective sport, of the collaborating companies have made possible the success of our athletes by betting on the paralympic sport to transmit to society the values that these athletes represent: effort, overcoming or teamwork. For this reason, and after closing the Rio de Janeiro 2016 Paralympic Games with the great successes collected by our athletes and with a view to the preparation of the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games, the Congress of Deputies states: First, the recognition, congratulations and thanks to all and each of the participating athletes, technicians, medical trainers, physiotherapists, mechanics, translators and support and office staff who make up the Spanish team of the Rio 2016 Paralympic Games, who with their sporting commitment have contributed to the inclusion and equality of opportunities for people with disabilities and to Spain's growth and consolidation. In addition, the congratulations to the Spanish Paralympic Team for the medallion obtained at the Rio de Janeiro 2016 Paralympic Games, with 31 medals - maximum equality, 15 women and 15 men and a mixed one -: 9 golds, 14 silvers and 8 bronzes in 6 sports, which has placed Spain in the eleventh place of the world rankings improving the performance of London 2012, where Spain held the seventeenth place. Paralympic sport has increased in recent years, and with a view to the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games, it is necessary to continue to promote sports policies for their full integration as well as to encourage increased contributions from the ADOP Plan sponsors. All this allows athletes to have the necessary means to enjoy scholarships and training aids, as well as to attend a greater number of international concentrations and competitions, to have technicians, coaches and support staff, among others, in order to obtain the best results and to keep Spain among the elite of sport practiced by people with disabilities. The commitment to continue to drive towards society and the media interest in the values of the effort and sacrifice of paralympic sport, as well as greater follow-up of the paralympic competitions and their results. Congress of Deputies. 27 September 2016. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u5	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u6	We now turn to agenda item 1 on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, it is appropriate to discuss the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on improving the effectiveness of active employment policies. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, to speak well of one is usually much more objective and much more credible than when one does it of himself. That European institutions, such as the Central Bank, set Spain an example among European partners in order to create jobs must certainly be a great pride for this House and its Members. More and more European bodies and institutions value the employment policies of the People's Party from outside in an objective and positive way. And it is not surprising, to transform a situation like that of 2011 - of record of destruction of employment in the European Union because of a rigid, inflexible, and insensitive market, I would say, in the light of the evidence that dismissal was the only possible option, that came to generate 3.5 million unemployed in our country - in a situation in which the most ambitious reforms of recent years allowed to stop the hemorrhage, to turn the situation around and now to grow at a dynamic rate as never before, it is logical, ladies and gentlemen, that it causes admiration and praise by those who never believed that Spanish society would be able to achieve it. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is the leader in job creation in the European Union; today, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is the spearhead behind half of the job creation on the European continent; today, ladies and gentlemen, we have already recovered half of the jobs destroyed during the crisis; today, ladies and gentlemen, no one doubts that if we persevere we will be able to create 2 million more jobs and thus aspire to the figure of 20 million occupied in Spain, vital for the sustainability of our welfare state and for the future of our society. If we persevere, ladies and gentlemen, and if we leave behind the uncertainty and blockade of these months and return to the stability that attracts projects and investments, to the stability ultimately of having a fully-performing government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no Spanish could doubt that the first initiative that the People's Party presented in this Parliament in this House would be an initiative on employment, our priority, our sign of identity, what we have worked for every day in recent times. An initiative to modernise our active employment policies, increase the effectiveness and efficiency of public services and transform the model of vocational training for employment, guiding it towards quality and results. An initiative to deepen the multi-annual framework that contemplates the intentions and wishes of the autonomous communities also, in order to be able to orient it towards a change of culture, new tools, a different model of distribution of funds, aligning the objectives of all in the annual employment plans, rationalizing also the system of bonus of the recruitment, the measures of intermediation of labor and the measures of channelling of the supply. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we want to continue to advance in order to deploy the full potential of these measures, of this new framework of action put in place and to continue to add to the efforts of the whole society, enhancing guidance services, personalized training and work itineraries, increasing the levels of coverage of the programmes, improving the Youth Guarantee and its incentives and also the possibilities of insertion. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to develop the law regulating vocational training for employment, training checks for long-term unemployed, evaluation at all levels in order to continue to rely on our human capital and innovation in our country; we want to take a step further in the direction of improving the labour market from the supply side but also from the demand side, more and better guidance and training linked to new needs and also the removal of barriers and obstacles to recruitment, yes, without ever forgetting the support and benefits to those who need them while they have just found a job. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also tabled an amendment in the light of the latest judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, especially on interim measures, which affect the Spanish Workers' Statute of 1980, to study, to design in an agile manner responses to these contributions. We did not want to waste a single minute of our time in asking for an in-depth assessment of the implications of these developments and those which in their day incorporate the Spanish courts which at the time requested preliminary consultations on certain issues, never provided for in our labour law but which can benefit in an important way the conditions of the workers in the same way as we signed in the agreement of August in this House. All this, ladies and gentlemen, in order to improve legal certainty and also our labour relations, but for this we need to unlock this situation, we need a government that can make decisions and not a functioning government, a government that can continue to take useful measures for employment, and the Spaniards know very well, at this moment, who is preventing it, as they also know that the policies that work must not be changed, the policies that are causing unemployment to be reduced faster than ever in our country. Countries that do not learn from the mistakes of the past are doomed to repeat them, and we have already had two times to recover Spain from unimaginable unemployment figures. Ladies and gentlemen, many promise jobs, I would say that everyone talks about jobs, but the only party that has always, regardless of what the economic moment of our country has been, the only party that always bets on jobs, improves it and increases it has been the People's Party. And so it will continue to be, so today we are presenting this new job initiative; we are doing this to deepen active modern and effective employment policies to keep moving forward, to persevere in what is proving useful for Spanish society. That is why we ask all your ladies and gentlemen to join, together with the thousands of Spaniards who are already benefiting from these measures and those who are going to benefit in the future, which has been shown to work, in these policies which Europe values and which the unemployed need well. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Salgado Echaniz. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Campuzano i Canades, the Joint Parliamentary Group, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u9	Mr Echaniz, it is not surprising that a few moments ago they refused to respond to this plenary and that they now intend to discuss an initiative to boost government action. It's terribly incoherent. Perhaps due to a little respect for the House and the electorate, this initiative could be saved, which we do not know exactly who it is urging, whether the next government or the government in office. And, therefore, even if it is only for that reason that my group today must reject its initiative, which it has also presented with this self-congratulation speech on a subject which the Government has little reason to feel as satisfied as Mr Echaniz has expressed, given the situation in our labour market and specifically the development of active employment policies. In all the employment policies that the Government has developed, what constitutes a red light is indisputably active employment policies. If you read any report from the European Commission, the OECD or the ILO, what is evident is that the great issue pending in this legislature has been the reform of active employment policies, the failure of the Youth Guarantee - the Catalan Government is demanding a reform of that Youth Guarantee - long-term unemployment. Furthermore, in the initiative that we are being brought to the House today, they insist on refocusing these policies, forgetting that much of them today must be managed by the autonomous communities and that what you insist on the Government should hardly be managed by the Government. Autonomous communities must do so. In addition, they have been dedicated to cutting investment in active employment policies. That is why they have been criticized by all the international bodies that, in the face of a labour market which suffers from a serious problem of long-term unemployment, of the lack of qualifications of workers, you do not invest in active employment policies. They can't find our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Joint Group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Party's non-legislative proposal it is said: because the autonomous communities must be more involved, referring to the Youth Guarantee Plan. You don't have any shame. The problem is that the Youth Guarantee Plan failed because you, by political decision, chose to manage it directly from Madrid before an election when you had to have managed it the autonomous communities, and in addition to a telematic way - I brought that non-law proposal and you voted against it a few months ago -, not recognizing that that computer application was impossible, especially for boys in social exclusion, because they were required to have computer skills and means to which they could not access. Not only that, we could not spend the money we had for the Youth Guarantee Plan, when Europe also gave more money to Spain because we had more youth unemployment. In addition, instead of acting through the autonomous communities, such as the case of the Canary Islands, which is the one with the most youth unemployment, say no!, from Madrid, by an online computer blocked. In the end, they're going to have to return money. There's no right to that. Secondly, you are the ones who govern, and you come here today, in this period, to say that there are things that need to be improved. To have improved them six months ago or a year ago, which we have been telling you from all the autonomous communities. The Canary Islands continues to demand the Special Employment Plan for the Canary Islands. And when it is said that it is based on good management, the Canary Islands is the one that has best managed the employment funds according to the ministry itself, with 27% unemployment. European funds are being distributed among countries according to the unemployment rate. Why are these European funds not managed in this country from the autonomous communities with a breakdown according to unemployment rates? There is no right for them to come here today to wear the medals of how well it has worked, especially the Youth Guarantee Plan. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u13	Madam President, thank you very much. We will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal proposed by the People's Group, simply because we are in favour and understand that the best social protection system and social inclusion framework for all people are active employment policies, and because we are in favour of efficiency and improvements in public services in the area of active employment policies and because we are therefore in favour of improvements in vocational training subsystems that give employability to families at risk of social exclusion and in general to all those who are actively seeking employment. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to go a little further and say that the Navarro People's Union is also in favour of maximum public-private cooperation in active employment policies. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is not us, ladies and gentlemen, but the small entrepreneur, the self-employed and the entrepreneur, and here we have the responsibility to give tranquillity, stability, confidence and above all security, and that is precisely what we are not doing in this Congress of Deputies in the last ten months.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to use this fourth intervention to talk about the GNP that the People's Party has tabled, but I would like to focus above all on an issue that for us is absolutely essential, central, which happened last week and on which an amendment has been tabled by the People's Group, another by us and another by other groups which unfortunately will not be accepted. This is the question of contracts, of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Just over a week ago, the EU Court of Justice issued three judgments opening the door, as I say, to a profound change in our labour market. It is an opportunity that opens up Europe, if I may, historic for us all to build a new time of opportunity and get a little closer to Europe. The most important sentence is in the case of Ana de Diego, an interim worker who had been working at the Ministry of Defence for ten years and who at the end of her contract did not receive any compensation. Why? Because Spanish legislation allowed that. Well, Europe tells us that can't be. The court's ruling is meridianly clear. Leo: Workers with a fixed-term contract may not be treated in a less favourable way than fixed-term workers who are comparable simply because they have a different contract. Speaking of silver: two people who have the same job cannot have different rights. [[Applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we in Citizens have been defending for a long time and it is called a single contract. As I say, these sentences mark the end of an era of failure. The drama of our labor market is not a curse that comes from heaven, it is the product of a terrible labor regulation that promotes unemployment and duality. We are not doomed to always have 20% structural unemployment; we do not have to remain the champions of unemployment and precariousness, competing with Poland in precariousness and with Greece in unemployment; we do not have to accept that 7 million people are in permanent precariousness without being able to access minimum job stability. The consequences of the system we have are harmful not only to the workers themselves, who suffer the most, but also to the economy. Do not invest in the future of these workers, companies do not invest in training and young people like me cannot form families because we cannot aspire to job stability. That's the system we want to end up with. The time has come to modernise the labour market and to have an equal contract for all, without first- and second-class citizens. I must confess that for those of us who have been defending the single contract for a long time it is surprising how quickly some - the old parties and the new old people - have come to join in the equal rights of workers, but we are very happy to see that there is progress in their positions towards good direction. The PP has had four years of absolute majority and we have eight more than 20% unemployment and nine out of ten contracts remain garbage contracts. The PSOE, for its part, would not hurt - I see that there is no one left here - to get rid of the servitudes and, as they did in past times, to be progressive and to look towards Europe. It has had to be Europe once again, together with Citizens this time, which marks the pattern, as almost always, of the modernization of this country. We need to move towards a system where the worker is at the centre, where flexibility is combined with security, where active and training policies work and offer hope for reintegration rather than reptile funds for political parties. The single contract is a huge advance, but we have to move on in many more things. We must move forward with a wage supplement to dignify the wages of those who have less; we must move towards an Austrian backpack so that workers have rights from day one. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, and with this I conclude, the judgment marks one before and one after in our labour market and it is a historic opportunity that we cannot waste. That is why, Mr. Speaker of the People's Party, it is not time to put patches on. Let us be ambitious, be responsible and look to Europe. From Citizens we propose to open a dialogue table with parties and social actors to address this profound change in the labor relations we propose; among all, but on the basis of a basic premise: two people doing the same work must have the same rights. Europe is screaming at us. As a result of this, I ask you to vote for the People's Party's GNP on points, as we have not been accepted by our amendment. So we could support the points on active policies, what we had agreed in the investment agreement - many of our initiatives that we would like to vote in favour - and in relation to your amendment on contracts we will abstain because we believe that it is somewhat unambitious. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the Socialist Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Echaniz, if the subject that brings us here today is not so relevant and if we do not know you, we might think that this proposal by the People's Party is a joke of bad taste because, after almost five years of government during which you have caused the greatest setback in our democratic history in the area of labour rights, in the area of quality in jobs, it is not serious that we should be presented with an initiative full of expressions such as: continuing to work, continuing to add efforts, continuing to progress or continuing to build among all. Keep moving on what, Mr. Echaniz? Continue to progress in precarious work after you have achieved that more than a quarter of the new contracts that are signed do not reach the week of duration? Do you continue to make progress in the wage devaluation in this country when you have managed to get 50% of our employees to cover less than 900 euros a month and 2 million of our employees to be considered poor workers? Keep moving on with this? [[Applauds]] And they also talk about continuing to build together. Among whom, Mr. Echaniz? You alone have decreed the greatest cuts in labour rights in our history - you alone - against the parliamentary groups this House, against the trade unions, against the self-employed, against the recommendations of the ILO, the World Bank, the IMF, all over the world. Keep building together between who and what, Mr. Echaniz? Your proposal is offensive since the title, Improving the effectiveness of active employment policies, when in this year's budgets, Mr Echaniz, we have 2,143 million euros less for active employment policies than in 2011; when in five consecutive budgets you have cut more than 13 billion euros for active employment policies and when the first thing you did when you came to the government in 2012 was to fire 3,000 guidance workers in public employment services. Offensive; your proposal is not only wrong, but offensive. And if the prose of motivation is offensive, the verse of the petitum is an unacceptable pastiche, Mr.Echaniz, full of obviousities, inconveniences and explicit recognitions of failure. One obvious thing at this stage is to talk about the common portfolio of services in public employment services or the single employment portal, which already exist and exist insufficiently because of its cuts, Mr Echaniz. One drawback is to insist on the privatization of public employment services because the duty of the State is to strengthen public service with quality and equity. A drawback is also to promote the business of private training chiringuitos by means of the formative cheque, when the duty of the State is to offer a planned, coherent, quality training and glue to the productive model by which we bet. And an explicit recognition of the failure of your Government, Mr Echaniz, is to speak at this stage of promoting the Youth Guarantee when not a quarter of the young unemployed in this country have been able to register in that bureaucratic computer hell that you have assembled with precious money from the European Union, which you will have to return. They now want to boost the Employment Activation Plan. The Minister spoke to us here of 450,000 beneficiaries of those 426 euros; 450,000. How many real beneficiaries were there last year, Mr. Echaniz? Not 400,000, not 300,000, not 200,000; last year only 53,000 and this year we did not reach 25,000. It is the recognition of a stupendous failure, Mr. Echaniz. And we warned you from here, that you were scars, very scars with the requirements of access to this benefit. We are now being told about the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Compliance with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which calls for workers not to be discriminated against on the basis of their contract, is not solved by studies. There is nothing to study, Mr Echaniz, the sentence must be applied and compensation granted to interim dismissals must be granted. Nor is it resolved with the precarious single contract with free dismissal posed by Citizens; that is not the exit. The ruling recognizes that there are differences between temporary and indefinite recruitment, and it only talks about uniting compensation, Mr. Citizen's Spokesman. The dramatic situation of employment in our country, the exploitation of labour in this country does not need sterile rhetoric, but a correction in every rule with the repeal of labour reform and with the social and political dialogue for a new Workers' Statute that recovers rights for employees in this country and recovers quality in jobs. That is what we propose and what we want to carry forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u18	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will vote against this non-legislative proposal and will force it not only because of the ineffectiveness of the measures proposed, but above all because it reproduces paragraph 42 of what was the pact between the People's Party and Citizens, which was already warned in the debate of investiture which constituted a flagrant and continuous interference, illegitimate in our opinion, in the area of competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Apart from all the more or less well-intentioned statements made by the proponents, it is surprising that the spokesman's self-complacement in this House in setting it out. We have a much more negative view of this proposal, especially based on the analysis of the nine points it raises; there were eight in the agreement of PP and Citizens, but they become nine in this proposal. By making a small analysis of them, we will point out that, first of all, he was talking about promoting active employment policies to ensure that they were a truly effective tool. In this regard, and continuing with this rhetoric, we must point out that the implementation of active employment policies in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is the responsibility of the Basque Country Administration since they were transferred through Royal Decree 1441/2010 of 5 August. In this case the proposal not only omits, does not know and in its content wants to completely ignore the reality of this transfer of active employment policies to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and above all that of guidance services, which correspond exclusively to the executive plan of active policies and therefore to our autonomous community. For example, the Basque administration is already working on a comprehensive intervention plan which not only covers profiling, but will go beyond statistics, that of applicants, not only unemployed, and reaches the job profile of companies, covering the whole process of labour integration of people and the competitiveness of companies. This GNP, Mr Echaniz, is once again forgetting, as always, the active policies directed at the company, which are actually the ones hiring. We therefore believe that this measure is insufficient, ineffective and also intrusive in our competitive framework. He talks about evaluating and expanding the Employment Activation Programme, PAE Plus, within the framework of the social dialogue and parliamentary debate. Well, we think that activation programmes for employment are the implementation of active policies and therefore the competence of the autonomous community. The monumental silence about this fact moves us to think again or, rather, to suspect re-centralizing intentions. The third point refers to the young people's entrepreneurship and employment strategy and to the Youth Guarantee, and should be dealt with together with the fourth point, which refers to the procedure for registering young people under the age of 30 in the Youth Guarantee telematics register. This record - understand it with all respect - has been a great failure and repeat the experience by enhancing a special record when the most natural thing is that young people register on a regular basis in public employment services, as is already done in the Basque Country, seems to us to be a mistake. The inability that occurred at the time to register, both for technical reasons at the outset and for reasons of narrow criteria later, has led, for example, to the fact that the grant action from the European level has reached a few young people. On the contrary, in application not only of transfers, but of a logic that has been imposed and that has been commented on by other political chroniclers, we believe that it would be more effective to transfer 50% of the European resources already appropriated by the State to the implementing autonomous communities of active employment programmes. There is also a renewed emphasis on the evaluation of services when the evaluation of the services themselves of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is to be carried out by its Government and its Parliament, where appropriate, in addition to the fact that the support of these active employment policies takes place through the implementation of the concert, which is the pillar on which all policies in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country are based. He spoke after setting up an independent body, a state institute for talent in employment, to evaluate active employment policies. We insist that the evaluation of the effectiveness of the services of the autonomous community is the responsibility of his Government and Parliament; ultimately, of our society. The creation of this body again attempts to overlap our competences. In addition, there is an evaluation tool, the Annual Employment Policy Plan, which manages SEPE, which assesses the results and, depending on them, allocates the funds to the Autonomous Communities. We are on the sidelines, but we believe that there is no such need for creation and the silence that is maintained with regard to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country makes us think that this is a new attempt to refocus. And he talks about the regulatory development - term, honor - of Law 30/2015. We agree here, because this is a clamorous need that has not been met by the interim situation of the Government. In this respect, the additional twelfth provision of this law, which includes the safeguarding of both transferred functions and their financing through the concert, must be complied with. In short, ladies and gentlemen, all the measures that have been proposed forget the multi-national and multi-administrative reality of the State and forget the transfers, therefore the legality of active employment policies, in order to affect aspects on which we suspect that there is nothing but a political intention that deviates from the legal reality of the State. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that our vote will be against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u20	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Salvador i Duch, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u21	Thank you, Madam President. It seems that, as last April, it is up to us to do electoral in this House, with what already seems to be a continuous electoral campaign, and for more than one party. This time the People's Party presents a non-legislative proposal that seeks the legitimacy of Congress in order to continue to govern against the working classes, i.e. against wage earners, pensioners, unemployed, precarious, autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises. He presents us with a document that seems to us to be a bad joke to millions of citizens when already in his explanatory statement he says things like he wants to consolidate economic recovery. But what recovery is it about and for whom has the economy recovered? Talk to the people, please. He also said that he wanted to continue job creation. What kind of job are you talking about? Is that one where, as much as you work, you're still poor? What does it have the highest temporality rates in Europe? Is that one where temporary contracts for fixed-term positions can be set up? Of jobs of easy, cheap and tremendously unfair dismissal, as, once again, does Europe recognise even though it is right-wing? Well, no. From the Republican Left of Catalonia we will vote no. We will not participate in legitimizing their economic and labour policies contrary to most people. We shall vote not on this ambiguous, once again centralizing and, in our view, exclusively electoral proposal. We say centralizing because we remind you that in the field of active policies of occupation the Generalitat of Catalonia have exclusive competences according to the specificity of its labour market and its own model of active policies; by the way, in the antipodes of its based mainly on bonuses that only empty the Social Security box. The role of the State, once the policy lines have been defined generically, should be to expand resources to communities and not to cut them as has been done since 2008. We also say centralizing because it once again and obsessively invades the competences of the autonomous communities. For example, 50% of the funds allocated to the management of the Youth Guarantee are reserved for State-owned policies. We also say that it is centralizing because it says that an independent body with a tragic name is going to be created - I don't know if I'll be able to say it - a state institute for talent in employment with sufficient skills to continuously evaluate the active employment policies complemented... The name is very long but, in short, implies the creation of an agency to evaluate competences reserved once again for the autonomous communities. And we say that it is also centralizing because the training check - which I suppose should be to help some companies that are dedicated to this - should be registered by the autonomous communities, and the same can be said of dual vocational training. Recentralisation continues in the section in which it is stated that the common portfolio of public employment services is to be strengthened or a single portal is to be created and continues with the invention of linking financing to the results obtained, obviating that job integration does not depend exclusively on the implementation of active employment policies, or much less. You raise the interprofessional minimum wage, repeal labour reforms or invest in public infrastructure with a clear social and economic return and, without a doubt, you will find yourself with a pleasant surprise in the numbers of occupation and in the quality of it, if this was your goal. Finally, as regards the extension of the activation programme for employment, which we have already discussed here, our opinion has already been very clear in this very forum last April, where we have also demonstrated the failure of its social protection measures. In our view, what they have to do at this particular point are less proposals and increase once and for all the number of people who can benefit from these measures and their amount. That you can do by decree tomorrow, which you know a lot about. It is already clear that they have the affirmative votes of all at this point. Esquerra Republicana will not vote against the more than 100,000 families that can receive bread and salt - that is, the 426 euros - receive them. Otherwise, they will always have us by their side to extend social protection. In short, not to its proposals for active policies, but to a proposal for an increase in the quantity and quality of the employment activation programme. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador i Duch. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u23	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Strengthening economic recovery, promoting stable and quality job creation and reducing job insecurity are some of the key concerns we want to address. Further work is needed to make active employment policies more effective tools at the service of the opportunities of the unemployed in our country. T-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t. This is the initiative that the People's Group is bringing us to debate today. You have to have a very hard face, but very hard, to say this. Despite last year's budget increase - election year, of course - the People's Party government has cut the budget for active employment policies by 39%, i.e. €12 billion less. The State Public Employment Service, SEPE, which people know as the unemployment offices, are being reduced to a minimum to facilitate their privatisation even further. Evidence of this is that only 2% of the unemployed got employment through this service in 2015. Of course, they also attacked so-called passive employment policies, reducing the amount of benefits by 22% in 2016 and leaving almost two million people, the long-term unemployed, without receiving a hard, zero; nor a hard one. Above all, they have cut more in the autonomous communities with a lower per capita GDP; that is, to understand us, the poorer, the more cuts, and believe me that we know a lot about this in the Canary Islands. I repeat what I said above, that with this data you have to have a very hard face to bring this text to debate today; but very hard. The terrifying diagnosis is already done, but the important thing is the solutions. Let us not be fooled, the best employment policy is a strong and diversified productive fabric that can generate jobs, with healthy and profitable agriculture geared to food sovereignty, with a powerful and high value-added industry based on research and development and with a service sector, which is the most important in our country, with labour rights and decent wages. There are three things we can do as a country and we must do them now. First of all - forgive for the voice but it is for the cold; for the canaries, the climate of Madrid is what it has -, an energy transition plan and productive economy that, based on renewable energies, efficiency and R & D+i, generates approximately 300,000 jobs, both for our most trained people and for the people who worked in the construction sector and have been excluded, who stayed out by the explosion of the real estate bubble. Secondly, to build a new framework of labour relations by repealing and putting an end to the terrible labour reforms of the Socialist Party in 2010 and of the People's Party in 2012, reforms that have caused so much suffering to working people in our country. And, thirdly - this is also important - to reduce the share of self-employed workers with criteria of rationality and economic rationality. If you enter less than the interprofessional minimum wage, you are not paid, and if you enter more, you are paid according to what you enter, as is done in other European countries. This would ease the rope that millions of self-employed people have around their necks and allow more staff to be hired and, of course, to generate employment. This can be done now, it is only necessary to have political will and a little bit of shame, which I believe you do not have much. Going back to the above. Do you know what really lies behind this particular vision of employment policies? Something very macabre, even very sadistic I would say, and profoundly unjust, which is the guilt of the person who is unemployed, to blame the person who is unemployed of his own situation. And no, gentlemen of the People's Group, blame is not out there, it is not a matter of vagrancy, capacity or lack of preparation. Outside there are many people who want to work, who want to work and can't, many people very prepared, very trained, who lie down night after night without any expectation. There's a lot of people leaving the country because it's impossible to lift their heads here. No, gentlemen of the People's Group, the blame is not out there, the guilt is in here and you have it. [[Applauds]] Needless to say, we are going to vote against this infamous initiative, but not because they are laughing at us, something we are already used to, but because with it they are laughing at the almost four million people who are currently unemployed, and we are not going to allow that. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Salgado, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u25	We accept, of course, the amendment on the Court of Justice of the European Union tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group. We do not accept the rest of the amendments and we do accept the request of the spokesman for the Citizens' Group for the separate vote on this initiative. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IN FUNCTIONS APPROVES BY DECRETO-LEY, IN THE CASE OF PRESUPPORTARY PURPOSE, THE INCREASE OF PUBLIC PENSIONS AND RETRIBUTIONS OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES. [[File number 162/000102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u27	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal that the Government in office adopt by decree-law, in case of budgetary extension, the increase in public pensions and salaries of public employees. For the presentation of this initiative, Mrs Rodríguez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is intended to show the Government that nothing prevents it from adopting a decree-law to increase public pensions and the salaries of public employees. You will wonder why we only ask you for this royal decree, and it is because you have endeavoured to put this matter on the table of the negotiations of your investiture and as an element of political pressure, even blackmail, I dare say. It was the Vice-President of the Government, press conference yes and press conference too, who put it on the table. Nothing prevents them from doing it, but it's just that you have to do it. That is the purpose of this initiative that we are presenting today. It is urgent to meet the basic needs of citizens, especially those who are experiencing the worst, of pensioners and public employees. I will not give you advice on how the decree-laws are used, because you have been abusing them during the ancestry of the legislature with your absolute majority; I would not even have to cite other precedents of budget extensions in which a decree-law was used to increase the pensions and salaries of public officials, because you yourselves, in the past legislature, being in office, approved a real decree-law for the purpose of activation of employment. Therefore, there is no possibility of saying that the Government is unable to bring a decree-law. You can do it, you must do it, and the Socialist Group's aim is for you to feel supported by the majority of this House, which urges you to bring that decree-law so that it can be passed. This is not the first time you have used these elements as blackmail. They have used from the Government the Administration, the institutions, to blackmail the formation of the Government or the investiture process. They have come to blackmail the autonomous communities with the fulfillment of the commitments of spending, doubting that they can compromise expenditures that they had already acquired. They have blamed the rest of the political groups for Brussels' serious budget failure. But using pensioners and officials for electoral and party purposes is a deplorable blackmail that we cannot admit to the rest of the House. It creates uncertainty, creates a blemish between pensioners and also the anguish of public employees, whose payroll depends on the State. Public pensions are the main source of income for 9 million Spaniards in our country, men and women pensioners who with their pension have not only taken charge of their expenses, of the expenses of their housing, of their food, of their medicines, but with these minimum and raquitica pensions have had to bear the expenses of their children's mortgages, of the bill of light, even of the textbooks of their grandchildren. This is the reality of the country you are leaving, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Leave me a second alone, because I suppose you'll come to me with the retahíla of 'you froze the pensions'. I remind you of the 53% increase in minimum pensions in the eight years of socialist government. [[Shows several graphics.-Applause]] I guess they'll come to me with the inheritance, too. This is the legacy that the Socialists left to the public pension system; a Social Security Reserve Fund of EUR 68,815 million, which you have already settled by 85%. This is their pension management. But I ask you to stop aggravating pensioners and, above all, to stop using them politically. And what am I going to tell you about your relationship with public employees? I could also make a summary of your management here. I could explain to you what you have done with the public service over the past four years, but I am left with one sentence, that of the Secretary of State for Public Administration, Mr Antonio Beteta. That phrase summarizes your management and what you think of civil servants, civil servants. You told them they had to forget about drinking coffee and reading the papers. As if the thousands of public officials in this country would do nothing but read the paper and drink coffee! No, ladies and gentlemen, the millions of civil servants in this country have done what they have done during the last four years of their Government is to sustain the welfare state. You have been the ones who cared for our children when you lowered the ratios in schools. You have been the ones who treated us with dignity in public hospitals when you were throwing them out on the street. They have been the ones who have ensured security and our integrity when you were privatizing public security in our country. That's what public employees have done and what they have worked for. Therefore, I ask you not to despise them again, not to use them politically again, that when they talk about public employees think that they are teachers and teachers, doctors and doctors, nurses and nurses, men and women who work for us and who maintain the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join us in this direction, to be able to draw the Government's commitment from this House, requested with the support of all groups, to bring this decree-law here; to stop blackmailing the rest of the political forces with pensioners and public employees and to stop using them in this partisan struggle. There's no reason for blackmail. There is no legal problem for the Government, by decree-law, to approve the increase in pensions or wages in the absence of the State's General Budgets and thus extended the previous Budgets. We Socialists ask them to do so, and we also give them the peace of mind that they will be able to do so with the support of the majority of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, it's in your hand. We do not share your modification of the pension system. We believe that there is much more to be addressed, such as some amendment that has been sent to us. But the time to talk about our model of the pension system, our model for the sustainability of the pension system in the future will be, especially if you want to get it to this House, through that decree-law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u29	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendment made by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Honorato Chulián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u30	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon I hope that we can be useful to millions of Spaniards and Spaniards; millions of Spaniards and Spaniards who have had to bear on their backs one of the most treacherous burdens of the crisis, as has been the brutal loss of purchasing power in recent years, while, moreover, they were forced to take care of the basic needs of children, daughters and grandchildren who were devastated by austerity policies. The Socialist Group is presenting us today with a non-legislative proposal calling on the Government in office, in the event of an extension of budgets, to adopt a decree-law which envisages the increase of public pensions and of the salaries of the staff in charge of the administrations. This measure seems absolutely essential to us. But it also seems essential to accompany a number of guarantees to this proposal. To the pensioners and pensioners of our country, those people who have been robbed of the tranquillity they deserved after a hard working life, the Government has been throwing at them every January 1st one of the unfortunately famous slogans in our country, such as that of'return tomorrow'. This morning it is multiplied by 365 days and telling them every year: come back the following year. This is an absolute lack of respect for all our elders. For eight years, since 2009, pensions in this country have lost purchasing power both with the reforms of 2011 and 2012 and with the comprehensive reform of 2013, and a government - any government - must guarantee the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions, applying a revaluation equivalent to the growth forecast of the CPI, which would be 1,1 % by 2017. In addition, we want this to be implemented without a trap, to be implemented taking into account that if at the end of the year the evolution of the CPI results in a figure higher than the originally planned one will refund that amount to our pensioners, as well as that it will apply to all pensions, without distinctions between contributory or non-contributory pension. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, today I hope that we can all force this government in office to fix the mischief that has been caused to the millions of pensioners in this country, a government in office that has also left the Social Security Reserve Fund as if it had been attacked by a gang of four. As far as the employees and public employees of this country are concerned, what can we say after the farce to which they have been subjected in recent years? With the excuse of reducing the deficit and the debt - a goal that has naturally not been achieved - this government and the former socialist government have turned public employees into the clown of a sad spectacle in this country, and I say this with complete respect and admiration for this very essential profession. And I say the clown of slaps because, while citizenship was witnessing the multiplication of cases of corruption, while the government was cutting and cutting, closing hospital plants, increasing and multiplying ratios, it was only the employees and public employees of this country who every day threw the country behind their backs and pulled it forward. [[Applauds]] In return, during the last five years, only slaps have been taken: they have taken the slap to see how wages have been systematically frozen; they have taken the reverse sound that involved the drastic drop in salary operated by a Socialist Party government in 2011; they have taken an increase in working hours; a reduction in days of free will; the abolition of extra pay. In particular, the real wage per public employee has been reduced by around 10%, but if we take into account all these added cuts we are talking about a cut of up to 30%. But the most dangerous thing is that the Government has wanted to spread a stigmatizing vision of female employees and public employees in this country, when there are the Aeval reports that state quite the opposite; they show how the people of this country support and value the effort that female employees and public employees have made to bring this country forward. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to reverse the situation and for that it is necessary to put an end to this abuse, to live up to the heroes and not to the villains, increasing the real rise in wages to match them to the CPI and urgently calling the Civil Service table to negotiate a decent public job offer. It is therefore important for us to include these guarantees. However, we will vote yes to the proposal put on the table by the Socialist Group because it seems to us important, vital, to take this forward today. Despite all the difficulties and storms that seem and say are looming over this House, I believe that today we can be useful to all Spanish and Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u31	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. New Canarias will support this non-legislative proposal which the representative of the Socialist Group has put forward for several reasons. The first is because, among all the groups that have suffered the consequences of the unjust adjustment policies associated with the crisis practiced by the People's Party in these years, some of those that have been particularly affected are these two groups precisely, that of public employees and that of pensioners. In the case of public employees because what underlies it is a talk of blaming public services for the crisis we have been suffering since 2008. That is, this was not the fault of the speculators or those who had an absolute desire to get rich at the expense of anything, but it was the fault of the public services. This has caused part of the very hard adjustment precisely among public employees, which is very important to make it clear that it is those who support public services, that is to say, the collective on which the basic social mattress of public services depends for the vast majority of the population. The other group is that of the pensioners, 9 million people who have to suffer every year the shame of suffering a ridiculous increase in their pension - which is the policy on which the People's Party is based, seems to be -, associated with a remarkable increase in expenses, especially in what we have come to call health support. We believe that it is time to start adjusting, we believe that there are sufficient reasons to do so, it is necessary to put an end to this idea of blaming the weakest and benefiting the strongest. On the other hand, we would like to think that the People's Party is not going to incur the temptation to threaten the population with which it is impossible to do anything - for example, a royal decree-law - because it prevents it from being a provisional government. We trust that they will not use that false argument, which would be profoundly unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u33	Thank you very much. I give the floor, also by the Joint Group, to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u34	I would first like to clarify that Euskal Herria Bildu will support any initiative aimed at ensuring that pensioners or public employees regain the purchasing power lost in recent years and can thus shorten the long distance that separates them from having - in the case of the vast majority of pensions - the minimum resources necessary to be able to meet their most basic needs, to lead a dignified life. But, having said that, I also have to denounce the situation that puts this proposal on the table, because the blues have been telling us that if there is a government there will be pensions and salaries and the reds have been telling us that the proposal is yours, although they know that it only has room if there is no government. They both hide from us, however, that, if both the Rajoy and Sánchez Government were to preside, any of them will continue with the measures they have been taking so far and that they are the real attack on the purchasing power of pensioners and employees of the Administration and they will probably be making further reforms of the labour market, pensions and also of the Administration, which will only deepen the path they have had so far. But every time you deceive fewer people and prove it are the results of the recent elections in the Basque Autonomous Community, because you of the People's Party and you of the PSOE are minority there, and you of orange barely exist. And yet they want to decide for us and for us? Well, it's not gonna happen. As far as Basque citizenship is concerned, it is becoming increasingly clear that 57 75 seats in the next Parliament in Gasteiz are good proof of this. Euskal Herria Bildu will therefore work to assert what the citizenry has said, which wants to own its future and wants to make decisions in everything that affects it, because we know that it is the only way to have decent pensions and to ensure that the salaries of public employees are also worthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u35	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you for your generosity in the management of time. I'll speak briefly. I was reminded by my colleague Carles Campuzano that there is a long way to go when the Toledo Pact was adopted in this House at the initiative of Convergence i Unió, and it was implicitly understood that pensions were left outside the electoral debate or the electoral profit, but we are not going to say that the Socialist Party is doing electoralism with this proposal because they have been provoking them very seriously, and his spokesman reminded me of that. The truth is that it would have to be an agreement of the majority of groups that revalue pensions and that the salaries of civil servants should also be updated. Because we are going to agree on other things, it seems we are going to agree to amend the Electoral Law. And can't we come to an agreement for such a simple thing that it affects so many millions of Spaniards? Looks like not at the moment. I think that's gonna have to be solved. Members of the People's Party, do not have the temptation to shield themselves in a government in office so that they cannot approve this upgrading of pensions and updating of the salaries of civil servants. Because, if so, do you want to tell me how you are going to explain to these millions of civil servants and pensioners that a functioning government cannot update its pension and salary, but can it change the Ministry of Defence budget by EUR 1,162 million? Are you going to explain to them that the Government in office can modify the defence budget by 20% and cannot update the pensions and salaries of officials, which, let us remember, affects not only the public workers of the General Administration of the State, but, if not approved, will affect all public workers, including the autonomous communities and the municipalities, who have the capacity and willingness to carry out this update? We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u37	Thank you very much. Next by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, I have the floor, Mr Barandiaran Benito.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us go ahead with our intention of supporting the non-legislative proposal, as we can only agree to consider increasing the pensions and salaries of civil servants, based both on reasons of social justice and on the economic policies of balance and distribution that some of my predecessors have already counted. It is not necessary to point out who has been precisely the most disadvantaged and who has endured the crisis most rigorously: pensioners and public employees; it is the public servants who, after all, have had to bear the consequences of economic policies which in any case have been detrimental to their specific interests, without prejudice to other interests which have been competing. Having said that - and I am referring to the proposer of the proposal - I must also point out that, however, we have certain doubts as to the feasibility of the proposal being put to us. It is not unusual - and the proposal itself points out - in the legal and political context and the extension of budgets, which can be carried out in accordance with article 134.4 of the Constitution, nor the use of the mechanism of the Royal Decree-Law in order to update public pensions and salaries. It is also true that this pension has been linked to the accreditation of reasons of extraordinary and urgent need, as stated in article 86 of the Constitution, as well as to the justification of attention to the general interest which allows such determinations to be excluded from budget laws. But in this case what makes this particular situation - and it is impossible to avoid - is that the hypothetical legislative action that is proposed to be promoted is requested when the Government is in office, and this GNP therefore has as a premise not only the possibility that the Government can act through a real decree-law in a state of extension of General Budgets, but that it is requested to act through the mechanism of article 86 of the Constitution when it is in the position of in office referred to in article 101.2 of the Constitution and therefore with the limitations referred to in Law 50/1997 of the Government. The action proposed by the PNL must therefore overcome two obstacles: one, the justification for the accreditation of the extraordinary and urgent need, as referred to in article 87 of the Constitution, and two, the need to certify cases of urgency, as stated in article 21.3 of Law 50/1997, or the reasons of general interest duly established to justify that the Government in office could make such proposals. We understand that with a certain will, and above all with a mechanism that my predecessor, the representative of the Catalan Democratic Party, who would be the unanimity of the parties, has commented, can be overcome, but that is not why we should leave aside or obviate that there are those difficulties which from the point of view of their legal certainty would need to be overcome. That is a doubt we should face. It is also true, on the other hand, that the pension update measure, as long as it is excluded from the constitutional procedure of budget approval, becomes a matter of mere legality. We wanted to quote him, too. This puts us in another absolutely transcendent doubt, and it is whether the non-law proposal for the same purpose could have been justified without taking the still-standing mechanism of asking the Government in office to draft royal decrees-laws. It is striking that the Government is urged to submit a decree-law because it is the Legislature that tells the Executive to draft rules that are within its competence even if the Government in office may not be empowered to do so, which gives us another kind of doubt. There is even the doubt of the temporary opportunity, and allow me the doubt, although there may already be too many, when in this case the budget extension with or without government in office is not imminent. Three months are ahead of us the assessment of the extraordinary and urgent condition of necessity, even if such an assessment should be made, we mean, at moments immediately preceding, that is to say, on 29th, 30th or 31st December. However, we agree that the non-law proposal is merely a declaratory initiative of intentions of a purely social and political nature and intention and that in this case and therefore does not legally oblige the Government to act in this way. He does, but he doesn't. Thus, despite the fact that the proposal for a non-legislative proposal is formulated in terms that give rise to some kind of doubt and despite not knowing the conditions of the political and legal scenario in which they could be produced, we believe that it promotes government action in a direction that we also share, and will therefore count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u39	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, political paralysis is not harmless. It is not about letting the days pass thinking that time will fix what politicians do not know or do not want to solve. The lost time already has costs that unfortunately do not pay its responsible, but the citizenry, and among it always the most vulnerable. The Socialist Parliamentary Group proposes that the Government in office, in the event of an extension of the general budgets, which today seems practically a fact, adopt a decree-law that increases public pensions and salaries of officials. They have both paid as the most than the policies they have rescued with the money of all the poorly managed banks without demanding responsibilities or the return of the money invested. It will be interesting to see what happens in Germany with Deutsche Bank in the next few days to see that perhaps there are other possible policies with banks. The paralysis in the constitution of a new Government must not, as always, pay for it. We therefore agree with the proposal and the amendments tabled by Unite Podemos and confluences. But let me make more than one point. It is true that the lack of government and of draft budgets obliges these changes to be made by decree-law. I totally agree. But there is another less literal reading, which arose from the context a month before the deadline for proposing a new President of the Government is over. Is it no longer a priority to form a government of change, a progressive government? It seems, MPs and MPs of the PSOE, that by proposing today a lesser evil, or a greater good, they renounce the best to make a progressive government, throw the towel and settle by omission with new elections. What internal problems can force such a situation? You'll know. But if today a progressive government is important, it is essential to change the laws of the PP that have done so much harm to so many people, certainly it is also necessary to change a hegemonic account of the right, the old and the new; that of the 'Spain one, large and free'; that of the inheritance of Francoism; that of the articles of the Constitution written with sounds of sands, like musical thread, almost forty years ago; that of the speech of the failed investiture of Mr Rajoy, this unique thought of the unity of Spain. A new account is needed to converge on a democratic alternative for Catalonia accepting its right to decide, a referendum to the Scottish or Canadian. This is not an obsession of my group, it is the guarantee that the change is true and that it is not a replacement of governing groups, that it is not a dynastic turn again. For some, the time has not passed and I recommend the published letter from the daughter of the Carnicero de Badajoz, Yagüe, to my colleague Gabriel Rufián. Yagüe was a general of the Civil War, homologable to an SS grouppenführer. Forty years of Francoism, forty years of nostalgia from the heirs of the winners. The report coincides with that of the Minister of the Interior when he tells us that we want to win the war we lost forty years later, when what we want is to end it, because we only end a war if we place the victims and the executioners in the same place as in the rest of democratic Europe. We will approve his proposal, but the most important thing is to remember that we are still in time to break this vicious circle of elections that always lead us to the same government in office, which always lead us to the Rajoy government. The voters represented by the 180 Members who are the majority in this House deserve something more than not to Rajoy, who is very well; they want an alternative that breaks with a past that does not cease, they want us to give them hope. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u41	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today Mrs Rodríguez and her parliamentary group - or what is present with her - are presenting us with a non-legislative proposal for the Government in office to approve, by royal decree-law, in the event of the extension of the General State Budgets, the increase in pensions and the salary of our civil servants. That is to say, you, who have been blocking the legislature since June; you, who have criticized the People's Party for its use of this instrument, the royal decree-law - better known as a decree - as a roll in your policies; you, who have told the Spanish citizens that they do not want to take us to third elections but that already in the summer they gave headlines like this: Sánchez insists that the PSOE will vote not on investiture and budgets - that is, he would vote not on budgets without reading them - ; you now present an initiative like this? [[Show a document]] [[Applauds]] I think they are already moving at levels of contradiction and hypocrisy that reach stratospheric levels. Because if you are really concerned about the revaluation of pensions and the salary of our officials, you have it very simple, it is very easy: to prevent the extension of these state budgets, to release the legislature - we have been saying this -, to allow the formation of a new government, to allow the legislature to move, to abstain or, if you prefer, to make a technical abstention, to allow, as it should never have been, to relegate from this House. Stay in the opposition, as we are going to do; we will be in a responsible opposition, add that responsible opposition alongside us. Citizens, since entering the Courts in December, have tried to unlock the situation in all ways. In February we reached an agreement with you, with the Socialist Party, a government agreement on the reform measures that this country needs, and it was in the investiture of Pedro Sánchez, a failed investiture. Subsequently, after the elections, we reached an agreement with the People's Party on 150 measures, but the novelty is not that citizens' ability to reach agreements and negotiate has been demonstrated, but the novelty is that we have found a framework of 100 measures from which a reformist government and a government can be set up within the constitutional framework. You speak of an extraordinary and urgent need to increase the pensions and salaries of our civil servants. We are not going to deny that we believe that it is extraordinary and urgent, but our question is: Do you not believe that it is also extraordinary and urgent to establish a new framework of labour relations that will put an end to the precariousness, as our colleague Antonio Roldán said, of 7 million poor workers? Do you not think that it is also extraordinary and urgent to carry out a comprehensive reform of the self-employed regime, which is the greatest creators of wealth and the greatest creators of employment, some 600 net jobs a day? Don't you think it is also extraordinary and urgent to reassemble the Toledo Pact in this House to support our public pension system? Don't you think it is extraordinary and urgent to put on the table a national pact for education, so that education is not used by the various political parties for electoral purposes? Or do you not think it is also extraordinary and urgent to put in place a plan to combat child poverty? Because these and up to 100 more measures are in that space of 100 measures that we have agreed between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and us to push forward that government we are talking about. All of these reforms could be launched tomorrow if you wanted and sat down to talk. Returning to the GNP, I want to say that Citizens will give their vote in favour, as it cannot be otherwise, even if you do not speak of any amount, but we understand that the revaluation of pensions will be carried out in the terms legally established by Law 23/2013 and we will see in what terms the salary of officials is increased. I would like to ask you from here to conclude that you are responsible, that you are constructive in the search for a political solution, that you stop blocking the legislature, that you feel like negotiating and that, please, you agree that concern and commitment with the citizens, putting the interests of the citizens ahead of the interests of the party itself, is demonstrated by facts and not by statements like these. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández de Moya Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow my first assessment, before going into full discussion of what this non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group means, to be a reflection aloud. Mrs Rodríguez, you have used up to four times the word blackmail, let me re-emphasize that expression by telling you that you no longer blackmail the whole of the Spanish nation and no longer block the formation that the Government needs already in the field of this country as is Spain. Because you with that blockade, it is true that for the personal interest of your secretary-general, you are blackmailing the entire Spanish society, not respecting the winner of the general elections who has all the legitimacy to form government and implement all these measures. [[Applauds]] Mrs Rodriguez, I would like you to come up to this rostrum - curiously you haven't -, remember - and I do know I will - what you did with the pensions when you ruled: Zapatero performs a dramatic social cut. [[Shows a clipping of the ABC newspaper]] You have frozen pensions, you have lowered the salary of public employees and you today have not had the courage and political honesty of instead of making a non-law proposal, bringing a proposal of law to the legislative sphere because you are also blocking it in order not to launch this legislature. Mrs Rodríguez, I invite you to read the Supreme Court ruling 8303/2005 of 2 December 2005 on the validity of a royal decree-law by a government in office. The ninth legal basis reads: In the end, the ordinary law of public affairs includes all those whose resolution does not imply the establishment of new political orientations nor does it mean conditionality, commitment or impediment for which the new Government is to be set. This quality, which excludes a matter from the ordinary law, must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account its nature, the consequences of the decision to be taken and the precise context in which it should take place. First, therefore, the decision to raise staff salaries is a particularly relevant political decision, but it is not just a political decision, it links the Government irreversibly, as it involves a commitment to spending and affects the future of the budget. Secondly, the decision to raise the amount of pensions translates into exactly the same budgetary terms, but with a variable, Law 23/2013 of 23 December, which regulates the sustainability factor and the revaluation index of the social security pension system. That law, which was passed by President Rajoy's government, which automatically revalues pensions, which you voted against, voted against, and which now, when it comes to 1 January of next year, regardless of whether or not there is a budget extension, the 9.5 million pensioners, with their vote against, will be revalued by a government of the People's Party, with the vote against the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] Therefore, do not come here to give any kind of lesson, because you talk about pensions and public employment, but what happens in the budget extension with the housing rehabilitation aid programme? EUR 550 million in the air for the budget extension for the blockade of the PSOE. What about the National Drug Plan? For the Socialist Party's blockade, in the air. What about the National Plan for Social Inclusion? By blocking the PSOE, in the air. What about the gender-based violence program? By blocking the PSOE, in the air. What about the equality program? By blocking the PSOE, in the air. So, Mrs Rodríguez, there are many issues that we need to address, but also with the calm, no doubt, that pensioners can be very calm, because it was a People's Party government that shielded pensions. When you talk about the pension hedge, be careful. Explain to the Spanish society as a whole that you with a structural deficit in 2010 and 2011 stopped entering nothing more and nothing less than 15 billion euros to guarantee the public pension system in our country and that, in addition, your vast majority also dedicated it to the massive purchase of public debt in Spain. Gentlemen of Podemos, there is basically something that I do not resist putting on the table, because it seems extraordinarily important to me. You come here to talk about pensions, but there are two models that are your reference: Venezuela and Greece. [[Show and read two documents]] The Greek Parliament approved the reduction of pensions and the increase in taxes. Venezuela has not paid its retirees in Spain for nine months. That is the model you practice where you govern and, therefore, that is the model we do not want for Spanish pensioners. Both pensioners and public employees can be very calm about what a government means that has always defended the public pension system and has never frozen pensions, despite the bankruptcy and ruin in which the PSOE left the Spanish nation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Rodríguez García, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u46	No, I'm working on a transactional in terms of only public employees and the call of the Civil Service Bureau. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, on the elimination of the 'Grateful Powers'. [[File number 162/000127]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u47	We move on to the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the elimination of'swivel doors'. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Iglesias Turrion has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u48	Thank you, Madam President. José María Aznar, Endesa. Felipe González, Natural Gas. Josep Piqué, Vueling. [[A Ujier lays a glass of water in the rostrum.]] Thank you. For this he could be drinking water for a long time. Elena Salgado, Endesa. Rodrigo Rato, Telefónica, Bankia, Santander. Pedro Solbes, Endesa. Arias Cañete, Ducar. Narcis Serra, Caixa Catalunya, Gas Natural, Telefónica. Eduardo Zaplana, Telefónica. Javier Solana, Acciona. Pio Cabanillas, Endesa. Isabel Tocino, Enagas. I do not know if you remember, ladies and gentlemen, an announcement of a well-known battery brand, in which a bunny came out. The bunny could be hours, hours and hours reading the names of former ministers and senior officials who have ended up on boards of directors of strategic companies. The problem with this, even if it's legal, because it's legal, is that it's corruption. It is legalized corruption and humiliation not only to democracy, but also to the people of our country, because it is a lie that these people are working there. That's not working. Does Mr. José María Aznar work in Endesa? Did Mr. Felipe González work in Natural Gas? When I say work I mean get up at one hour, go to your job and stay in it for eight hours. They are on boards of directors making a lot of money and are not there for their qualification, for their preparation in the energies, but because thanks to the citizens voted to them to be representatives of popular sovereignty they acquired through their public office a series of contacts and influences that these strategic companies buy. I buy an ex-politician to turn him into a commercial and make money. A socialist friend told me a long time ago: of course, Paul, but the problem is that if we ban this in the end only the ex-politics of the right go to the boards of the big companies. What happens is that I have the impression that no ex-politician, no ex-minister, no ex-president is on a board of directors of a big company to defend people. Can you imagine Mr Aznar, Mr González, Mrs Elena Salgado, Mr Rodrigo Rato, Mr Pedro Solbes saying to one of these energy companies: We are not going to allow you to leave any Spanish without heat and without light because that is a shame, because it is a shame that in my country there are energy companies, companies that have received favors from the governments of this country, that due to poverty come to Spanish families, that cannot pay, leave them in a G-20 country, in a European Union country without heat or without light this winter. Do you imagine one of those former ministers or one of those former presidents defending this position on the board of directors of a strategic company? Neither do you and I, because you go there to take it raw, to make a lot of money, to understand that position as a sort of golden retirement after you've signed a contract with the citizens and that's corruption, even if it's legal. [[Applauds]] What I am saying is absolutely cross-cutting, it does not divide the people of our country. 99% of Spanish citizens consider it a shame that there are ex-ministers and ex-presidents who sit on boards of directors of strategic companies, vote what they vote for. Therefore, if there is a consensus like this in our country, why do we not ban once and for all, without legal traps and without small letters, the presence of ex-ministers and ex-presidents on boards of directors of large companies? Because no one has ever been able to give an argument to justify that presence, because that is legal corruption, because that calls into question the very foundation of democracy. Corruption, ladies and gentlemen, is not only missing fingers to count those accused and investigated for corruption in the People's Party. It's not just that. I wish it were just a sum of indignities in a game! Corruption is a form of government that allows those who do not stand for election to be sent. Those who do not run for election but who have a lot of money and a lot of power, through the 'rotating gates' buy people like you. They buy them in exchange for money to act as their commercials, as their sellers and as their links in foreign countries. That is a mockery of democracy, because democracy is based on the fact that ultimately representatives of popular sovereignty do not respond or represent the boards of directors, but rather represent people. [[Applauds]] That is why, with this non-legislative proposal, which we hope will come forward and which goes in the direction of similar proposals that we have put forward at legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Communities, we want to urge the Government to promote clear regulations so that that infamous list of names that we may be reading here for hours is part of the history of our country. Spain deserves never to be ashamed of the fact that there are former ministers and former presidents sitting on boards of directors of strategic companies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u49	For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Matute García de Jalón is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be brief and, as it is said, I'll go hard and to the gum. More than a year ago on social media there was a news that ran like gunpowder and said something like that a former president was trapped in a revolving door and was rescued by the firemen. The former president was Felipe González. The news proved false - it was of a satirical medium - but it did not stop closing a great poetic justice and also good doses of truth - it has been remembered before by the proposer of the initiative, that we will support from Euskal Herria Bildu, a series of names of politicians who have passed to boards of directors -, and I say that it closed a great part of truth because Felipe González passed to the board of directors of Gas Natural Fenosa with a precarious salary of 127,000 euros a year; Aznar enlarged the ranks of Endesa with a contract of scholarship of 200,000 euros a year, and De Guindos was lucky to have a contract in practice for 368,000 euros a year in the company Endesa. That is the reality that Spanish politics has adorned on the same day that black cards continue to light up a society that is increasingly tired and tired of so much corruption and so much nepotism in the use of power. We will support the initiative because we want explanations and action. We want to know who's who on each side of the door, we want to know who greases the door and we want to know who really rules here. Today there is neither the Government, which formally commands, nor those who really command, which are the leaders of transnational corporations. To conclude, I simply want to say that on the part of Euskal Herria Bildu we could only give explanations - and just as we the Minister of the Interior could also give them, if he were here, because he knows us very well - on how not to take advantage of the institutions for own profit. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u51	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum to defend the amendment of the Catalan Democratic Party in relation to an issue as interesting, important and necessary as that raised by Mr Iglesias this afternoon. We very much agree with what you say. We share the need to stop the trapicheans, corruption and all this kind of violation of ethics and political ethics with very important names of their own, but, as you well say in the non-law proposal, we have a plus of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have to come and do a job that, while it is necessary to hear the voice of the street, we have to give it rigour so that it can succeed in a good initiative that brings transparency and allows for no professionalisation in politics but that good professionals move on to make policy so that the whole country can benefit from its good work and its knowledge. It is necessary to address this sensitive issue - in our view - from a calm dialogue. While we can understand why you use words such as absolute and permanent prohibition, it is logical that we can think or say that this necessarily does not involve transparency, and less so in the country of the Lazarillo de Tormes and Rinconete and Cortadillo. It is therefore appropriate to facilitate greater transparency, especially in order to be able to follow the path and, for example, to regulate the legislation of lobbyists and interest groups with specific measures. A 10-year-old quarantine. Do you always need a 10-year-old quarantine for a good professional - imagine, Mr. Iglesias, a nuclear energy professional - to come and serve for a certain period of time as an advisor? Is it necessary that I cannot go back in ten years to doing what he knew to do perfectly? I think we'd do each other a little favor. We propose that you open up the intention of this non-law proposal that we share, but that we want to work to make it work, so that in the new anti-corruption commission that we are going to create we can incardinate a subcommission that works in this line, that undertakes to optimize the resources that exist, such as the Office of Conflict of Interest, and that it does not depend on the Ministry of Finance, that depends on this House, L'Oficina Antifrau de Catalunya style. There are many examples. If I do not want to accept ours, I would propose a compromise amendment in voice so that we can reach a consensus and give a clear message to the public that we are not pre-campaigning, but that we want to solve their problems, open their amendment, try that we can join in a text with which you logically feel comfortable and be able to establish a subcommittee within the new committee that we are going to create this afternoon against corruption and in favour of transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u53	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, clientelism threatens the economic future of Spain. This is the thesis that is held among the most prestigious economists in our country. I recommend, among others, the reading of the very interesting article by Josep Pijoan-Mas and Manuel García-Santana entitled Growing like Spain, Growing like Spain, whose conclusions have been endorsed by Transparency International and which are simply demolishing. The clientelism in Spain has led us, ladies and gentlemen, to the consumption of 4% of the gross domestic product between 1995 and 2007, or what is the same, the capitalism of friends would cost us some 47.5 billion euros a year, as also denounced at the beginning of 2015 the National Commission on Markets and Competition. The analysis of the years leading up to the crisis shows a paradox: when the economy grew, surprisingly, productivity in our country did not do so, because in each sector resources were allocated not to the most productive companies, but to those that had the best relations with the governments in charge. We are in a client capitalism, we are in a capitalism of bite that is reflected in the boards of directors, a clear case of legalized and deferred corruption. I believe that citizenship is already very tired of this situation. The'swivel doors' and all the parasitic corporatism that has been built around them are a very important problem that needs to be addressed now. We must penalize clientelism so that it ceases to look normal, and this is what we have to vote on now. Compromís supports this non-legislative proposal, because we are committed to renewing the confidence of citizens in politics, because we must bet on the democratic regeneration of our institutions and because we must be, ladies and gentlemen, an example of transparency and political and public responsibility. This is what led us, for example, to the adoption by the Valencian Courts, on 14 April, of the proposed law of incompatibility and conflicts of interests of people with non-elected public offices, an initiative of Compromís with the support of Podemos and the Socialists, an example of what a government of change can do. We would have liked this text to have come here as a bill. That has not been the case, but if the parliamentary procedure were to begin - we trust this - for its conversion into law, we would like the scope of its first point to be clarified, for legal certainty, and to be defined more clearly what is to be understood when referring to strategic sectors of the State in the text, because that reference is very indeterminate. Otherwise, congratulations on this proposal. We hope that it will soon be able to deploy its full effectiveness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u55	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a GNP for the elimination of 'rotating gates'. We share that the issue of'swivel doors' is a serious problem for Spain, one more face of the capitalism of friends that Citizens have been denouncing. In this case, there are clearly conflicts of interest between public and private activities, which, in addition to being ethically reprehensible - we hope to work so that they can also be reprimanded from a legal point of view - pervert the functioning of the free market and cause certain companies not to compete on equal terms. Therefore, it is a matter of concern to us, and we agree on that. We have put forward possible solutions to this issue in our electoral programmes. We have agreed possible solutions, first with the Socialist Party, in the previous legislature, and then with the People's Party, in this legislature, in those pacts, first of government and then of investiture against them. It's good to regulate these situations. In other respects, the Podemos Group and the Citizens Group will hardly be able to do things together, but we will be able to work together to try to solve this problem. It is such an important problem that it is not solved, let me, Mr. Iglesias, with this chaff that you have presented to us. It is such an important problem that it is not solved with an incomplete, unscrupulous and dangerously ambiguous GNP. It is dangerous to legislate with pamphlet techniques, which is the feeling that this GNP produces for us. It is a problem that deserves attention and good legislative technique - although in this case we are talking about a GNP - to provide efficient and effective solutions that will tackle it. In point 1 you are speaking, as another spokesman has already said, of absolute prohibitions on being a high-ranking company in a strategic sector. I know what you're thinking; it's a problem we share. We're thinking about that list of ex-presidents and ex-ministers that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u57	Excuse me, Your Honor. Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u58	... we don't know whether they work for large companies or not, but they actually charge for them and we don't know why. But with that text that you have presented to us no person who has been a high office in the public administration could be administrator of a small transport company. Yes, Mr. Churches. We need to fine-tune the legislative technique. The pamphlet is not valid for legislative purposes and it is not valid for approving texts in this House. [[Applauds]] The'swivel doors' must indeed be eliminated, but, as the previous spokesman told me, do not exclude the talent of civil society, which can lend it to the Administration and then return to that civil society; obviously, without conflicts of interest. If not, in the end, they can only be high-ranking university professors; it is good that they are, but more talent must come from civil society and should not be expelled from public administration. That's as far as point one is concerned. With regard to point 2, in fact, we believe that the deadline is excessive. We propose five years, but that could be discussed and we could reach agreements. We believe that it would also be good to add indirect activity, which is why many former senior officials are skipping the current incompatibilities legislation, and that is why we have also added it to the amendments we have tabled to your non-legislative proposal. Then there is what is not regulated, what is missing, which is almost everything in that GNP. What about the Members' conflicts of interest? What about the'swivel doors' in the judiciary? We propose the same deadline so that judges cannot enter and leave and return to their posts. What about advice to foreign powers? Perhaps we should also regulate it, Mr. Churches, so that we are not governed by those who have not voted. [[Applauds]] In any case, it is too important to get rid of it with a two-point GNP and, therefore, I too believe that we should take it to that anti-corruption Commission and for the transparency it is going to start working in this Congress. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u59	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, at the political conference of the PSOE in 2013 we dealt with this and other matters with great peace and quiet. On that occasion, I said that the 15-M movement had asked the right questions, but that it was not able to give the right answers because of its own refusal to articulate politically or to establish political spokesmen that would allow it to enter or exit beyond the square. You assumed part of that political heritage. I think they did it with intelligence. They picked up flags from the ground that the traditional left apparently did not dare to collect and translated them into politics. But I am afraid that by inheriting that inheritance, they have also inherited - apparently, at least, by reading your proposal - the difficulty of moving from the muses to the theatre. As far as I can see, I will agree with one of the colleagues who preceded me in the use of the floor. You and your colleagues sometimes take an attitude in Parliament, in politics in general, of analysts, of academics. You describe, they're descriptors, but here we come to prescribe. I believe that in that leap from pure analysis to proposal is where what you present us fails, at least in this case. It is not enough in Parliament to make a good analysis and, of course, it is not enough to read the long list that we have read of people who have used these 'rotating doors', because here we come to move forward and propose solutions. I say this because we share with you the concern about the phenomenon of'swivel doors' and we share a good part of your analysis, but even starting from it, the conclusion you come to seems difficult to share; it is a kind of flight forward, a kind of we are going to throw the child with dirty water, because to nullify the effects of'swivel doors' propose a solution as simple as counterproductive. Now there is a two-year ban on a high-ranking position going to work for a company whose business has had a direct relationship with it; yet you turn it into an eternity, literally. Ministers, undersecretaries, secretaries-general, government delegates, ambassadors, technical secretaries-general and directors-general, who are officials, could never again work in any company in the strategic sectors of the country. Practical conclusion: a Director General of Recruitment of the Ministry of Defence, thirty years after he ceased to be, could not be a consultant on a local television, because in the drafting of your proposal you say that you will not be able to work in companies of strategic sectors. If they had put'strategic undertakings', we would know what we are talking about; but if their proposal says'strategic sector undertakings', any transport undertaking, any telecommunications undertaking, any audiovisual undertaking could be understood that way. Therefore, it seems to us that starting from a reasonable analysis - which we can share to a large extent, as the fellow citizens have done - in the end we come to an erroneous and contradictory conclusion. You say that the Director General of Recruitment cannot be a part of a board of directors throughout his life and yet that of the regulatory body, which has had a direct connection with the economic world, only puts him ten years. In other words, a director-general who has never in his life played a role that has to do with a company is forbidden for life; however, for the members of a regulatory body, which by its very nature will have relations with those companies, they propose only ten years. Therefore, I think we need to fine-tune the proposal beyond the nose. I believe that with the absolute and permanent proposal there is a problem of unconstitutionality, because there is a kind of violation of the principle of prohibition of arbitrariness. To tell a person that forty years after having a responsibility he cannot work in a sector, sincerely, presents problems; he would also have them from the point of view of retroactivity, but I am not going to make a teacher intervention, I am not going to make only a description, but I want to move forward. On the other hand, the concept'strategic sector' is very vague. It should be clarified, because neither you nor our own rules clarify it and, therefore, there is another hole in your argument. There is another issue that has been touched on in part by Mrs Ciuro, and that is that the trend in the European Union is the opposite. I am not saying the opposite in the sense of putting ex-politics on the boards of directors, but the opposite in the sense of bringing in non- Sunday advisors, non-executive advisors representing not only the interests of shareholders, who will always be aimed at maximizing profit, but taking into account the interests of suppliers, users and customers of such companies. Let's look at it from that point of view too. In addition, I must say that these types of non- Sunday advisors have allowed a large presence of women on boards of directors, something else we certainly would not have achieved. This has to do with something we'll talk about at another time, which is how today the citizen feels helpless not before his or her city council, but before Telefónica, before Google, before Apple. That power relationship is the one we have to examine. That is why we propose to pass the technical discussion on how we articulate this issue to the Commission of democratic quality. You propose for eternity, we propose five years reviewable and other colleagues propose five years. I would like to show you that there are difficulties with your text to conclude that we can approve the political proposal to put an end to the'swivel doors', but we need to discuss the other technical issues in committee calmly, because the matter deserves that attention. I think things are missing; parliamentarians are missing and there is a lack of interpretation of the independence of the Office of Conflicts. Anyway, I'm glad your game is going slowly but with a little more security going from muse to theater. Welcome. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u61	At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u62	Thank you very much, President. The GNP on the elimination of the'swivel doors' that we are discussing today suggests a double reflection on the explanatory statement and on the concrete measures, which will in part coincide with the statements and arguments of the spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the floor. PNL claims to be born to deal with cases in which a former senior position with high responsibilities and salaries is incorporated into a private enterprise, which, it continues to be said, when it does not occur in a situation of transparency, generates an ethical and ethical problem due to the interference of the private interest in the public. It therefore proposes a system of incompatibilities appropriate to social and political reality, which serves as a basis against corruption and renews democratic confidence. In this explanatory statement we draw attention to the fact that the focus of the problem of the move from a high office of the General Administration to a private company is on the lack of transparency - according to the explanatory statement - of that step and not on the conflict of public and private interests of the outgoing high office and of the company to which it is incorporated. Today - it has to be said - since Law 5/2006, passing through the current 3/2015, there is objectively no problem of transparency, regulation or enforcement. What is different is that the regulation in its case does not satisfy us, but it is different from the lack of transparency. It also draws our attention to the explanatory statement that when a proper regulation is called for to the social and political reality of today, it is done without concreteizing or defining what that reality is given, although it can be inferred from the reading of the proposed part of the initiative, when the absolute and permanent prohibition in strategic sectors of the State is suggested to one of the former senior officials contemplated by the norm. This limitation is absolute, even if the post held by the former senior official is not objectively related to the private sphere to which it is intended to enter. It is also classified as permanent, life-long, when private activity is projected in companies operating in strategic sectors of the State. The question is: What are these strategic sectors? Could culture itself be, as in France, a strategic sector? Could it be the university, because of the leadership talent formation of a society? In short, it is an open question. And do you not think this limitation, as has already been indicated, an exaggeration that does not respond to the social and political reality they claim to meet? Who's going to want to be a high office, when the limitations are going to haunt him for life? We believe that this, as some previous participant has said, impoverishes society. The second proposed measure, the reform of incompatibilities and the increase from the current two to the ten years the period of deficiency for the entire subjective scope of article 1.2 of the Act, also raises two questions. There is first of all an inconsistency between the first and second paragraphs of the proposal. An absolute and permanent incompatibility cannot be claimed in the former and in the latter - and for the same persons, in part - that the period of deficiency is for ten years. Nor do we share that the period of deficiency is so full - ten years - since in an accelerated, competitive and globalized world ten years out of an area, company or service involve the disappearance of it for life. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have been surprised by the broad outline with which the GNP under consideration is drawn up, and so we find it difficult to support it, although we will not oppose it either. I am sure that in such a delicate matter as this there can be improvements in the direction sought. Therefore, if the proposing group accepted any of the suggested amendments, we would change the disposition of our vote. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u64	Too late to all and so to all. Thank you, Madam President. When a country's economy adds an excessive weight to the regular sectors plus a mastery of customer relations, we have no problem, ladies and gentlemen, we have a real drama. The'swivel doors' in the Spanish state are a scourge institutionalized by the two big - no longer so big, if I may - Spanish parties. In fact, this is called corruption; if you want, legalized corruption, and if you like it more, corruption in deferred, but no doubt, corruption. Let me ask you a question: If an active politician uses the BOE to privilege an entrepreneur in exchange for a bite, do we speak directly of corruption? I suppose yes - you are already used to suffering in your ranks - of course, because it is an abuse of political power for your own benefit and directly against society. But what if the active politician favors an entrepreneur through the BOE and takes the bite years later in the form of a salary within his office in the Administration? What's this called? I'll tell him: he's called corruption in capital letters. [[Rumors]] This disgusting practice has been institutionalized for years, as I said... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u65	Excuse me, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. The speaker was not heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u66	He said that this disgusting practice has been the one that has been institutionalized for years among the politicians of the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. In fact, 7% of Ibex's advisors are ex-political. Your biggest spa is - it has already been talked about today - Telefónica: Urdangarin, Rodrigo Rato, Zaplana, the husband of the vice president in office and, of course, the great Andrea Fabra - I don't know if you remember, some of you do; I did, because I was that day -, the one who said without tapuchos that of: fuck. But we can continue: Acebes in Iberdrola; María Ángeles Amador, from PSOE, in Electric Network; Aznar in Endesa; Borrell in Abengoa; Felipe González in Natural Gas; Matutes in Banco Santander; Elena Salgado in Endesa; Javier Solana in Acciona, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Let me stop at one of the best greased rotating gates in the Spanish state, which leads us to the paradise of the electric sector. Do you remember the reform of the electricity sector? The one who approved the People's Party and tutored the protagonist of the summer, Minister Soria? Do you remember? Yes, it is the one that penalized just the self-consumption, which introduced retroactive regulatory changes for renewables and which also gave priority to the so-called tariff deficit, calculated at more than 30 billion euros. They remember her, don't they? Well, that reform served basically to benefit the oligopoly of five large companies in the sector, in connivance, of course, with political power. We can say, ladies and gentlemen, without wronging ourselves that the'swivel doors' between ministries and boards of administration of the big electrics are one of the main democratic deficits that exist; in fact, we can say that it really disgusts us. But the worst thing in this particular case is that, thanks to this privatization, energy poverty exists today. The'swivel doors' - attention - in this particular case - in many others too - destroy lives, ladies and gentlemen. So cruel. Democracy in the Kingdom of Spain is one of the lowest in quality. I'm going to tell you more, it's not even worth calling itself what my colleague Joan Tardà calls it, low-cost democracy. This democracy, Spanish democracy, is amigoism, is partyocracy, is'swivel doors', is voting discipline, is influence trafficking, is overs, is boxes B, etc., etc., etc.; a true orgy of the principles that allow any society to exercise democracy fully as the only way to live peacefully and in harmony in a society. The Catalan Republicans - and I conclude, Madam President - will support all those measures which strengthen democracy wherever it is and which, of course, end with this scourge. We will do so while we are building the Catalan Republic, a new State, a State that empowers citizens and makes them feel fully responsible and participative of their future, a State that regains confidence in the institutions that represent them, ultimately a republic guided by the values of equity, solidarity and tolerance, to build a country that looks as little as possible to this country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u67	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I came to this House convinced that all of us who sit here have come here with a public service vocation, but, hearing some of the speakers who have spoken before me, I regret to see how that public service has become public about the scant service that some people are offering to citizens. [[Applauds]] There has been talk of corruption here, and there is always talk of corruption in capital letters, but sometimes small frauds are overlooked, and I also find it a small fraud to the institutions, in this case to the Congress of Deputies, to present an initiative and then to use the time to defend it to launch a series of accusations and accusations on one side of the Chamber and not to present it. I will not defend the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen, although perhaps on this occasion all help could be good, but I will refer to my party, to the People's Party, to which I have the great honour to belong and to which I represent today in this rostrum. Some of these accusations that have been made attempt to upset the role of my political formation and of some of the politicians who have contributed to the fact that in Spain we now have a democracy of the most advanced in Europe, a country in which citizens enjoy one of the greatest fundamental rights letters in our environment, a country in which all of us sitting here have been able to run free elections, in which citizens have approached the polls to vote freely, in which we can all be debating here this afternoon with absolute freedom. I can understand that those who are young and have found themselves with all this done may not appreciate what it has cost to get it, but it has cost a lot, and in that work and in that work there has been a formation like mine, the People's Party, from the beginning, working so that this could become so. [[Applauds]] Lord Churches, you speak very quickly; I too, but I have listened very slowly to you. Now listen to me, because I'd like to tell you something. You have raised this initiative and you are the ones who define and decide what a revolving door is and what it is not, and you have used it for certain people who arrive at certain positions, but perhaps someone can think - and I say only at best - that a rotating door is also going to give a master's degree to the university or go back to a court to take up his position as judge. Someone can think that, ladies and gentlemen. Or are you going to decide what a revolving door is and what isn't? Or will it depend on who holds the position? I have heard of'swivel doors' for when politics is abandoned, but the revolving door, as its name indicates, turns around. Perhaps there are also'swivel doors' and conflicts of interest for those entering politics. At best - and I say only at best - someone may think that in the case of those judges or civil guards who join a candidacy waiting to receive the order to bring to prison those of the People's Party there can also be a conflict of a particular and personal interest with a general interest. [[Applauds]] ; or someone may think - and I say at best - that anyone who has been advising, defending or helping build dictatorial regimes can have a conflict of interest in a democratic system. Someone can come to think about it and nobody puts it in their faces and nobody puts it on the table. You like to assume that you are new in politics or are new formations, as I said before, but in the People's Party we have not waited for you to discuss this issue, which seems important and worrying to us, because it was a People's Party government that regulated the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State in a law, a law that collected and hardened a regime of incompatibility and regulated the exit of those high offices and their reinstatement into the labour market. What we are really talking about, ladies and gentlemen, is that if we want our system to work and work well, we must ensure and encourage great professionals to approach the Public Service and carry out their work there, bring their knowledge, their experience and their work, but then, as easily as we open the doors for them to get to this Public Service, when they decide to leave or when we decide to dispense with them, we must also facilitate their exit and return to the labour market. We cannot condemn them to civilian death and to labour death. Please note that we are concerned that in the agreement we have signed with Citizens, in point 107, we have included a commitment to continue to harden the incompatibility for the case of the termination of high office, and we would be working on that commitment already if this House, in an exercise of responsibility and democracy, had allowed the party that won the elections to form the government; that is also a fraud against democracy, and I say this to the Socialist Party's ladies and gentlemen. That is also a fraud against democracy, and I do not tell you, the citizens tell you, that election after election is losing confidence in their political formation, as the results of this last weekend show. Ladies and gentlemen, the formation of that government was not allowed, and today we are again here debating and voting on initiatives that we all know are not going to do any good if that government is not formed. I'm done, Madam President. Our obligation is to work for the general interest, ladies and gentlemen, not to generalize particular interests, because that is not what the citizens expect us to do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Turrion Churches, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u70	The spirit of some of the amendments tabled could be complementary, but they all raise the amendment of the point concerning the prohibition of'swivel doors', which is the fundamental subject of the non-law proposal. Therefore, we do not accept them.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u71	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GUARANTEEING THAT THE SUBJECT LIABILITIES BENEFITED BY THE TAX REGULARIZATION FOR THE YEAR 2012 MUST EFFECTIVELY AT THE TYPE OF 10 %. [[File number 162/000103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u72	We then proceed to the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to ensure that taxable persons benefiting from fiscal regularisation in 2012 effectively tax the 10% rate. For the presentation of this initiative, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, public accounts are not going well this year, but they were still worse in 2012 and it was in that breeding stock where we find indiscriminate increases in taxes, cuts in the welfare state and things called fiscal regulation, more and better known as fiscal amnesty. Recalling the classics, like Plato: justice is the firm and determined will to give each one his own. And raising taxes - which is what was done in 2012 - to those who already paid them, while taxing fraudsters was forgiven is anything but justice. In addition, that process of fiscal amnesty was not only unfair, it was a huge bump. This process basically consisted in the firm and determined will to give more and more facilities to the defrauders; that these defrauders, in some cases, were close to the parties that supported this measure - the People's Party in the Government and the party formerly known as Convergence - perhaps it is a coincidence but, in any case, it was not fair. Since we can't put a tax inspector behind every Spanish, putting some justice in the tax system is the only way to get the accounts squared and avoid indiscriminate tax increases and cuts in the welfare state. As I was telling you, the process of fiscal amnesty was not only a mistake, but a big one. During that period, there were a couple of issues that would be important to outline: first, a ministerial order that allowed for the regularization of cash. As you all know - it does not take to be a tax inspector to know - the cash is not traceable and therefore the serious risk of money laundering was and is there. [[Rumors]] There is a second question and it is that the tax amnesty did not meet any of its objectives and one of the fundamental reasons is the report that brings us here today, the report of the Directorate-General for Taxes of 27 June. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u74	One second, Mr. De la Torre. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u75	As your lordships certainly did not regularize, perhaps this motion is not so interesting to all of you. [[Applauds]] This report basically allowed for two issues: first, it established that tax declarations were not verifiable; that is, defrauders were allowed to do what they wanted literally. Secondly, this report also provided for very little taxation. It ended up taxing not 10% as stated in Decree-Law 12/2012, the amnesty rule, not 10% on the amount of the goods produced, but only 10% of the income of the last four years; that is, it ended up paying less than 3%. The results of the tax amnesty were a huge disaster. As we are telling you, even though EUR 40 billion was allegedly made, only EUR 1,193 million was raised, less than 3%. On the other hand, this money did not return to Spain and we know this because the calculations have been made on the basis of the declaration of goods abroad and, therefore, of the money that remained outside when we most needed it. The declaration of property abroad is a good thing of the People's Party government, that must be acknowledged, but it is also true that if, unlike what Mr Berlusconi has done for example, he does not have to bring the money back when tax amnesties are made, then the money is left out. Recently, the Ministry of Finance has said two things about tax amnesty. Firstly, those who accepted the tax amnesty have 82% more declared assets, which is fine. What he doesn't say, and yes the tax agency reports say, is that the tax return they're giving is 350 million euros a year. This is serious and is particularly serious for the following: because of the 40 billion outflows if they had paid 10% that they had to pay according to the decree-law, they would have given 4 billion and not 1,193 million. There are 2.8 billion euros that the fraudsters have not paid and that they should have paid to the public coffers. This ultimately leads to cuts and injustice. Consequently, this report, already in the previous legislature, was considered by the Committee on Finance and Public Administration to be a report contrary to the law. We propose here, first of all, that these statements that were accepted by the tax amnesty be reviewed, and it is an urgent task because they may be prescribing right now. November 30th is going to be nothing to do. Why? Because it will have been four years since the end of the declaration period and that for anyone who knows anything about tax law means prescription and impossibility of charging by the Public Treasury. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u76	Wait a minute, Mr. De la Torre. Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u77	Indeed, we are faced with an urgent issue. Those 2.8 billion euros that we should have recovered can and will prescribe on 30 November and, therefore, the Citizens Group brings this proposal, urging the revision. For what? In order for the fraudsters to pay 10% cash and not the gift that was given to them via the Tax Directorate General's report, because before demanding the first euro from honest taxpayers, including the large companies that this Friday are going to see their tax increase in the Council of Ministers, it is necessary to demand the law, the compliance of the whole law and even of a law as shameful as that of the tax amnesty to the fraudsters. [[Applauds]] To do so is essential - this is the second point that we take in this non-legislative proposal - to annul the internal orders that made the report of 27 June of the Directorate General of Taxes mandatory. There are reports that do not bother to sign them, perhaps because they are not worth even the paper on which they are written, but that have a very heavy cost to the Public Treasury - for all who are here and for those who have suffered most especially - a cost of 2.8 billion euros. These internal orders must therefore be annulled. Thirdly, we must begin to inspect, we must quote these taxpayers who did not comply with the laws, who accepted the tax amnesty but did not comply with the rules, in order to do so before 30 November. If these inspections start before 30 November, from there there are 18 months to make them pay what they should have paid from the start. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, not only do we need the latest euro that we can get from the tax amnesty fraudsters, but basically what we need in Spain is to restore confidence in the Treasury and the rule of law and allow the inspectors to go after the fraudsters. We cannot give up the fight against fraud and especially when, as is the case in this case, we have the fraudsters located and have not complied with the decree-law of the tax amnesty, despite being such a favorable rule. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that you must vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal because we must fight tax fraud and because we must start to die to renounce the fight against tax fraud and corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u78	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bel Accensi is speaking first of all by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u79	Thank you very much, President. Go ahead that we will support this initiative regardless of whether or not they accept our amendment, which is more technical than political, but we have to make a little memory, because the proposer has said that this regularization, as it was applied, was also approved by Convergence - I remind you that it was Convergence and Union at that time -. I recommend that you read the 'Diary of Sessions'. That was a royal decree that was validated by a series of measures. Our formation was critical with the first additional provision and was more critical with the implementation, because, in the end, what they are asking with this amendment is that the real decree be implemented, not the report that was later taken from the sleeve of the Directorate General of Taxes. In this we absolutely agree, because what was done at the time was that a rule adopted in this House was perverted, with all the necessary but approved criticisms, and the hypothetical prescription of those assets that could be believed to have been in the assets of the fraudsters in the previous four years was removed by means of a report. We understand this wasn't a receipt. If amnesty was already critical in itself, it was also the form of application - this progressive amnesty - because in fact it was an amnesty that the People's Party made progressive as it saw that it was not responding to it and they were generating incentives. In fact, two reports were made, one in July and the other in August, to try to convince people that they could carry out regularization. With our amendment, what we are proposing is that the report should not be taken into account in that it favoured not being taxed at 10%, but there are other parts of the report that could be perfectly valid and generate more legal certainty. In any case, beyond the doubts that this action may generate, our group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u80	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Today they bring us to debate, again, the tax amnesty, an amnesty that we did not want and that was done in the worst possible way. They benefited the privileged elites instead of rescuing people, and they lied, lords of the PP. First, we were told that it was not an amnesty, then we were told that it was necessary to raise money for the public coffers, then we were told that it would tax 10%, but it did not reach 3% and this resulted in 2,800 million euros less that was raised, that is, more money than the State General Budgets allocate to social welfare - by the way, budgets that they want to extend -. With which it is falling, with the rates of child poverty that we have, despite the unemployment figures, with cuts in public services, they preferred to forgive 2.8 billion euros to those who disappoint and they preferred, as I said before, to benefit privileged elites instead of rescuing people. From this lie people drew less money than ridiculously acceptable and, for their part, the elites cleaned up their shames. In your country, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it's very cheap to defraud, it's too cheap. Since Compromís we have not been tired, long ago we say, that in the Valencià Country we need fair funding. In 2016 the Valencia Country has given 1.4 billion euros to the state, money that we could have invested in public services, money that you deny us. Mr Rajoy here said that financing in the Valencia Country was not a priority. In the same legislature, 2.8 billion euros were forgiven to people like Rat or Barcenas, twice what we gave in the Valencia Country to the State. Money that leaves and does not return, money that we could have invested in Valencian education, Valencian health, Valencian social services. This is their priority, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: to benefit privileged elites instead of rescuing people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Azpiazu Uriarte now has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something. Today we are discussing this non-legislative proposal put forward by Citizens in a House in office or at least with a Government in office which, as it is responding to the democratic requirements of the Congress of Deputies, if this initiative is adopted, will also do so in office, that is, that the initiative will not work. Although we are sorry, because the substance of this proposal which seeks to correct a new fraud on the already executed action, as was the fiscal amnesty, is a matter of general interest and of enormous political and social importance, amen to, logically, economic. It is also possible that it may unfortunately go to the basket of papers, since the Constitutional Court continues to summer or sequester and does not manifest itself on two crucial issues affecting this matter. It does not do so with regard to the appeal raised on the regularization itself, the tax amnesty, nor does it with regard to how the Government in office should act when the House proposes initiatives or requests that the Government submit to parliamentary control, without forgetting, of course, the tradition of governments to listen deafly to the political impulse initiatives that are born of Congress. The Basque Group believes that the Government should take good note of the substance of the matter and act accordingly on the fraudulent fiscal amnesty of 2012, as required by the overwhelming majority of citizens. In its day, the Basque Group made a strong statement when the Government brought to its validation Royal Decree-Law 12/2012, called euphemistically fiscal regularization, but which everyone understood to be of fiscal amnesty, a term I think I recall that even some members of the Government - I don't know whether by slips or not - also used. It seemed to us, then, a shame and something unacceptable that people and societies who had defrauded or stolen, to say the least, the rest of the citizens by stopping paying taxes and even hiding their income and assets in tax havens deserved the forgiveness of the Treasury and paying only 10% of what was hidden, and even worse if in the end the percentage was 3%. These are people and companies with high incomes who, instead of paying the corresponding rate, 40 % or 50 %, only 3 % have been updated with the Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this subject underlies the idea that with a small confession mortal sins are forgiven. Well, no. The sin of defrauding and stealing citizens is not forgivable, it does not prescribe. The defrauder must be persecuted, as is often said, by land, sea and air. Those who fail are the causes of the cuts, of the reduction of social policies, of the increase of precariousness, of inequality and of a long etcetera that we all know perfectly well. That is why we consider the initiative to be timely and necessary, as the initiative says, for action to be taken before it prescribes and is impossible to recover the money that is intended. He said it was a shame about 10%, but more about 3%, so at least let's get the difference back, the remaining 2.8 billion amnesties. If it was, as they say, in the agreement between Citizens and the People's Party, I suppose it will be feasible and possible also legally. The Basque Group calls for action as soon as possible and decisively. This is how many initiatives have been put forward in this House in relation to amnesty and tax fraud. Our group also submitted a non-law proposal in September 2012 proposing the reform of the Criminal Code and trade laws to combat tax fraud. We defend, defend and support all initiatives aimed at combating tax fraud, corruption, tax havens, etc. In this case we have tabled an amendment to this non-legislative proposal. We hoped it would be accepted, but the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has already told us that they will not accept it. We wanted to add with our amendment an additional point, a point four, in order to be more forceful even than the initiative presented by Citizens and to ban new regulations and amnesties. We believe that the scope of the prohibition should be within the scope of the Government of the State and its Tax Agency, because it is within its jurisdictional framework. This is logical, since in the field of foral estates such prohibition or legislation in this respect is the responsibility of the general boards and the outlaws of the historical territories of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa or the outlaw government in the case of Nafarroa. By understanding and considering it in this way, the Basque Parliamentary Group, as I have said, expresses itself favourably in relation to the content of this non-legislative proposal. [[EAJ-PNV]] Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u84	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Saura García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u85	Thank you, Madam President. The law that passed the tax amnesty is one of the saddest pages in the history of this Parliament. In the 21st century, in a modern Parliament and in an open and modern society such as the Spanish one, a president of the government, Mr Rajoy, brought a law that is a gateway so that defrauders and white-necked criminals can go off with tax and criminal rositas. This law is a tailor-made suit so that certain leaders of the People's Party can leave with tax and criminal rositas. That is why I was telling you a few seconds ago that this law is one of the saddest episodes in the history of this Parliament. In a Parliament of the twenty-first century, in a deeply democratic Parliament, a law was passed to protect the white-collar criminals and defrauders of this country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, of course we are going to support the Citizens' initiative, but it seems to us insufficient. This law, in addition to being a gateway for those convicted, convicted and confessed criminals and defrauders to leave behind, was an expoliation to the welfare State. Ladies and gentlemen, the accounts do not have to be made of 10%, but of the marginal that each of the fraudsters had to pay and, moreover, with the fines and surcharges. For the low, 5 billion euros of expoliation to the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you that we are going to support the Citizens' initiative. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has worked intensively and has attacked fiscal amnesty for land, sea and air. The Socialist Group has gone to the Constitutional Court. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has gone to the National Court. The Socialist Group has asked the Court of Auditors to intervene. We have also rejected the Minister, asked for his resignation and asked for several committees of inquiry in Parliament to talk about the tax amnesty and its consequences. I told them that it seems basically insufficient for two reasons: fiscal amnesty is one of the Gordian knots of the current political situation. Mr Rajoy, the one who brought here this Royal Decree-Law of fiscal amnesty of 2012, cannot be president of the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen. This is the problem, this tax amnesty has to do with the political problem that our country has at the moment, Mr Rajoy's inability to have a majority in this Parliament; that is one of the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Rajoy writes to Bárcenes, 'I understand it, be strong, tomorrow I will call you' he knows that Mr Bárcenes has a fortune in Switzerland and in tax havens, and he also knows that he has welcomed a tax amnesty that was a custom-made suit, as has been shown, for certain leaders of the People's Party. Because in our country, ladies and gentlemen, there is no known corruption plot that has not received the tax amnesty, there is no corruption plot related to the People's Party in which in some way none of its members has received the tax amnesty. Therefore, the fiscal amnesty has to do with the political problem of our country, it has to do with the Gordian knot of Spanish politics. This is one of the reasons why Mr Rajoy does not actually get a majority in Parliament; because in another country around us Mr Rajoy would not be a candidate for President of the Government. This is the problem, which Mr Rajoy brought to this Parliament and in the 21st century a law so that the defrauders would go away from rositis, so that the criminals and people of his party would go away from tax and criminally. The second reason why the Socialist Party seems to be insufficient is that what we are asking for is legal changes to know exactly how many companies, what companies, what people took advantage of the tax amnesty. That is what we want to know, because in our country there is not going to be a complete democratic regeneration as long as we do not know the names of all those criminals, of all those fraudsters, and that can be done by Parliament. This is what we ask you to include Citizens because, I insist, what we are playing at is the credibility of the institutions, we are playing at the future of our democracy, we are playing at the financing of the welfare state and the credibility of citizens in the Tax Agency. Finally, we are playing with political responsibilities for such brutality against the welfare State and against the rule of law. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u86	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Asian González.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, works are love and not good reasons, and the facts believe that in the area of prevention and combating tax fraud very few lessons can be given to the People's Party. The results of the fight against fraud in 2015 have been 15,664 million euros, a record figure in the history of the State Agency of the Tax Administration. In 2011 this figure was slightly more than EUR 10 billion, i.e. it is now collected more than when the exercises related to the real estate boom were checked. Ladies and gentlemen, draw your own conclusions. And how has this record figure been achieved in the fight against fraud? Obviously with an appropriate regulatory framework, with more means, with better tools to control the assets abroad, so that today already a third of everything that is declared in Spain by the property tax comes from abroad. Goods and duties declared abroad in the property tax have increased from 12% in 2007 to 31% in 2015. And what happened to the declarants, the taxpayers who accepted the special tax declaration? They have increased their wealth tax base by 82% and have gone from declaring goods and rights abroad by 23 billion to 46 billion. Those who accepted the special tax declaration have doubled their declaration of property and rights abroad. What does this mean? What does this greater control of foreign assets mean? That the tax bases of other taxes be broadened. In the IRPF, those declaring goods abroad have declared 25% more in bases and quotas. Only in this detail, only with this influence, is it collected more for the positive consequences of the control of the heritage abroad than with the content of the citizens' GNP. But we are people of our word. We have entered into a compromise with Citizens and we are going to comply with it: we call for the point vote and we are going to vote in favour of the first point of the GNP presented by Citizens. We have done nothing extraordinary. Such regulations have been made in all European countries, including Denmark, Switzerland, Norway; in the United States, in China, in India. For all ideological spectra, from Greece from Tsipras to Argentina from Macri. It scandals us all that there may be people with hidden heritage on the outside, but scandalizing us does not solve anything. What would have happened if no extraordinary regularization was made? That we would not now be talking about foreign wealth, about widening the tax base, or about better financing of the welfare state. Whoever doesn't do anything, doesn't get anything. Therefore, doing nothing was no alternative for the People's Party. Nor was it an alternative to do what the Socialist Party did: opaque regulations with Treasury payers put into circulation by the government itself. The Socialist Government designed a specific instrument, the special public debt. This unusual instrument, in addition to allowing for regularization without identifying its holders, paid interest with public treasury money to the defrauders themselves. The fiscal policy phase of the socialist government has been characterized by the collapse of the collection, especially of large companies, and opaque regularizations; if not, they ran out to warn the holders of the Swiss account to regularize with mini sanctions. [[Applauds]] Therefore, it is not an alternative what the Socialist Party did. Sadly, we know what the Socialist Party does when it is in the government and, sadly, we know what it does when it is in the opposition: block and prevent government; come here and present a contentless GNP. What are the Socialist Government's proposals to prevent the hidden and unknown money from being regularized? None. I don't know any. They have been very critical, but they have not made a single proposal. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, I have to say that the process of regularizing the special tax declaration is not understood without the declaration of property abroad. Moreover, it cannot be said that the special tax declaration whitewashs unlawful conduct. The special tax declaration is for tax purposes only, and is perfectly compatible with the obligations imposed by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. As set out in the OECD's requirements, extraordinary regularisation has been achieved with transparency, tougher sanctions and tougher anti-fraud measures, to make it possible for all of us to pay less. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u88	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u89	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is a real scandal that tax regulation of EUR 40 billion has been allowed to be evaded by paying only 3% of taxes. With this decision, the evaders have been double-compensated. Firstly, because they are allowed to legally launder the escaped money. Secondly, because far from paying the 10% set up by the Royal Decree-Law they end up paying only 3%. In other words, while the Spanish Government has increased taxes on the middle and lower working classes and cut wages and rights, it has given €3 billion to the great fortunes that had defrauded the Public Treasury and kept the money stolen in tax havens. The tax amnesty was therefore again based on a great lie. It has been shown that the main objective was not to obtain greater income for the empty state coffers and to bring forth that which did not tax, but to allow the great fortunes... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u90	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u91	...but, as I said, allow big fortunes to regularize their evasive money at a modest price and without asking where it came from. The truth is that time puts everyone in their place and, allowing no €3 billion to be raised, the People's Party Government and Minister Montoro stand by those who lack the truth systematically; that is, the liars, the cheaters, the criminals. The 2012 fiscal amnesty was and is a scandal that only denies the People's Party. Fiscal amnesty is a major scandal; another scandal, not the only one, to which the People's Party has accustomed us. The objective, as has already been more than demonstrated, was not to obtain greater collection, greater income for the empty arks of the State, but, in the end, as always, it has served to favor certain people, certain characters, those always, those who fill the mouth of the nation but have their money in the so-called tax havens. For example, without going any further, a former minister of the current government in office, another deputy minister of his party, members and positions of his party, of the People's Party, and obviously also of some other party. The position of Squerra Republicana regarding tax regulations and tax amnesties has been and is clear. We did not agree with either the fiscal amnesties of the PSOE or with those that the People's Party has done on this occasion. We still do not agree and we will not agree in the future either here, while we are, or in Catalonia when we are an independent state, when we have a republic. The present non-law proposal is a seemingly well-intentioned non-law proposal, because what comes to do or only does is wash the face of a failed investment pact. This non-law proposal comes late and no one gets away with having a difficult execution. She's practically dead. We shall see; as the People's Party has said that it is only going to approve the first point of such a non-law proposal, it is clear that it has no will or vocation to comply with it. We agree with the need for regularized money to pay tribute to what was legally established. And, as I said, the government, a government in office, that of the People's Party, which is not accountable to this House or intends to do so, we believe, from the Republican Left, that it is not going to carry out this mandate emanating from Congress, because it is no accident that it has taxed 3% and not taxed 10%. In short, the motion of Citizens seems to us at this time to be effective, propagandist, electoralist, and the most interesting of it, from the point of view of the Republican Left, are the amendments proposed by the other opposition groups - and that Citizens, as he has said, will not accept -, as are the prohibition of future regularizations and amnesty and the measures to allow the identification of people, societies, etc., who have benefited and who have welcomed amnesty. In fact, it is especially graphic that Citizens - I am finishing, Madam President - have not accepted the amendment calling for the prohibition of future tax amnesties. You'll know why you do it. In any case, we will see life, or the short life and the prescription of this non-law proposal and the content regulated in it, while the legislature will surely expire again. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u92	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Bescansa Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, today, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is presenting to this House a non-legislative proposal which seeks to bring a little decorum to a totally unholy situation, to a history of infamy and caradure, to a story written with two hands by dogs and masters, to a story that told slowly - surely it is able to explain to the people - who is in charge here. Or rather, it explains to the people who send the gentlemen of the government that they are not here. Four years ago the gentlemen of the government who are not here approved by decree a fiscal amnesty and told the public - and it is not a joke - that this was a good measure to combat the public deficit. They then said that forgiving taxes to the rich who had piled up fortunes is not well known how they would manage to raise 2.5 billion euros. They told the people - they told us all - that although the workers, the small entrepreneurs, the self-employed, we contributed to 20, 25 or 30%, it was good for Spain that the rich defrauders had a special regime by which they would be allowed instead of taxing 45% to do so to 10%. I mean, between half and a third of what we have to pay everyone else. Done and done. In the midst of a social outcry, in 2012 the Government of the People's Party approved a fiscal amnesty that allowed some €40 billion to emerge, according to the sources of the Tax Agency. Four years later, in the dentel of prescription - that legal concept through which thieves and corrupt people in this country go from rositas without responding to justice and without returning a hard one - the 4 billion euros that should have been collected through that tax amnesty have flown and only 1.2 billion euros have been obtained. They're not hard on four pesetas, they're hard on pesetas. And what's best, in less than two months there won't be a single tax inspector in this country empowered to pursue those scoundrels, because this will indeed have prescribed. And, as sometimes happens, it was the press that did the work that the institutions should have done. It was the press that was in charge of explaining to us all who benefited from this tax amnesty. In June we met through the press some of the names... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u94	Wait a minute, Mrs. Bescansa. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. The speaker was not heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u95	We knew through the press who those beneficiaries were, or some of them, and I think it's important to remember their names because they might help us understand why they were made and for whom that tax amnesty was made. Alicia of Bourbon Habsburg: regularised assets, 2,300,000 euros; money paid to Hacienda 52,000 euros, representing 2.2% of the legalized money. Carlos de Borbón-Dos Sicilias: €1,250,000; money paid, €19,000, which accounts for 1.5% of legalised assets. Pedro de Bourbon-Dos Sicilias, prince of the Two Sicilias: 175,000 euros and paid 1,000, 0.6% of the legalized money. Cristina de Borbón-Dos Sicilias, princess of Parma and Dos Sicilias - the Sicilias come out a lot -: 175,000 euros, 1,000 euros paid, 0.6% of the legalized money. Isabel Fernández de la Mora: 640,000 euros, paid 4000, 0.6% of the legalized money. Pedro López-Quesada and Fernández-Urrutia, close friend of the Head of State: 230,000 euros, paid 273, which means 0.1% of the legalized money. What Citizens propose today is that we close with a little decorum an infamous story. Citizens ask us to support their proposal that these rich with a regularized fortune pay at least the 10% imposed on them by the tax amnesty; they propose that cleaning 230,000 euros cost the fraudsters 23,000 euros. 23,000 euros with which it is possible to pay the tuition of 20 university students in our public universities. 23,000 euros with which it is possible to pay fifty fellowships in the public schools of our country. 23,000 euros that it is possible even to invest them in the Tax Agency and collect 230,000 euros, because each euro that is invested in the Tax Agency is multiplied by 8 or 10 in its collection. Perhaps even, we could recover 230,000 euros from the fraudsters, who right now seem to be going out of their way. We will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal, but we are well aware that the fight against fraud and the fight against the deficit is not solved by fiscal anecdotes. We will vote in favour because not doing so would be against decorum, but we would have liked to see citizens' commitment to fraud in the European Parliament, voting for and not against the creation of a European list of defrauding companies to exclude them from any kind of public contract or grant. And yet in Brussels, not, gentlemen of Citizens; you in Brussels, when no one looks at it, vote with the PP to protect social dumping and labour fraud. The problem of the public deficit is not solved by cutting public spending on social services, nor is it solved by anecdotes like this, but by a progressive tax reform and a tax agency that has sufficient resources to fight against the big fraudsters. But of course, because this tax amnesty is a fact against decorum and its failure to do so is an infamy, we will support this House in urging the Minister of Finance to allow the Tax Agency to pursue caradures so that they will pay at least one third of what we all pay in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u96	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u97	Your Honor, we do not accept the amendments, some for technical reasons and in general to focus the debate on an urgent issue that you prescribe on 30 November. We do accept the vote on points requested by the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to the second item on the agenda. With regard to the proposals for the establishment of commissions and in accordance with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, the proposals for the establishment of the Joint Parliamentary Control Commission of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its Companies and the Joint Commission for the Study of the Drug Problem shall be submitted for approval by consent to the proposals for the establishment of committees, as well as the new points for the establishment of the Joint Parliamentary Control Commission of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its Companies. Instead - and also as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen - the proposals for the establishment of the Standing Committee on the Rights of Children and Adolescents and the Standing Committee on the Audit of Democratic Quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms will be voted on separately. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, these votes will take place together with the rest after the debate on the other items on the agenda is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u100	We shall now turn to the third item on the request for the establishment of committees of inquiry. As agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, the requests made by 84 members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry into Partisan Use in the Ministry of the Interior under the mandate of Minister Fernández Díaz, of the personnel, means and resources of the Department and of the State Security Forces and Bodies for public purposes, and the request of the Joint Parliamentary and Republican Left Groups for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry into the activities carried out by the Ministry of the Interior in order to destabilize Catalan policy and, in particular, the electoral processes in Catalonia. For the defence of your request, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Trevín Lombán has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have recorded Mr Fernández Díaz, and nothing less than in his office at the Ministry of the Interior, which would have to be one of the safest places in Spain. They have recorded it talking to the director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia while seeking information against political opponents of the People's Party. What was so secretly planned there was then known to all Spaniards through the newspapers. It was therefore twofold: on the one hand, it was clear that the minister responsible for national security could not guarantee his own; on the other hand, we discovered the murky party movements to which the minister devoted the hours he should devote to all Spaniards. After this episode, shameful for the citizens and humiliating for the minister, Mr Fernández Díaz did not provide any public explanation. How was such a breach in the security of your communications possible? Who was the author of this episode of espionage that left him so out of play? They announced an internal investigation; however, three months later we do not know if the researchers could even access the original recordings, we only knew that the investigation was carried out by Commissioner Sánchez Aparicio just two weeks before he retired. It appears that the minister wanted him to have enough time to get to the bottom of the matter. What results did you get? We don't know. After being in evidence, the minister now carries everything in secret. The only thing we know is that the Commissioner responsible for this investigation finally retired from the police and in two months he started working for Prosegur, a private security giant, as director of institutional relations. No further investigation, as we know, has been launched. In the face of such a serious incident, we hoped that the Minister would file a formal complaint with the prosecution. It didn't happen. Was it to prevent someone outside your department from snooping in the practices that are carried out in it? All this shows that something does not work in our rule of law. Mr Fernández Díaz in any other European country today would no longer be a minister: he would have left or he would have been thrown out, he would have been in his house and not in the blue bank. It is difficult to understand his situation and the support given to him by the President. We may have to suspect that all this support from Mr Rajoy is due to the judicial and police situation of so many cases of corruption in the People's Party. In the recordings made in his office the minister courted the then director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia to supply him with some fuel with which to start the prosecution machine against political enemies of the PP. As Iñaki Gabilondo said, 'hearing the minister at the full ceremony of the conspiracy, snooping, snooping, snooping, hoping to find garbage against his political opponents is a disgusting scene that also shakes us'. In the talks he said that all the weaving was sponsored by nothing less than the President of the Government. That is why we have presented this initiative, ladies and gentlemen. It's pretty explicit, but I'll sum it up. We want to clarify whether this Government and especially its Minister of the Interior have created a political police force and whether, as Mr Fernández Díaz said, the President knows everything. We need to know whether this is so simple and sinister, because such a well-founded suspicion is incompatible with democracy. The Socialists have been denouncing it for four years. The Ministry of the Interior has created a police clique for a double strategy: on the one hand, to hinder the investigation of corruption scandals affecting the government party and, on the other, to investigate and pursue relentlessly not only political opponents but also members of the National Police Corps who serve only the law. We had many indications and quite suspicions, now we have proof of their existence, the very voice of the minister. One of his worst flaws, gentlemen of the PP, is his understanding of relations with the government and the institutions. They confuse party with government, institutions with government. They do not understand that the police are not at their service but at the service of all citizens. The State Attorney General protested at the end of 2012 because two senior police officers were sent by the Government to Catalonia to request the Millet prosecutors to register the Convergence headquarters. None of them had the skills to do that. But there's a lot more. Three police officials declared in the judicial sphere that they were pressured or received orders to paralyse or conceal the investigation into the attic of Ignacio González, then president of the Community of Madrid. The Commissioner of Marbella, Don Agapito Hermes, was ordered by the Deputy Director of Operations of the Police to never continue with this investigation, to conceal it. Don Enrique Rodríguez Ulla, appointed by this government to the head of the Judicial Police Commissioner General, was ordered by the DAO to close the investigation, and Commissioner Villarejo confessed that the Director General of the Police, Mr. Cosidó, ordered him to paralyze the same case. The whole interior police dome to save soldier Ignacio González and everything to try to create a general cause against the Andalusian Autonomous Administration, ruled by socialists, for subsidies to training courses. The minister practices a very versatile game: the same goes down to defend the People's Party that goes up to attack the PSOE, and in the attack he does not walk with glances. Over the past year, we have heard a great deal of information about police actions affecting politicians of the Andalusian Board in the fields of employment and training. Many of them were based on reports on which - I open quotes -'real data are isolated, based on proven facts included in summaries, and mixed with other data from preliminary investigations, attributed to anonymous sources, not contrasted by anyone, in some cases false and in others many results from unsubstantiated findings'. This has been said by an eminent member of the prosecution. In Andalusia, the powers of the State are used to attack the political adversary. In Madrid, on the contrary, to cover the popular correspondent. In Andalusia, the government delegate announces arrests. In Madrid, the entire police dome works to prevent them from happening. The courts of Seville, Almería and Jaén found no criminal liability in charges against Board officials for subsidies to training courses, either because they did not appreciate for profit, or because they were normally held. To detainees, sometimes with excessive forms, for these cases, who now compensates them for the punishment of television already served? The Minister of the Interior, still in office, manages PP's private security better than anyone else, even seems to have set up a very efficient internal affairs department. Dissidents of popular dissensions also receive their deserved. Recently, the president of Castilla y León, Don Juan Vicente Herrera, publicly declared that he would ask for an official investigation into who had leaked the alcohol certificate from his resigned vice president and to ask for responsibilities in this regard, whoever falls, he said. Where there is a popular leader in trouble comes Fernández Díaz to undo the boredom. The same goes for Rato in the middle of the storm of corruption that surrounds him that reigns a ministry where apocryphal police reports are made against political opponents present in this same Congress, in which police charges are publicly crossed serious criminal charges, or he gets full in rock-rocked cases such as that of the 'little Nicolás', to whom other high government officials are also targeted, or he arbitrarily ceases two police commissioners for a photo in a national newspaper taking a coffee with me. Unfortunately, we can't take any of this as a joke. Yours is very serious. We are faced with multiple episodes that point to actions that are seriously suspected of corruption, obstruction of justice and police practices guided by partisan interests. At this stage there will be Spaniards who will be worried when someone knocks on their door at six in the morning. They won't know if it's Fernández Díaz's milkman or political police. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a constitutional system that entrusts certain functions to each power of the state, ensuring that everyone maintains a relationship between them that avoids the accumulation of power in few hands. This division of functions is an essential part of our legal system, and as such links all citizens, but especially the public authorities to which it is intended. That's what we call the rule of law. I'm finishing up. But the minister knows all this. The issue is not that it ignores the foundations of a rule of law. That would be bad, but what happens is much worse. Here we have two problems: a minister who believes that Fouché is reincarnated, and at the same time not paying attention to his obligations to the rule of law, and a president who tolerates it. With you the police have recovered the most sinister of their surnames, the political police have returned. What does that sound like to you? What does that sound like to us all? Do those police forces in the Communist countries and the banana republics perhaps yearn for? Or do you feel nostalgia for the regents of those dungeons of the Sun Gate? The minister is staining the good name of the police with these practices. But let's not be mistaken, not the whole police can come to that. Only a well-rewarded small clique accepts that role. The rest are effective professionals with all their democratic credentials recognized and praised by the citizens and have merit because their director general, Mr. Cosidó, has made a law to co-opt the police dome with its unconditional. Mr. Rajoy placed in the hands of Fernández Díaz something as sensitive, powerful and exclusive as the powers emanating from the Ministry of the Interior and he did not hesitate for a second to use all that arsenal to fortify his partisan positions and shoot at the discretion of the disaffected population. You, gentlemen of the government, must be held accountable and that is why today the Socialist Group is calling on this House to set up a committee of inquiry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u102	For the defence of his request, by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u103	President, ladies and gentlemen, because it is good enough for fair gentlemen in this country, because it is good enough to pass shame on others, because it is good enough to smell naphthaline and moral cilicate, because it is good enough for Vitos Corleone without honor and for Clemenzas cowards, because it is good enough for an urn in an electoral school to take you to the courtroom and a microphone to the office of a ministry, because it is good enough for gangsters in front of atrils and independenceists in front of judges, because it is good enough to chase stellates in stadiums and protect defrauders in congresses; because you have the guts to say that of 'we have loaded your health' in the waiting room of a public hospital in Catalonia, because you have the guts to tell a sick person in a hallway after six hours on a stretch. [[Rumors]] Have the guts.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u105	Because the desire to conspire is getting a little embarrassed. Because the only one who has told a truth in all this is his Tom Hayden, Commissioner Villarejo, which is already. Because you have microphones, money and lackeys and we just ballot boxes, squares, streets and determination - we'll see who wins. Because we understand that you do what you do because that's how you win elections in your country, but hardly in ours you compete for the last place with the PACMA and with the national orange front. [[Rumors]] Because Mr. Fernández Díaz went from pity to the fact that homosexuality threatens the survival of the species, to the fact that he meditates in the Valley of the Fallen and that he has an angel of the guard who helps him park, to disgust with the fact that 'this is the prosecutor's office that tunes it to you'. Because we are the memory of those who gave so much that they gave everything so that people like you would never win again. Because in a state where drug friends are the future of politics, what less do you explain. [[Protests]] Calm down.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u106	Quiet, please. [[The protests continue.-Mr. Matarí Sáez: Call him to order]] I request silence for the speaker to continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u107	Because even Nixon was embarrassed enough to leave. Because their morale is worth 1.5 million euros. Because today he is we have loaded his healing that said Fernández Díaz, but yesterday was the street is mine of Fraga, the cloacas of Barrionuevo, the kick in the door of Corcuera, the escapades to Laos of Belloch, the placidity of the Francoism of Major Oreja and the rings of plasticine of a certain Mariano Rajoy. Because it's not from us, it's not from a political party, it's from decent people against indecent people. [[Rumors]] It goes from who put us here to tell you that you only deserve to go through the trash of the blackest history of this country. Because I do want to win them a war eighty years later in the trench of a commission of inquiry. [[The Rumors Continue]] For everything, for everyone, for this. [[Mr Rufián Romero, with a tablet, shows a video of the Minister of the Interior Fernández Díaz and Mr De Alfonso]] What you've heard is the conspiracy of an honorless Vito Corleone, because if the crime is to be Catalan and independent, you only deserve this people, my people, to succeed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u108	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, for the defence of its initiative, Mr Homs Molist has the floor in the first place. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in October 2014, that is, just two years ago, there was a conversation that seems rather like a script of Mortadelo and Philemon and it is not. It illustrates some very serious facts. Thus says Minister Fernández Díaz: That would be the subject of the prevarication of Francesc Homs, that of the two sister-in-laws of Felipe Puig, but among the three folios you gave me the other day there was only one, eh? And De Alfonso says: No, no, it is that the other one is not important because the other one is sister-in-law; there are both, but the sister-in-law, where the bond is, who is married to the brother... I mean, I didn't even know exactly what the kinship was. And the conversation continues, saying Minister Fernández Díaz: This, if it is published, harms you, doesn't it? And the director of the Anti-Fraud Office answers him: He kills me, but, minister, if you want it to be published, I commit myself but let me close the file first - it is seen that it was not closed -, give him the bug - I don't know exactly what it refers to -, send him the proposal for a report saying that it has to be annulled, etc., and then, three or two months later, a journalist finds out, but now I haven't closed it or assigned it. And the minister literally answers him, "This is what the prosecution tunes you up to. We make a management. If you really do not realize the gravity of knowing this conversation is that you are not worthy to be representatives of anything or anyone. I mean it. [[Applauds]] This did not prosper because it had no meaning or legal basis - October 2014-. Then came November 2014 and that pissed them off in such a way and of such magnitude that, although the prosecution also did not consider that there was a crime in what we did on November 9, because it did not, they forced them to change the criterion, that is, they fine-tuned the criterion. This is the context in which this committee of inquiry is proposed. This, plus the other things that have been considered by other spokespersons, because it is not the only thing we have on the table or the only thing that unfortunately we have known. When we say and denounce that you have politicized, and in what way, in the most partisan and unworthy sense of the term, justice, we say it by knowing these facts. When it is willing to cross all lines, to use public money, to create a political police, to manipulate the prosecutor's office and even, if that were the case, to manipulate the judges of the highest courts to combat political opponents, it is that we are no longer in a rule of law or a democracy. And that is what you are promoting or trying to promote right now in this society and in this country, which you then say you want to aspire to represent. That is why we are glad, and in what way, that this committee of inquiry can finally be set up. And there goes a message for the rest of the political forces, because they have started with the Catalan independenceists, precisely because they do not think how they would like us to think, but then you can come, because you also dislike them. With this it would be worth turning around and taking advantage of the situation that we have to make clear what I think is the majority in this country: that these people, you, are not worthy of continuing to represent these institutions that you want to represent. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u110	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u111	It's not new. The pursuit of political projects advocating independence has been a constant before and after 1978. We already live it in Euskal Herria, to cite an example, when in 1998 the listenings were discovered at the headquarters of HB in Vitoria by the Cesid. But the fact that it is not an exception does not diminish the seriousness of what the Minister of the Interior has done. It is a clear indication of what we have been reporting on numerous occasions. In the Spanish State, the 1978 regime does not allow the defence of any political project such as independence and the incumbent governments have been making use of all the instruments in their hand to prevent it, leaving aside if necessary the rule of law they claim to defend. The case before us highlights the poor democratic quality of this regime, heir to the Franco dictatorship, which has in the PP, but not exclusively, one of its most faithful defenders. How to interpret if not that the Rajoy government had dedicated zero euros to the exhumation of corpses in compliance with the Historical Memory Law and had allocated 150,000 euros to the Francisco Franco Foundation? Or the statements of Minister Fernández Díaz himself, on the occasion of the exhumation of the Francoist generals Mola and Sanjurjo, justifying the fact that they were buried with honors in Iruña, placing him on the side of the winners? How is not a minister going to carry out political espionage of Catalan independence who intends to bury in the gutters, together with thousands of Republicans, the memory of what happened after the military uprising - let us not forget - against the established democratic regime? Minister, we want to look to the future, yes, but without forgetting the past. That is why today, 27 September, we remember here Txiki, Otaegi and the three FRAP militants, who were last shot forty-one years ago by Franco's fascist dictatorship. [[Applauds]] Because we want an inclusive memory and a democratic future at last, we will support any committee of inquiry that can be set up for this purpose. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u112	For the Joint Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Navarro People's Union has never endorsed any illegal action to defend the Constitution, the laws or our model of coexistence, and of course we are surprised that it is paradoxical that those who openly pose the greatest challenge to the rule of law and execute it, sponsor it and jail it in our country intend to set up a commission to know how a minister performs his duties. To you, gentlemen of the Republican Left of Catalonia, who have never stopped to think how much public money your permanent contempt consumes, who has never mattered to you the consequences of your systematic violation of the law or, more importantly, who are delighted to build a society outside the law, grounded in interested or invented grievances, I would ask you: if you do not respect the legislation that affects you yourselves, what legitimacy remains for you to demand other institutions to do so? None, none, and much less today. After announcing some groups to withdraw their request for the establishment of the Commission, as has been said at an internal meeting of the Joint Group, we already know that their concern about whether or not the law is being complied with is really null and void. In any case, we weren't going to support her. Moreover, I want you to know that, to the extent of our possibilities, which are few and limited, we will work within the law - not like you - so that your constitutional challenge, your announced secession, does not triumph. It's the worst thing that can happen to our country. We firmly believe that and in that direction we will work to the extent of our humble possibilities. Finally, there is a sister proposal from the Socialist Group that we are discussing together. Well, we're not going to support her either, because she doesn't seem credible or well-intentioned. I would ask Members of the Socialist Group, even Mr Trevín, if he were. If the minister were a member of the Socialist Party, would they support another party's request to set up a committee? No, no, Would they set up a commission for their minister in the same terms? Neither. Therefore, it is a proposal that has a lot of follow-up, opportunism and, if I may say so, electoralism, but little more. If I may be joking, it reminds me a little of that scene before that of the Marx Brothers' cabin, when Groucho is ordering breakfast and his brothers are telling him from behind that - they remember, don't they? - a couple more hard eggs. Well, that's what I think your proposal is. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u114	Since we did not request the use of the counter turn, we started with the position-fixing turn. Mr Legarda Uriarte spoke first of all by the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Three parliamentary groups are called upon, bringing together quite a few more than three electoral lists, to set up research commissions, turning both petitions on the same axis: the Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díez. They're stranded, and now we're treating them together. On a preliminary note, I have to say that neither the Basque Nationalist Parliamentary Group nor the Basque Nationalist Party nor myself likes stridences or scarecrows, and that is why I will go straight to the point, but I also say that we will lead on this issue only from rational facts and presumptions that can be deduced from them. And also on a preliminary note, I would like to say that, in our view, if the Minister of the Interior had submitted his resignation a long time ago, we would not find ourselves where we are. We believe that it would have been a good service to your country, to your Government and - do not doubt it - to your party as well. But now we are where we are, in view of the imminent establishment of two commissions of inquiry, and this we believe that it no longer has to go back and forth with the resignation or, if necessary, the cessation of the Minister of the Interior. He said we were going to be guided by facts. Thus, we consider it an uncontroverted fact that the Minister's talks about the dirty war against Catalan political leaders. They are unanswered conversations as to their existence and content. We have all listened to them and acknowledged their interlocutors. They constitute proof of office in the trial of political responsibility, which at least falls within the competence of this House. These talks, their content, should have led the minister out of any institutional responsibility - that is what would have happened in any country in our environment, in any country with a liberal democratic system - when he did not face responding to his actions before the courts, but that is certainly not a trial that falls to this House. That is why, at the beginning of our speech, he called for his resignation, but, in the absence of this motu proprio, we call for the President of his Government to cease. It also incurs political responsibility for failing to do so so so far. But beyond demanding his resignation or, if necessary, the cessation of his responsibility at the head of the ministry, the fact that he was aware of his dirty war talks against Catalan political leaders leads us to other issues whose clarification we consider to be typical of the claimed commissions of inquiry. How did those recordings happen? Were they carried out by the minister directly? And if so, who took them and made them public? Or were they carried out by people in connivance with the minister? And if so, why have they come to light and harm him as they harm him? Are there more recordings that will appear little by little depending on the interests we don't know? Were all the meetings and meetings in your office recorded? If the minister knew, for what purpose? What people collaborated with the minister? Who are they? Are they public officials? What means did they count on? Are there plots parallel to institutions and outside judicial control in their recordings, interventions and proceedings? If the minister directed them, a horror in a democratic society. And if the minister didn't know them, the state itself is in danger, because the office of the highest security officer in a country can be robbed. These and many others are the different rational assumptions that are raised by the knowledge of the conversations recorded in their dispatch and disseminated and that require a prompt and clear clarification, not only from a democratic commitment and political responsibility, but also from the very security of public institutions. That is why - and I am finalizing - we are calling for the resignation or, if necessary, for the cessation of the Minister of the Interior because of the content of the known talks and we also support the setting up of the requested committees of inquiry. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u116	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernández Díaz, I would have liked to address you, but we can see that you are not; we were counting on it. We would, however, have liked him to hear the reasons we have for voting in favour of this committee of inquiry. Anyway, given the nature of the matter, I am sure that Mr Fernández Díaz will be able to listen to us through a recording of today's sitting, without any doubt. As I said to you, my group will vote in favour of the creation proposal put forward by the Socialist Group, and we will do so for four reasons which I would like to comment on. The first is because the Government to which Mr Fernández Díaz belongs - his Government, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party - has once again decided to steal from this House the legitimate right to carry out the relevant control of the Government in the circumstances of its action in office. We, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, are calling for the Minister to appear in this House to give precise explanations on this matter. Since you did not want to come and you continue to raise the conflict of competences, we are obliged to vote in favour for the Minister to explain the events that have taken place not only in his office, but in the entire environment of the Ministry of the Interior, as we will now see. I am not going to extend into this conflict of competences, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a well-known and debated thing even today, but I would like to say that the Constitutional Court should have responded to this conflict a long time ago. It is a matter of resolving an issue that affects two branches of the State. To dilate this decision, as the Constitutional Court is doing, is only a failure of our democracy and, among other issues, supposes that today we are debating this perfectly avoidable commission of inquiry with a process of controlling your non-government, ladies and gentlemen. The second of the reasons why we are going to vote in favour is because Mr Fernández Díaz is leading to the institutions most valued by the Spaniards, the Civil Guard and the National Police, by a slide of contempt which casts doubt on many of the actions of the honest men and women who make up our security forces. Look, Minister - even if you are not here - there are many Spaniards who already know the names of their commissioners - that I will certainly not allow myself to repeat in this rostrum - more for the time that the informative articles and the articles of opinion and research devote to diluting the winners and the losers of their internal wars of power than for the effective action of their police actions. This is a pity, because the State Security Forces and Corpses deserve their leaders to be able to respond and respect them by giving their face to the actions that our men and women of the State Security Forces and Corpses really do, and not precisely the actions of the commissioners in their internal wars. You have a dirty war inside the department, Minister, and the most serious thing is that it comes out in public constantly. My group would like to see more efforts devoted to combating the second biggest concern for all Spaniards, namely corruption, ladies and gentlemen, corruption that currently prevails. Minister, it is not a matter of discussing which of your Commissioners and officials has more committed information about other colleagues, about elected positions of all groups or political forces, including the elected positions of the People's Parliamentary Group, which also passes. The third of the reasons is because never the official office of a minister and the things that happen in it have been so named and subject to public questioning. The recordings made on 2 and 16 October 2014 at his meeting with Mr. Daniel de Alfonso, then director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, and made public last June, signify the breakdown of the most elementary trust between the head of a ministry and the citizens whom he represents, Mr. Fernández Díaz, we are all Spaniards. In July 2016 and as part of the work to clarify those recordings that came to public light more than a year and a half later, the minister commissioned an electronic sweep of his office. To date we do not know anything about that investigation or the result of that sweep, so we understand that from 2014 until 2016 all the meetings that the Minister held in his office could have been recorded equally. I would like to ask the Minister the following. Did your party partner, Mr. Rat, know when in July 2015 he held another meeting, also conflicting, in his office, that was being recorded? Did he tell you or did he give you those tapes? Did the minister keep them? Does anyone have them? Does anyone have the tapes between the minister and Mr. Rat in his office? Because, if they exist, we would like to hear them; all Spaniards would like to hear them. Mr. Fernández Díaz, is there anything not recorded in this country? Is it possible to have really private conversations, not on the phone, but in your own office, Minister? The fourth reason is because any of the clarifications about these recordings are complicated to explain and put at risk the credibility of the minister himself. I propose two solutions to the Minister. The first is that they were performed with his consent, or perhaps without him, but within a routine recording program performed by the ministry's own counterintelligence units. That is a bad solution, of course, because I understand that there are highly confidential meetings in your office that can put at risk police and anti-crime and counter-terrorism operations and that are exposed to leaks such as Mr De Alfonso's. You should explain to us, Minister, in this case, apart from whether you know these practices, what is the purpose of them, who has access to these recordings, who keeps them and whether they are destroyed or not. But the second possibility, ladies and gentlemen, is even worse, because it involves the introduction in such a private and personal office as is the minister's office of an instrument of recording outside the ministry itself. I do not know what is worse, Minister, if your ignorance or the lack of competence and professionalism of those who seek your safety. Mr Fernández Díaz, this committee of inquiry is also to worry about you, for your safety, Minister, I am totally serious about this. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens support this committee of inquiry for the four reasons already set out, which I will repeat to you. First, for failing to submit to the ordinary control of this House. Secondly, for helping to discredit the men and women who make up one of the institutions best valued by all Spaniards. Third, by using his office to control other political formations and legitimate representatives of citizens. And, fourth, because any explanation of how these recordings were made only casts more darkness and doubt on the principles of legality and transparency that must mark the action of a minister of the Government of Spain. Mr Homs, Mr Rufián, our group was obviously not going to vote on your request. The victims are made again in the Congress of Deputies, when the Catalan Government does in that autonomous community, through the mossos, the same thing that you denounce. [[Applauds]] I will explain it to you: The Generalitat officially recognizes the espionage scandal with the Catalan CNI. [[Shows press headlines]] The mossos manipulated Sabadell's mayor's conversations to charge him. They're investigating the Catalan CNI for spying on the discolo mossos. Shot of ears from the mossos to the cyber defense agency of Puigdemont - this is today, by the way -. [[Applauds]] I told them that making the victims in this Congress is no longer a tactic that we will consent to in this Chamber. Mr Homs, Mr Rufián, since Citizens are here representing many other Catalans no longer hangs their victimism and, of course, does not hang up to whitewash corruptiles and mafia practices because they are wrapped in a flag that you like better than the one here. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u118	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of the Interior - who is not here, but who should be here - I will start by reminding you of how we met. I met him, I think in my first plenary session, in this House. We were introduced by a third person saying that I was one of the spokespersons of the change, and you said, "Well, the change is fine, but in order." It's not that I expected anything much beyond, but I have to tell you - and I may surprise you - that not only do I agree, but I would take it far beyond. It is not that the change has to be within an order, it is that if political change in Spain is essential it is to restore order and common sense. [[Applauds]] The order, Minister, has to do with the citizens not having the slightest doubt that the institutions serve the common good and not the party that governs them. The order has to do with no one having the slightest doubt that the Minister of the Interior protects the freedoms of citizens, and not that he threatens that of some citizens who do not like the way they think. The order, Minister of the Interior, has to do with guaranteeing the right to the security of everyone, which means guaranteeing the security of rights; the right that if they call at the door of the house at dawn, as the famous appointment said, let us know that it will be the milkman, but not armed officials who will drive us out of our house to give it to the bank. The order, Minister, has to do with knowing that even if we do not think as the government party thinks, you are not going to spy on us, you are not going to blackmail us, you are not going to fabricate false evidence or try to criminalize those who represent 5 million voters in this House. The order has to do with the opposite of what you have been representing. You have been representing the complete, continuous and most ignominious disorder. The disorder is that you systematically insult citizens; that you insult women by saying that abortion has something to do with ETA; that you insult Catalans by saying that peaceful demonstrations have something to do with ETA as well; that you in this of the appointments do not give much; that you insult all citizens and the intelligence of the citizens by appointing commissioner of honor to the future Pulitzer prize, Paco Marhuenda; that you insult the intelligence of the citizens and the memory of our country by allowing tributes, in public office that we pay with the money of all, nothing more and nothing less than the Blue Division. This whole set of defeats, we call disorder and you call it defending the homeland. We have heard - and he has put our hair on top - and we have seen in the media that you say that these groups, allegedly irregular groups, were called patriotic police. We are given to think of a kind of hybrid halfway between Stasi and Torrente, and we imagine the minister 'poking' the Spanish democracy, if not because it is so much more serious, if not because we are talking, fundamentally, about the risk - I don't know if it is so, but if you don't show up you can't get us out of doubt - of having a political police. [[Applauds]] For you patriotism has to do with spying, extortioning, financing irregular units of the police, filtering false reports and not signing to the media to criminalize democratic political forces, Catalan political forces, but also Spanish political forces. For us, patriotism is something else and we have explained it many times. For us, patriotism is to defend public services, it is to protect the families that have all the members unemployed, it is to defend the honour of the institutions by preventing them from becoming a war machine against political opponents, because that is the only red line that separates the states of law from the states in which the whim of those in charge is made. If you continue to insist that we are talking about a patriotic police force, we have to tell you that it seems to us a profoundly unpatriotic behavior. The patriotic behaviour of the police shows this when they are able to investigate the plots of corruption, many allegedly linked to their party, despite the crazes or despite the protection given to Mr. Rodrigo Rato. The police show this when they are able to handcuff Mr. Rodrigo Rato despite threats or intimidation. They also show this when they are able to carry out their work professionally, even though you say, on the one hand, that there is no money for the protection vests that security agents need and, on the other hand, a million and a half euros are spent to discredit political opponents with reports that have proved false. [[Applauds]] Minister, you are possibly the most sinister character in the government, and the position was disputed. [[Laughter]] However, this committee is not a committee against you, basically, Minister, because you are leaving. He has tried to make his departure at an embassy in the Vatican and has denied it to the Vatican. You, Minister, are leaving, and I have to tell you that you have failed. Despite all the leaks, all the sewers and all the criminalization, you are a piece of past in this House and we have just arrived. And it has also failed because the committee of inquiry - we are going to vote in favour of the two - will go forward, and in that committee of inquiry we will have to choose - and it will be able to explain - between a country in which citizens are afraid of their Interior Minister or a country whose Interior Minister is afraid of popular sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, the separation of powers is one of the basic principles of any democratic system, and it is not that you have killed Montesquieu with all that you have done these years in internal policy and in repression policy, but that you have even gone further. What we know as the leaking of the talks between Mr Fernández Díaz and Mr De Alfonso, director of the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia, exceeds any tolerable limit of power in democracy. This committee of inquiry should investigate this case at all extremes, but what we already know requires the immediate resignation, not today but yesterday, of the Minister of the Interior. With what we already know, we know that a Minister of the Interior has used State resources to make cases against political opponents. We know that a Minister of the Interior who should guarantee the rights of citizens is dedicated to violating them. We also know that a Minister of the Interior has under his orders police commanders who have said in court that they manufacture operations against Catalonia. We also know that that same Minister of the Interior said that he would open an investigation into the case - he has enough data; he can investigate himself - and three days after that investigation was announced, police without judicial order enters a newspaper headquarters to request the recordings. This is absolutely serious. Finally, we also know, among the many things we already knew before that investigation was announced, that the same Minister of the Interior in the recordings literally said: The President of the Government knows. What we don't know - it would be good if Mariano Rajoy were here - is if Mr Rajoy knew; this is a clear and simple question: yes or no. Did the President of the Government know that these operations were under way? Because if Mr Rajoy did not know, he would have to cease immediately, ipso facto, the Minister of the Interior; and if Mr Rajoy did, we stand before the Spanish Watergate. In other words, in the face of the government's use of public resources to end political opponents. In this case, with regard to Catalonia you are shown to be what you are: an absolutely hostile government with all Catalans and Catalans who do not hesitate to go beyond the law if they consider it necessary, a government with which there is nothing to build because it destroys everything. We believe that beyond this committee what is appropriate is the immediate resignation, as I said before, not today but yesterday, but we know that they are not going to do it, as so many other things they have never done and so many other things they have done. In that sense, what would be important right now is not to create a commission of inquiry but to propose a democratic impeachment to throw out the Spanish Richard Nixon, to end the period of lack of freedoms or of greater obscurantism that we have had in this country. But it seems that this is not going to be the case, because there are too many people interested in pervading the restoration against change, pervading the forgetfulness against memory. Faced with those people who seem to be too interested in this and not in posing a democratic impeachment, we tell you that we will be here to remember, not to forget, and above all to build the alternative that gives light to this darkness that you are protagonists of. You say you are the order and right now you are the chaos of this country, and to prevent the possible response of the spokesman of the People's Party, Mr Hernando, I will tell you that if there is something similar to a totalitarian practice in this country it is what you have done from the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u122	Mr Merino López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u123	I am sorry to disappoint one of Podemos's spokespersons, but obviously the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group is quite better able to intervene on certain issues, and this is an issue that is not worth defending by the spokesman of the People's Group. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a leader, a party and a parliamentary group that in the last year has become accustomed to living historical days; the rest of the Spaniards do not know why, but it seems that Mr Sánchez and his team love living historical days and Sunday had another historic day. [[Laughter]] But what worries me today, Mr. Sánchez, is the historic day you want to live here. You are opening up a new Parliamentarianism - and I am concerned - the parliamentarianism of wanting to review alleged things that have occurred in other legislatures, and that, Mr Sánchez, is an absolute irresponsibility. I'm going to give you a proof of what your incongruity might be. In the last parliamentary term - that short parliamentary term - the deputy Churches, of Podemos, said only two words in a very sonorous and very famous intervention already in this House, two words that made the Socialist Group rise - let me say - as authentic 1. [[Political Energuments]] I say to the Socialist Group: If the Member of the European Parliament, in the next plenary, raises a committee of inquiry into the facts of those two words which he said, which occurred more than twenty years ago, I suppose, Mr Sánchez, that you would vote in favour of that committee of inquiry, I suppose. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you have joined here today the Independenceists of Esquerra and the Independenceists of the Joint Group to attack the Government of Spain, the Minister of the Interior. Honestly, I don't know if it's your first agreement on that possible investiture, I don't know if it's your first election act, I don't know what it is, because I don't think you know where you are or where you're going. But I would like to ask you, please, to go out to the streets of Spain, you will not see any Spaniard whose first concern at the first plenary session of this legislature is that a committee of inquiry be set up on certain alleged issues that you raise. I want to say to the Socialist Group spokesman, Mr Trevín - to whom I have great admiration and great respect - that you are not so important, I really am, and I am also very happy. It's not important because you're neither a suspected criminal nor a suspected corrupt, so you're as if you didn't exist for the police; I'm serious. And that photo of that glorious minute you had on a front page of a newspaper, really, it's not imputed to the Minister of the Interior because it has nothing to do with that photo. I think it is very unfair and that you should apologize to the Minister of the Interior for accusing him of something he did not do. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, of the Left and of the Joint Group, you here today are insulting the professionalism of the National Police, of the Civil Guard... [[A Member: No, no]] Chss, chss, chss, shut up that we've been very respectful. [[Protests. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u124	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u125	I repeat, even if it bothers them. [[Rumors]] Chss, chss, chss. I repeat, even if it bothers them. They're not gonna decentralize me from the speech, all right? I've got it pretty clear. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u126	Wait a minute, Mr. Merino. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u127	You are insulting the professionalism and honorability of the members of the National Police, the Civil Guard, the judges and the prosecutors of Spain, because you are accusing them of being at the service of the People's Party and the Government of the People's Party to do alleged practices that in no way correspond to reality. But this is not being said by the People's Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, this is being said by the police unions in the communiqués they have made. They're telling all the police unions that you're insulting their professionalism, and it's disrespectful what you're doing today. I mean on behalf of the whole People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party, to which I have the honour to represent, which we support and praise the work of judges, prosecutors and of each and every member of the National Police, Civil Guard, Mossos d'Esquadra, Ertzaintza and local police because they are the ones who guarantee the security and freedom of each and every Spaniard. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been allegations that the People's Party and the Ministry of the Interior were covering up corruption in this last parliamentary term of royal government, but I am going to give you some data and then I am going to ask you a question and a reflection. Arrested for corruption in 2010 when ruling the Socialist Party, 389; PSOE, 2011, arrested for corruption, 792; PP, 2012, detained, 677; 2013, 1,278; 2014, 2,743; 2015, 2,442. In four years, 7,140. And now they will say, "There are many cases of corruption." No, ladies and gentlemen, these are cases of corruption from the past. And the question I ask you all today: Do we open a committee of inquiry in this House to determine why the Socialist Party did not pursue and detain the corrupt? Shall we open that commission of inquiry? [[Applauds]] What we would responsibly have to investigate is who has provoked illegal listening and espionage. 1 Words removed from the 'Diary of Sessions'. See p. 54. to the Minister of the Interior, why this information comes out in the middle of the election campaign. [[Rumors]] That's what you should be investigating. Ladies and gentlemen, how much is lacking the common sense and the sense of state of former socialist ministers such as Mr Corcuera - yes, yes, they laughed, but he is his partner - who have supported the work of Minister Fernández. [[Laughter]] Of course, that the spokesman of the Joint Group comes to give us lessons to Minister Fernández and the People's Party is for the record because I will tell you the difference between Minister Fernández and you, Your Honor. Minister Fernández's justice files the complaints you have filed with him, and you parade through the Supreme Court for being investigated. That is a big difference that prevents you from giving a political lesson to Minister Fernández and the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we have heard in the speeches today is no longer necessary to investigate. If you've already condemned it! There have already been interventions condemning, even with that of the PNV, that it has been a genuine legal treaty that it has carried out, it seemed that we were in the trial rather than in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that this House wants to condemn a minister to whom justice has closed the complaints that have been brought to it? How can such a situation occur in a rule of law? You want to supplant the division of powers and the rule of law, and now I will say something to Mr Errejón, to whom I logically have to devote a minute. In a rule of law, the Legislature is to legislate and not to condemn, as has been the case here, and justice is to act and determine the corresponding judicial responsibilities. I really don't know if this is what the Socialist Party has been up to is a smokescreen to cover up its historic day and its internal problems. What I am saying to Mr Sánchez is that I would like him to explain something to all the members of this House and especially to the Spaniards. If not, you tell the press when you get out. Mr Sánchez, how is it possible that with this party, with the members of this party, with this President of the Government, with this Minister of the Interior, with this whole People's Party, that we are 800,000 militants, with the votes of the People's Party, a member of your bench was lehendakari? I didn't hear any of you protesting because the People's Party gave you the votes to be lehendakari. How is it possible, Mr Sánchez, that you, who do not want to sit down and talk and who have blocked Spain - and I look at Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament - do accept the vote of the People's Party to approve the budgets in Extremadura? How is it possible, Mr Sánchez, that in Asturias you do admit the votes of the People's Party and here you are not willing to unlock Spain? How is it possible, Mr Sánchez, that it is the People's Party, in the person of our secretary-general and president of Castilla-La Mancha, that he must go out to the rescue in order to give stability to the government of Castilla-La Mancha when his prospective partners of possible investiture have dropped him at fifteen months - already said President Rajoy that his government could last fifteen minutes - in the autonomous communities? [[Protests. - Rumors.]] Explain it, Mr. Sánchez, because the Spaniards... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u128	Mr. Merino, one second. Please, keep quiet. Mr. Merino, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u129	Yeah, I'll wrap it up. Explain it to him and explain it to him yourself. How do you accept the votes of the People's Party to achieve stability in the communities where we can leave them lying and how you have blocked Spain without allowing a government to exist? [[Applauds]] I'm done. Mr. Errejon, you, who have counseled... [[Rumors]] Yeah, of course I'm gonna tell you. [[Protests]] You, who have advised and charged for advising a regime that has put politicians in jail, which has a country without social welfare, with empty supermarkets, are you going to come and teach Minister Fernández some lesson? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u130	Mr. Merino, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u131	I want to finish very briefly with Esquerra and Bildu. Representative of Esquerra Republicana, what you have to explain to the whole of this House and to the whole of the Spaniards is why the councilwoman of Esquerra who denounced the plot of 3% illegal, who denounced it judicially, expelled her from the party and then set up a government, the tripartite, and made the Statute of Catalonia. That's what you have to explain here. [[Protests.-Applause.]] To Mrs Bildu's spokesperson...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u132	Your Honor, you have to finish in three seconds. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u133	Here sadly those who have buried people have been members and relatives of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, children of civil guards, Spanish citizens walking the street. Those are the ones we buried. And you know who killed them? Friends of yours, Your Honor. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u134	Your Honor, your intervention is over. Thank you very much. [[Mr Heredia Díaz asks for the floor]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u135	Madam President, I request the floor under Rule 71.3. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u136	Quiet, please. You know the article well. Therefore, I ask you to strictly tell me what allusion you are referring to and to snuff it with me.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u137	Addressing the spokesman of the People's Party, in his fine and moderate intervention, the serious disqualifications and insults addressed to this parliamentary group, specifically... [[Protests]] Tranquility, I see the People's Party very nervous. Quiet. Disqualification is 'political energy'. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u138	Quiet, please. Silence, Mr. Heredia, and I ask your lordships to remain silent. I remind Mr Heredia - and I remind you, in the present and for the future, all your ladies and gentlemen - that, pursuant to Article 71.1, when someone wants to speak for allusions he does not have a speaking time - I say this to Mr Heredia and all your ladies and gentlemen - but simply a speaking time to say what allusion he refers to and what he asks about that allusion, if he wants to withdraw. That is the turn I will give to you and I will also give to the People's Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u139	It has been a political disqualification and, therefore, I ask that the spokesman of the People's Party withdraw the disqualification of 'political energy' 2 addressed to this parliamentary group. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you once again that we are all sitting here to comply with the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, in application of the Rules of Procedure, mentioning the reference that Mr Heredia has said, I ask you, Mr Merino: do you withdraw what you have said or do not withdraw it? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u141	If Mr Heredia and the members of the Socialist Party feel so damaged, I have no problem withdrawing it, but I think that you should reflect on your attitudes and behaviors today and in the future, it gives me the impression. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u143	Let's move on to the last point. [[Rumors]] Silence, please, silence. We turn to the last item on the agenda relating to the accountability of the Permanent Chamber of Deputies of the Congress of Legislature No. XI to Legislature No. XII. To the extent that no parliamentary group is expected to intervene, the accounts shall be submitted for approval by consent at the end of this sitting. Let's start voting in two minutes. [[Pause]] 2 See p. 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u144	Voting of non-legislative proposals. Firstly, a non-law proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on improving the effectiveness of active employment policies. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 137 against, 172 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u145	It's rejected. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IN FUNCTIONS APPROVES BY DECRETO-LEY, IN THE CASE OF PRESUPPORTARY PURPOSE, THE INCREASE OF PUBLIC PENSIONS AND RETRIBUTIONS OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES. [[File number 162/000102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u146	We move on to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal that the Government in office adopt by decree-law in case of budgetary extension the increase in public pensions and salaries of public employees. The vote will take place on the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Citizens Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the Basque Parliamentary Group and the Joint Group. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 209 against, 133 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u147	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, on the elimination of hierarchies. [[EXPENDITURE NUMBER 162/000127]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u148	No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea regarding the removal of rotating doors. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 78 against, 136 abstentions, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u149	It's rejected. - OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GUARANTEEING THAT THE SUBJECT LIABILITIES BENEFITED BY THE TAX REGULARIZATION FOR THE YEAR 2012 MUST EFFECTIVELY AT THE TYPE OF 10 %. [[File number 162/000103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u150	We then move on to the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to ensure that taxable persons benefiting from fiscal regularisation in 2012 effectively tax the 10% rate. Let's vote for points. First of all, we voted on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 343 against, 1 abstention, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u151	It was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 207 against, 2 abstentions, 136.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u152	It was adopted. [[Applauds]] We move on to point 3 of the same proposal. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 208 against, 4 abstentions, 133.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u153	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u154	We then proceeded to put to the vote for approval by consent the proposals for the establishment of committees under agenda items 5, 6, 7 and 8, as well as those for the establishment of the Joint Parliamentary Control Commission of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and its Companies and the Joint Commission for the Study of the Drug Problem. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the establishment of the above-mentioned committees was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u155	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for the establishment of a Standing Committee on the Rights of Children and Adolescents. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 338 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u156	It's approved. - PROPOSAL FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PERMANENT COMMISSION FOR THE AUDITORY OF DEMOCRATIC QUALITY, COMBATING CORRUPTION AND INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL REFORMS. [[File number 155/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u157	We now vote on the proposal to establish a standing committee for the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 votes in favour, 340 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u158	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u159	We shall proceed to the vote on the requests for the establishment of committees of inquiry. I inform you that the request of the Joint Parliamentary and Republican Left Groups has been withdrawn to vote on the first one we have discussed. We therefore voted only on the request by 84 Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to set up a committee of inquiry. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 344 votes in favour, 206 against, 136 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u160	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-27-CD160927.u161	We then proceed to submit for approval by consent the accounts of the Permanent Deputy of the Congress of Deputies. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] It's approved. The meeting rose. It was nine and twenty minutes of the night.
