ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u1	The meeting was called to order. Good afternoon. I would like to announce to you that, following the usual practice of other meetings, we are going to group all the votes of the day and I would like to inform you that this vote will be held, according to approximate estimates, not before eight o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u2	We begin with the first item on the agenda, on the debate on all proposals for reform of the Statutes of Autonomy and in this case the proposal for reform of the first additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community will be dealt with. For this reason, three representatives of Les Corts Valencianes accompany us, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first and for five minutes, as set out at this morning's Spokesman's Meeting, Mr Ferri Fayos.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of the Council, companies and companies of Les Corts Valencianes, senyories, exactly six months and seventeen days ago that the representatives of Les Corts were here demanding the recognition of the enormous injustice that the Valencians suffered in terms of investments. If I asked those who were not Members of Parliament at the time to raise their hands, the majority would do so. Citizenship has decided to renew representatives and to introduce new faces and speeches. If I asked those who were deputies at the time to raise their hands but preferred the refreshment at the Manolo bar instead of discussing the lives of the Valencians, so would some. Mr Rajoy, who once again honors us with his absence today, would be one of them. That the representatives of Les Corts spoke before an almost empty Chamber was a perfect symbol of what happens to the Valencians when we come here to claim what we believe is justice. One ends up with the feeling that no matter what political arguments, it doesn't matter if we all come together for the same purpose. Let us come with the arguments that come, our problems clash with the indifference of those who really command. This indifference does not punish us, the ones we come here, but the 5 million Valencians who are currently suffering delays in the vicinity, the black spots on the roads, the endless and unfinished journeys of our trains. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow your indifference to be the dead weight of our history. That's a story we're not willing to repeat. The reality is that six months and seventeen days later we return to this Congress because the reform of the Valencian Statute adopted in 2011 has not yet been processed, five years of blockade that exemplify very well the feeling that we Valencians and Valencians have about the treatment that we have received from the central governments. We are 5 million people who are indignant at how different governments have neglected us, underestimated our problems, ignored our concerns and blocked our projects. In short, 5 million people who have seen our dreams and illusions clash against the harsh reality of the General Budgets of the State. The figures make it clear that budget after budget is invested in our territory a lower percentage than the population living in it. Aren't people more important than territories? As I told you, don't forget at any time that the Valencians are still people. This discrimination has happened systematically, an unfair situation in which it rains on the ground because the marginalization of investments is compounded by under-financing; a genuine anomaly according to which we are the only poor territory that, instead of receiving funds, contributes to it. To this is also a historical debt accumulated since 2002, which would already be around 16 billion, funds that never arrived for our education and our health. Since we came up here in September 2015, many more things have changed than the faces of your ladies and gentlemen. In October, all the Valencian political groups reached an agreement in our Parliament to demand three things that seem common sense: an immediate revision of the financing system, the payment of the accumulated deficits to our territory and numbered at least 13 billion - to understand us, the historical debt - and investments that compensate for the underinvestment of recent years. Compromís, Socialist Party, People's Party, Podemos and Citizens sign these demands; we also have the support of Valencian civil society, employers, workers' representatives, universities, associations, and all kinds of entities. We need that unanimity to be transferred to Congress today and, above all, we need those demands to become facts. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a government that meets the Valencians and that means that we need a government, yes, but above all it means having a government that is allied with our demands, that in its agenda includes each and every one of the demands that we have signed all the groups in the Valencian Parliament. He told them in September that the patience of the Valencians had reached its limit and today, in this Congress, a Valencian force such as Compromís has multiplied by four its presence. Our speech is simple, without trap or cardboard: the Valencians deserve to live better and we will leave our skin to achieve it. We do not ask for privileges or treatment of favors, only that they do not treat us as second-rate citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u4	Thank you, Mr Ferri. Mr. Mata Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, President of Les Corts, President of the Government, Vice-President, members of the Council, it is certainly a pleasure to see the Chamber full, because just a few months ago there were no fifty Members to discuss one of the most important issues for our people, for the Valencian people. It is significant that there is no member of the Government and, perhaps, there are reasons for this because it is very difficult to understand that we are in a community that knows that it is underfunded, that they know that it has a systematic infrastructure deficit, that they know that we are in a polycrisis that can lead us to a polycatastrophe, because our pensioners receive less pension than the national average, because the per capita GDP of our community is today at thirteen points of the national average when just twenty years ago, in which the People's Party ruled, was on the national average. We are in a community that gets up every day thinking about how it can pay a debt that is systemic. There are 40 billion euros, 8,000 euros for each of the Valencians and Valencians, who consider themselves to be unpayable, but when we try to order this situation we find that the Government of Spain resorts to the decree that eliminates the pharmaceutical copayo, we find that the Government of Spain resorts to the universalization of health, and there are still stones and stones on the way. The last thing they have done to us is that, because some leaders of the People's Party lied to the European Union, distorted the deficit figures and put bills in the drawers, there is an invoice that they want to carry on our backs of 19 million euros. We, ladies and gentlemen, have changed not only for two months, when we appeared, in which there was a Valencian and Valencian government and with Valencians and very Valencian, but we have changed because we know what people need to be able to change it. We, ladies and gentlemen, come from a land where one of the spokespersons who had to appear here a few years ago, when this initiative was being dealt with, is today in prison and seems to be signing some agreement with the prosecution. We come from a community and from a country that every day has to see how in humor programs, how on the televisions we are being vilified and we believe that the time has come for this House to give us equality, equality with the rest of Spanish and Spanish, not equal opportunities because the greatest equal opportunity is to be born, equality to have the same possibilities in ports, roads, infrastructure. It is dramatic that the second and third capitals of Spain need three and a half hours to communicate by train, the second and third capitals of Spain. It is dramatic that we are connected with everyone through our ports, but we are not connected with Europe because there is a perverse game to pervert and crush the Mediterranean corridor. We, ladies and gentlemen, need to be clearly told that since we are Spanish, because we want to be Spanish, we have the same right to invest per capita as in other regions. And politics has the perversion that we must never say, never, because the time is very long and the boomeran of those who resorted to the Aragonese Statute, the Catalan Statute and the Andalusian Statute, for issues like this and others, will receive the blow of the boomeran when they return. Because we don't want anything different than the Aragonese and Andalusians. And we know that we are facing a formal declaration, a political declaration, a political commitment that is not required before the courts. We already said the last time we appeared here that the most Valencian phrase is the word l'home. And I added: and the dona. We want the word of the man and woman of this Parliament so that we can continue to have justice to face our future. Ladies and gentlemen, they have the challenge of forming a government; a government that we need all the Spaniards. The last time we were here there was only one group that opposed this initiative, which did not vote for this initiative, which was UPyD, already disappeared from the Valencian political scene and already disappeared from the Spanish political scene. We need a government; a government of progress, because those who are wondering each day why they don't find anyone to talk to, who will call any Valencian and tell them the reasons why they can't be counted on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Mata. Mr Bellver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u7	Good evening, Mr. President. Many honorable President of the Generalitat, excellent President of Les Corts, illustrious President of the People's Party of the Valencian Community and representative spokesman of my parliamentary group, ladies and gentlemen, six months later we returned to this Chamber to approve the consideration of the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community in its first additional provision. This statutory reform - it should not be forgotten - was promoted by the People's Party of the Valencian Community thinking exclusively of the general interest and to which the rest of the groups subsequently adhered. I ended my previous speech in this House by asking them to vote in favour of the Valencian Community and their vote in favour of Spain, because it is the same: we naturally combine the incardination of our land in the unity of the State. And we do so even in these times when the word Spain is in direct withdrawal from national political language, when not in public auction. Ladies and gentlemen, today I come as the representative of the People's Party of the Valencian Community to ask you for your vote in favour of everything; of everyone. And I do so convinced, as we have always been, that there is no other option if we want to make further progress with some possibility of success, but also alarmed by the deterioration that we have experienced in the last six months both in my community and in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, today's Yoísms, Personalisms and Nationalisms are working together and with one single objective: not to talk about us. Let's not talk about everyone. But from my community we don't intend to. We are wrong to give up and much worse to give up our feelings, in this case to give up our homeland. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, the Valencian Community has done nothing but reaffirm, revitalize and renew the commitment of Valencians in dealing with state affairs with the reforms of its Statute of Autonomy. And we do it from the understanding. The first reform that came from those that were called second generation was ours, and it was precisely because with the Valencian way we demonstrated to the whole society that it is possible to open these debates from coherence and respecting the constitutional bloc, in front of other proposals that were already emerging in those moments of clearly rupturistic cutting. Since 16 September, when I took this rostrum, there have been some important and worrying things that must be brought into this debate in the presence of new political actors. From the People's Party we talk about the Valencian way of facing constitutionally flawless statutory reforms. Meanwhile, some of these new formations today speak of Governments as Valencian. The so-cracked Valencian government is a government presided over, which is not led by the Socialist Party, managed by the Podemos Parliamentary Group, and which has brought only more deficit, more debt and more taxes to our land. [[Applauds]] And what is worse, as we are seeing in recent times, this Council has become a real repellent of investment in our community. They have managed, without getting out of their official cars, to have a genuine investment leak in our community. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u9	Thank you, President. So it is, ladies and gentlemen, that today we know that the Valencian Community is leading the decline in tax revenues in February. That's the Valencian government they're talking about. So, being this reality and not another, we are both concerned about ignorance and manipulation, because - one more example - what do you think a Valencian thinks when he hears the leader of another formation in this House say that we are not poorly financed, that we have no right to claim our historical debt? Look, Your Honor, it's not that we're underfunded, it's that we're the worst funded community of the seventeen Spanish Autonomous Communities. And that is so, ladies and gentlemen, because of a system of ruinous financing: that of Rodriguez Zapatero, which you imposed with your applause, of which today you refuse without any indecentness, and what is worse, without even apologizing. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite what some people want to see, the Valencian Community did not have an expenditure problem today or yesterday; the problem it has is an income problem, as all the experts' reports say... [[Mr Campos Arteseros pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u10	Mr. Campos, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u11	... both public and private, the last of them known precisely a few days ago. In fact, we are the only autonomous community that brings together three lethal characteristics for our public accounts, for any public account: always lower funding than the average; always lower per capita income than the average, due to the million people who made the decision to come live with us at the beginning of this century; and always a state investment below the national average. By the way, speaking of investment and taking into account these three characteristics, it was the councils of the People's Party that had to fill the gaps in the state's investments by allocating EUR 16.6 billion to social infrastructure.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u12	Mr. Bellver, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u13	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish and do so just as I did six months ago, asking for your vote in favour of the Valencian Community, asking for your vote in favour of Spain, because for us, as I said to you, it is the same: it is talking about the dearest, it is talking about everyone. It is a question of feelings and also of identity, just as approving this reform today, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of justice and at the same time of respect; of justice and respect for the Valencian Community, of justice and respect for the Valencians. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u14	Thank you, Mr. Bellver. It is now the position-fixing shift. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of Les Corts, Valencian delegation, parliamentarians, it is a pleasure that you are here today and therefore welcome to this house. I am deeply impressed by the words of the popular spokesman, because he seems to have suffered an amnesia attack. Let's remember. When Mr. Zaplana came in twenty-one years ago, we Valencians owed 2.5 billion. When Mr. Fabra left, the Valencians owed us 42 billion. [[Applauds]] Something's happened here that's gone wrong. Mr Bellver said that they were promoting this reform of the Statute. This reform was approved in March 2011, five years ago. In these five years the People's Party has had 186 Members in this House. I could've approved it, I could've done a lot more. And you know what he did? Nothing. I remind you, because it seems to be Marmot Day, which is the third time we discussed it here, because the first two times the People's Party prevented it. The first time you had the opportunity to discuss this reform that affected the Valencians here you preferred to discuss that of the pitos to the king at the end of the Cup, that is, of pitos. Another day they refused to discuss it because they claimed it was October 9th and it was a party and they did not send it to the delegation. Therefore, it was not possible to argue. The third time, they prevented the vote. We were allowed to discuss it, but not to vote for it. In the end, it was only six months ago, already at the end of the legislature. You've consumed your entire legislature without doing anything at all. Before we talk about this reform of the Statute, let me also point out to Mr Montoro, because he assigns to the autonomous communities the responsibility for the deficit's failure to control, for its increase. This is simply intolerable. The autonomous communities manage 36% of public expenditure and welfare state services - health, education and social protection. While they are only responsible for 30% of the deficit, their indebtedness accounts for only 24% of the total government. Current public spending between 2009 and 2014 has been reduced in the Autonomous Communities 28 billion and has increased in the State 2.7 billion. Who would have had to cut more? Obviously the central state, because let us remember that the central administration reserves 2.9% of the deficit and gives the autonomous communities only 0.7%. Why? On the basis of what? Four times less. Perhaps with an equitable distribution of the objectives of the public deficit we would not be talking about trying to blame the autonomous communities. Mr Bellver, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the central government has maliciously harmed the Valencians all these years. Let us remember that the People's Party has had the responsibility in the last twenty years to have three governments here. The Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority states with regard to the public financing of the Valencian Generalitat that per capita expenditure is far from the average of the autonomous communities, as a result of a much lower than average income. The system of territorialised public accounts commissioned by the Ministry of Finance shows that, despite having a per capita income below the average - that is, we are poor - we maintain a deficit with the central administration of more than EUR 2 billion per year, a situation that you could have corrected if you had done your duties and approved the new autonomous financing system that they had approved more than a year ago. Therefore, that attitude of Mr Bellver, who seems to be new here, who comes unpulled, has seemed to me deeply irresponsible. This attitude of the People's Party has achieved something that seemed impossible: that the Valencians would unite and unanimously approve, in order to demand fair financing, a regularization of the debt and territorialized investments of the State consistent with our demographic weight. That has been approved by the Valencian Courts, that is, PSOE, PP, Citizens, Commitments and Podemos, and this is precisely what we are talking about today, of the proposal to reform the first additional provision of the Statue, that is, that the investments are equivalent to the weight of the Valencian population on the whole of the State for a period of seven years. Look, seven years; it was approved five years ago, and if we don't get there, it's almost seven years gone without it. To me that seems elementary, just, reasonable. Thus, in the 2016 General Budgets, which the People's Party approved on its own, like the Valencians we account for 11% of the population, we would have received an investment of 11% and not of the 8 or 7 of the previous year or of the 6 of the previous year or even less of the previous year. In silver: 879 million will be invested - if they have just invested them all - and would have corresponded to us 1,216. If we look at the last fifteen years, we will not find a single budget in which per capita investment has not been lower than the Spanish average, always lower. Over the past five years there are more than 2 billion that have not been invested, that have not generated employment, that have not generated wealth and, worse, that have hindered our growth. Compromis has tabled many amendments to the General State Budgets: 230, worth 1.4 billion; 230 amendments in Valencian terms. Do you know how many the People's Party approved? None, neither the previous year nor the previous year; of the thousand amendments to the General Budgets of the State, we have not been approved. There was the Mediterranean corridor; there was the contract-program of the city of Valencia. Let's remember: 127 million to Madrid, 99 to Barcelona, zero to Valencia. There was the Valencian Institute of Modern Art, 170,000 euros; Reina Sofia, 36 million; the Thyssen, 6 million. There was Palau de les Arts, 500,000 euros; 9 million at the Teatro Real in Madrid, 7 at Liceu. We are not against it, on the contrary, we are in favour. What we are asking for is equality, equality; what we are asking for is the same treatment, that is, compliance with the Constitution. It has stopped investing in proximity, in the connections of the port of Valencia, in the airport of Alicante, in the train of the coast, in the axis Zaragoza-Teruel-Sagunto, in the A-33, in the N-340. Some have said that it was not fair for investments to be adjusted to population weight but to needs. I wonder: Do they not find all these investments very necessary? That part of Valencia's GDP is below average is a direct consequence of the lack of investment. I'm done. I see that the People's Party has seen the light; that's good enough. If they had done what they had done, we wouldn't be on Marmot Day today, discussing this for the third time. I hope that all groups will vote in favour of this reasonable proposal, which already has precedents in other statutes, and I hope that the next Government will pick up this legitimate aspiration of the Valencian people who unanimously supported Les Corts. We hope that the next government will be fair to the Valencians. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u16	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Is Mr Azpiazu going to speak for the Basque Parliamentary Group? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Denial]] For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. President of the Valencian Generalitat, president of the Valencian Corts, representatives of the Valencian Generalitat and of the Valencian Corts that accompany us, deputies of the Valencian Corts who have intervened in this presentation of proposal for reform of the Valencian Statute once more, welcome. On behalf of the Catalan Group we want to give a symbolic value to this initiative, which is also the first and which, as has been recalled here, was the last in the previous legislature. [[Democracy and Freedom]] I think this has something symbolic. Apparently there is some progress, because six months ago visibility was claimed, for example, and I think visibility has been gained. At least today in this House there is more competition than in September, although there are some who always fail and who are never or have not been in the last four years, who are the representatives of the Government of Spain. That, in the context of a proposal such as the one presented today to us by three Members of the Valencian Courts on a symbolic and politically very relevant issue, the Spanish Government responds with its lack of presence is not only a detail, it is not only a mistake, it is the expression of a lack of sensitivity but of commitment which, by the way, we know very well in relation to what is happening in Catalonia, but which I see is not only in relation to Catalonia, but also in relation to other territories. When Minister Montoro - which should be purely logical if he were here at least - tells us, for example, that the autonomous communities are responsible for not meeting the deficit targets, he is not taking into account neither the context nor the arguments or the clarifications that it entails in part - not in everything, but in part - the debate that we have today regarding this proposal put forward by the Valencian Courts. You, representatives of the Valencian Courts, know that you can count on our humble support, with what we represent, and that we respect your proposal. We know that it is a proposal - we have had the opportunity to discuss it again in recent days with the representatives of Compromises - which is explained only in political terms, because it is not surprising that this law establishes that the commitment of an investment for a certain period of time - seven years - has no connection in legal terms and in terms of the configuration of the future budgets of the State. This is a contradiction in its just terms. You know, representatives of the Valencian Courts - particularly those who have consistently and consistently been demanding over so many years the need for an investment in infrastructure that corresponds to the needs of a territory, of an economy that does not distance itself from the whole Spanish State and that brings wealth with more - that this fact is discussed within the framework of the position of a minister, Minister Montoro, who simply accuses the autonomous communities of non-compliance with the deficit objective, disregarding the circumstances in which certain territories are found. In this regard, I make myself available to the proposers and to the parliamentary groups who are now going to process this initiative. We should commit ourselves in this plenary session not only to dealing with it but also to ensuring that its content is actually materialized. If the author of the explanatory statement four or five years ago had a direct and express will to put it but not to comply with it, this House must feel committed to doing precisely the opposite, that is to say to do with that given word, of what was claimed, not only a commitment, not just a testimony of political will, but a translation into contradictory facts, that is, that this commitment to investment in infrastructure is reflected in the budgets. In conclusion, apart from reiterating my group's support for this procedure, I would like to stress the way in which we have lived in recent years: to make false promises that are then not fulfilled. This affects the heart of the credibility of politics. In these current times, we are committed to doing things better, to improving the distance between politics and the whole of the citizenry, and this also goes through many other things, for example, by not making interventions that provoke a certain stubbornness, as some spokesman has done before, to justify what, in my way of seeing at least - I sincerely say - is unjustifiable. I am not going to go into more details, because they have already been pointed out, but I do mean that that to which one commits, that which one formalizes, even and particularly within the framework of a law, then has to be complied with. Here we are accustomed - in recent years in a constant, lucid way even - to remind ourselves that the law must always be enforced, but it seems that those who claim its fulfillment, at the time of truth, at the time of translating the commitments materialized in the law - that in the speeches moreover are remembered and with a certain vehemence - in fact, that is, at the time of complying with the law itself - I insist -, do not do it at all. In this sense, we here have an opportunity to pursue this initiative and thus to overcome the distance that sometimes exists between the credibility of politics and what people attribute to us, sometimes with all the reason of the world. We have a good example. We can overcome this ceiling between the confidence of citizens and politics, which is something we must undoubtedly improve. I insist on encouraging them to take forward this initiative, which for us has a very relevant symbolic value. Beyond what is the future political framework in which we are moving, I am convinced that the Valencia and Catalunya countries will continue along the path of finding common spaces, common demands, and achieving common goals, as we have done, for example, in Europe in relation to the Mediterranean Corridor, precisely before the Spanish State itself, because this is our most recent history. In the end, we have managed to make the Mediterranean corridor a priority infrastructure for the European institutions, despite the opposition of the Spanish State and the Spanish Government. I sincerely believe that Valencià and Catalunya, for the responsibility we have to contribute to improving growth and sustaining the economies and societies of southern Europe, will continue along this path and for many years. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u18	Thank you, Mr. Homs. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs Capella.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u19	Thank you, President. President of the Valencian Generalitat, President of Les Corts Valencianes, Vice President of the Valencian Generalitat, the participation in this parliamentary debate by Esquerra Republicana is by express desire, will and vocation to represent - as we have always done - the republicanism of the Valencian Country and the Valencian independenceists. Today we put to the vote a reform of the Statut d ́Autonomía del País Valencià, which comes late for obvious lack of political will, being solely responsible for it the People's Party. This reform - let us be realistic - commits little or nothing to the Government of the Spanish State. It is a more symbolic gesture than real and does not guarantee in any way the solution to the lack of investments of the Spanish Government in the Valencià Country. Proof of this is the very statement of reasons for the reform, which expressly refers to the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the Statute of Catalonia in that paragraph which states that, as regards the investments of the Spanish Government, the statutes of autonomy do not bind the General Courts in the elaboration of the General Budgets of the State. In conclusion, the reform of the Statut d ́Autonomie can say that the investment of the State in the Valencia Country must be equivalent to the weight that its population represents in the total population of the State, but the Government can ignore and continue to do what it does: invest little or nothing. Finally, as the saying goes, although I say it without faith and with little conviction: it is never too late if bliss is good. For this reason, I welcome the reform, but I add that it is to be seen what we will be faced with, taking into account the application of a similar provision of the Statute of Catalonia and the usual behaviour to which the Spanish Government has accustomed us, whatever colour it may be. I also need that for Esquerra Republicana it is only a small step to go forward in the construction of what is to be the future republic of the Valencia Country. This reform highlights the serious financing situation in the Valencià Country, resulting from the lack of historical investment by the different governments of the Spanish State. Without going any further, yesterday afternoon the President of the Generalitat expressed this to Minister Montoro. It is only necessary to analyse the General Budgets of the State for the last fifteen years. It is clear that this analysis affects all color governments. The investment of the Spanish Government per capita in the Valencia Country has never reached the Spanish average. If the population criterion had been applied already in 2000, the Government should have invested more than €6.8 billion, an investment that would soon have enabled financing, for example, the Mediterranean corridor, the Gandia-Denia train, the Xàtiva-Alcoy line, the unfolding of the N-332 as it passes through the Navy or the N-340 through the Baix Maestrat. In the meantime, as Mr Rajoy says in relation to investments in other trains of questionable necessity, the important thing is that we have them, even if no one travels in them. I will remind you that in the face of this investment deficit, the Republican Left has never kept quiet. We've always denounced him and claimed him there and here. To each draft of the General Budgets of the State we have tabled amendments that contained increases in investment for the benefit of the Valencià Country and its citizens. If they had been voted on in the affirmative, we would not be talking about the investment deficit or the historical deficit. And what about the last General State Budgets adopted last August, those that were adopted with night, lightness and that will serve little in attention to what you have already said and continue to say to them Europe? In these General Budgets of the State the Government budgeted an average of 176 euros per inhabitant, while the average investment of the State is 273 euros per inhabitant. It is evident that the lack of investment in the Valencia Country is only the tip of the iceberg of the financing problems of the Valencia Country itself. It is a territory with a per capita income below the average and, however, it provides the State with more income through taxes than it then receives in terms of expenditure and investment. This has been confirmed by the Finance Minister himself, who is absent from this Chamber today, who, through the publication of the fiscal balances, has already shown a fiscal deficit of more than EUR 1.4 billion. It is intolerable for the Valencià Country to contribute more than it receives when the funding system does not even cover investment in education, health and social services. It is indecent that the solution adopted by the Spanish Government to date has not been to modify the financing system, but to offer a loan, i.e. to do business. [[Rumors]] The Valencià Country, like all the countries that make up the Catalan countries, suffers from fiscal expoliation, and this affects the lives of the citizens of the Valencià Country, their rights and their well-being. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u21	Left Republican has not tired of proposing reforms to solve it. For example, in the debate on the reform of the Valencian Autonomy Statute in 2006, the Esquerra Parliamentary Group, among many amendments, proposed the creation of the Valencian Tax Agency; amendments that were rejected by both the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Take note of both of this data. In short, Esquerra Republicana will vote in favour of this in the meantime, but you know that Esquerra Republicana advocates that in the immediate future the Valencià Country should take the path of proclaiming the Republic of the Valencià Country, where the Valencians own their future and have full freedom to decide on everything that affects them. I conclude by making myself the words of the poet Pere Quart: And a country as small as the somio comperta. View the Valencià Country!View the Catalan countries! [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Capella. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the President of Les Corts Valencianes and the entire delegation that has come this afternoon. While I was preparing this intervention in Alicante, Valencia, some memories came to my head from when I was in high school and they made me read a book called The Catapardo, by Lampedusa, which I'm sure you'll have read. There's a time when Tancredi tells Uncle Fabrizio: If we want everything to stay the way it is, we need to make everything change. Well, this sentence comes to my mind to talk about autonomous financing. Look, if you want to be brave and you want to do politics in another way, the important thing is not to show that you are moving something that you know is not going to have any effect in order to be able to continue complaining and thus continue to manage the same. I'm a Valencian. For twenty years I have been living in Alicante, supposedly the worst financed province of the Valencian Community. I agree from the first to the last point with all the political groups in which we undoubtedly need, in this part of the Mediterranean, urgently, better funding, which guarantees better public services, and better territorial investments, which promote the competitiveness of our territory, but I add: we also need better politicians, more honest politicians, less demagogues and who come to make real policy. [[Applauds]] Citizens say yes to better financing for citizens of the Valencian Community, although they refuse to deceive them with proposals like this. The current system of autonomous financing has been shown to be insufficient and unfair and requires an amendment to the whole. The Lofca, with all the patches of Zapatero, has not allowed to guarantee the equality of the Spaniards in the access to the fundamental public services. We agree with all the parliamentary groups that the situation is serious and that in Valencia we are particularly damaged. We are particularly affected by poor autonomous financing; we are especially affected by poor rational investment in infrastructure. This reality is as real as Valencia has been undermined by corruption cases. How much money from the autonomous funding that has had to come to us has gone to the sewers of corruption? How much money from our schools, how much money from our hospitals and infrastructure has been lost in cases like Imelsa, Formula 1 or Noos? [[Applauds]] I don't want to go on, because I wouldn't have time. The mismanagement is very serious, the corruption is very serious, as serious as establishing this argument of underfunding as an excuse to cut where it hurts the Valencians the most, but also to perpetuate a system of fishing that bites the tail: the autonomous communities we fail to meet the deficit of autonomous financing and blame Madrid; instead of cutting superfluous expenses and making good management, we continue to complain and, in the end, the citizen gets hurt, because he doesn't know where to put the responsibility. What is being proposed here today is, in our view, to support a wrong model, to support a model of territorialized financing à la carte. Territorialized investment means sui generis as a form of autonomous financing and has so far been carried out in response to the political criteria that have been agreed to by each community. Between 2004 and 2011 we have witnessed acts like this and we have called for reforms of the statutes: Catalans, according to GDP; in the Community we have to look at average investment per capita; Andalusians have asked for it by population; Castile and León by territory. They will agree with me that this cannot be financed and that a country cannot be vertebrated. This is a circus of cross-recriminations between the central government and the autonomous communities, and we propose that it change. Making noise to appear that something is done, so that nothing changes, is not our way of doing politics. It's brave time, and Citizens are going to say no to patches. My party's bet is to take this funding very seriously and we invite the rest of the political forces to join. The misadjustment that exists in this country is not ordered with the patches that involve bilateral concessions; patching up the system by making a sloppy financing is generating more problems. Citizens propose two solutions. Firstly, a reform of the system of autonomous financing in depth, jointly and including parameters not only quantitative but also qualitative, because we must remember that taxes are paid by people and not by territories. Secondly, the establishment of an infrastructure assessment and prioritisation plan, because we no longer want airports without aircraft. Again: Citizens say yes to better funding for the citizens of the autonomous community, but they say no to the Valencians being deceived once again. The proposal to amend the Statute which is now before the Courts does not guarantee any more euro to the Valencians and the Valencians, and that must be said. The proposal brought here today does not guarantee Valencia another euro. The Generalitat itself understood at the time that these clauses were openly unconstitutional; it has already been recalled here that it has been brought several times and that some of the rapporteurs, unfortunately, could not defend it because it was accused and is now in prison. The proposal presented today by Les Corts cannot become an act of propaganda; moreover, it cannot become an act of irresponsible propaganda. That's why we're not going to be complicit in an imposture operation. To show the citizenry that we are going to be given something that is not there and, on top of that, to appear before the rest of Spain as having it and that we are spending it seems a fraud to us. Politicians have to do real politics. One thing is that the sessions are broadcast on television and another thing is that the Chamber becomes a den from which propaganda comes out. What is being proposed today is a legally useless act - and this has been acknowledged by the rest of the rapporteurs - which is unworkable and does not in any way respond to the problem of the current financing of Valencia. Furthermore, it is a paradox that Mr Montoro voted for this act and then told us that he has no money to pay us. The proposal to amend the Statute of the Courts, I insist, does not guarantee us one more euro. That is why we, who have not come to do the same, to do what we always do, want to be brave and we propose that we join in a profound reform of the financing system and a model of territorial financing that makes the territories more competitive, that encourages the Valencian Community to increase competitiveness and become an intelligent territory and that it achieves fairer financing not only for the Valencians but also for all the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ballester has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u25	Thank you very much, President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, a cordial greeting to the representatives of the Valencian people who are now accompanying us, Mr President, Mr President of the Valencian Courts, Mr Vice-President and especially to the fellow Members of the Puertas and the rest of the parliamentary groups. I feel that Mr Sánchez is not here today, because he wanted to take advantage, because an image is worth more than a thousand words, to ask him to retain this image of the Valencian Government in his retina, the image of a government, a plural government, of coalition, of change and of progress, a government that includes many but walks in one direction. Keep in mind the image of that Government, to which PP and Citizens opposed, because that is the image we also want for the Government of Spain. I wanted to ask Mr Sánchez to listen to the speeches so that he can verify that the forces of change have many things in common, fundamentally the need for a government that will end the policies that have led us here to the Valencians and also the Spaniards. Finally, I wanted to ask you to look at the facts, the results that a Government with political will can achieve. Today we are discussing a reform of the Statute of Autonomy that was adopted in Les Corts Valencianes in 2011 and that has been hindered over and over again by the People's Party, a reform that is crucial to our interests, those of Valencians and Valencians, and that has had to wait for a government of change in the Valencian Generalitat. I am here today as a Valencian, but also as a representative of Podemos and of a plural and fraternal parliamentary group that decisively bets on the construction of a country united in its diversity, a plurinational country as a way out of the territorial crisis that the policies of the People's Party have only increased, a country where it is inconceivable that a finance minister blames the failure of the deficit on the construction of schools or on the care of dependent people. But let us turn to the facts we are dealing with, to the urgent needs that make this statutory reform of the Valencian Government of Valencia of crucial importance. Valencian is one of the poor communities in Spain, with a GDP per capita below the average. The fragility of our economy is due to State investment and the financing system. With regard to public investment, there is a significant difference in our territory with respect to the state average and it does not correspond to the population weight of the community. The state average is 237 euros per inhabitant, while the Valencians only receive 176. We can therefore say that the principle of equity that the financing system should comply with under the Constitution is clearly not being complied with. On the other hand, the Valencià Country is affected by a fiscal deficit that seriously discriminates against citizens, because we are below the average of the per capita GDP of the state and yet we are the third largest deficit autonomy, that is, we are the only poor autonomy that pays more than it receives, when the criterion of interterritorial solidarity supported by the Constitution orders the opposite. Per capita income and therefore expenditure are among the lowest in Spain, hindering the exercise of autonomous competences and jeopardising the principle of sufficiency. The combination of these elements determines that we have a level of public debt that forces us to devote almost a quarter of our budget to debt servicing. We are the most indebted community with respect to GDP and the second in absolute terms. The final result, ladies and gentlemen, is an accumulated debt of more than EUR 40 billion, which wastes the economic growth potential of the community and its entrepreneurial fabric and makes it impossible to guarantee quality health, education and social services capable of meeting people's needs. Our welfare state is threatened and another productive model is prevented. But I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem is not understood or explained only by figures, so let me show what is behind those numbers. Unfair funding and poor investments are synonymous with having the most precarious health services across the country. There are more than 13,000 boys and girls studying in barracks, 312 companies closed in 2015 due to lack of funding, 30,000 dependents died before receiving the aid. It is clear that the current system of financing and investment entails discrimination and constitutes an obstacle to the full development of our self-government and the violation of constitutional principles. This reform of the statute implies that the State's investment in the community is equivalent to its population weight. It is therefore a necessary but insufficient reform. Why? Firstly, because it is limited to the question of investment, but it does not address the fundamental problem, which is the financing system. Secondly, because it is not binding, it does not oblige the Government to take into account in the general budgets of the State the needs of the Valencian Community. Thirdly, because the problems of Valencians are not limited to income - and therefore do not end in income - they also affect expenditure. The financial situation of the community is also due to the waste and mismanagement of the public resources that we have suffered for decades, which have led us to accumulate those more than 40 billion euros in debt; a debt that was multiplying and multiplying while it continued to be cut in education, health and social services; a debt that was multiplying while we were still waiting for the Mediterranean corridor or the Gandía-Denia train, while public television was shut down; a debt that was accumulated because of mismanagement - let us remember a closed City of Light, an airport without planes - a debt that was also accumulated because of Brugal, of Ciegsa, of Gürtel, of the Taula case, because of corruption turned into government. The Valencian Community has had few resources, it is true, but those resources have not been allocated to the rescue of citizens, but to the rescue of the powerful. Gentlemen of the People's Party, they were able to choose and choose to turn their backs on the people, to turn their backs on the people who needed it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you were able to choose and you chose that we had to wait five years to approve this reform of the statute. Funding is a historic and just claim of the Valencian people. Please do not use it as an excuse to hide the mismanagement and corruption of your governments, your deeply anti-Valencian policy. We can therefore congratulate ourselves here today on coming together, the Valencian political forces, and also the People's Party. We can congratulate ourselves on the important step we have taken, but we cannot stop. In order to guarantee a future of prosperity, equality and self-government for the Valencian Community, we will continue to demand a system of fair financing and the recognition and removal of historical debt. This reform is only the first step, the first step of a path that we must take in this legislature to solve the great threat to the welfare state and to Valencian self-government. We need a responsible government, capable of addressing the territorial issue. We need to start an honest and sincere dialogue between this Parliament and the autonomous parliaments in order to find a fair financing model that is the pillar of the new pact of coexistence between the peoples of this country. We need to adopt during this parliamentary term general budgets that guarantee the principles of equity, solidarity and sufficiency for Valencians, but also for the rest of autonomy. That is why the parliamentary group I represent will vote for the reform of the Statute of Valencia that we are debating today, but we will not remain there. We will call for the establishment in this Congress of a commission of study for the reform of the autonomous financing system that resolves the imbalances and inequalities that the current model produces, in order to find a solution to Valencian financing and, as I say, not only to it, but also to that of other autonomous communities, within a country of countries based on fraternity, solidarity and equality among its peoples. We will continue to drive a government of change to the Valencian that bravely and responsibly faces the challenges of the moment and is ready to work for a new territorial and funding model so that this reform of the statute, which has cost us so much to get to this House, will not be left in wet paper. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs Ballester. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President of Congress. I would like to begin by welcoming of course the President of the Valencian Generalitat, the President of Les Corts, the members of the Council and the Bureau of Les Corts who accompany us this afternoon and also the members of the autonomous deputies who are in the guest gallery. The truth is, a while ago I felt shame. I have felt shame listening in this rostrum to a representative of the Valencian People's Party. I have probably felt the shame of the Valencian PP not doing what he has done for twenty years in the Valencian Community. That's the shame I've felt. [[Applauds]] It would only be necessary for me now to come up to this rostrum to defend the position of the parliamentary group, which was the Finance Adviser in the years when bills were hidden in the drawers, which is the result of which we have received the sanction of the European Commission, and which is now a Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to recall, as has been said this afternoon, that the proposal for the reform of the autonomous status of the Valencian Community, which we are dealing with today, was adopted in Les Corts Valencianes in March 2011, after the Valencian Government has, by the way, dealt with it as a matter of urgency. If more than five years have passed since then and if we are still here today voting on it, it is because throughout the past parliamentary term the absolute majority of the People's Party in this Parliament, in connivance with another absolute majority of the People's Party in Les Corts Valencianes, did everything possible to postpone its debate with absurd arguments which only sought to avoid - with little success, of course - the lack of support from the leadership of the PP to this reform of the Valencian Statue. Only at the end of the last parliamentary term, when the People's Party no longer had an absolute majority in Les Corts Valencianes and there was not enough time left to process it completely, only then, on the eve of the elections, gave way to its processing in Congress. We are confident that the procedure for final approval of the reform of the statute will really start this afternoon. Of course, for Valencians and Valencians, this reform is an additional reason to hope that this legislature can continue beyond 2 May, so that the reform of the Autonomous Statute of the Valencian Community can be approved as soon as possible. As an Alicante and as a socialist I trust it to be so. I am convinced that the adoption of this reform of the Valencian Statute would also be one of the fruits of the change of policies that could be associated with the change of government that we hope will take place in the coming weeks. The Socialist Group will, of course, support this reform, as it did in the past parliamentary term, when it tried to push it against the wishes of the People's Group, and will do so because it is aware of the capacity, possibilities and enormous push of the Valencian Community, it will do so because it knows that if the Valencian Community is doing well, Spain will do much better. The people we live in the Valencian Community are making a great effort. In twenty years, those of us who live there have gone from having a per capita income that was close to the average of Spain to finding ourselves at 2,704 euros below it. What this represents is that in the Valencian Community we have for the whole year a per capita income equivalent to just over ten and a half months of the average annual income of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in comparative terms a poor community. However, all the reports, all of them, all of them that analyze the territorial distribution of public revenue and expenditure over the last decades, including those of the Ministry of Finance, show that those of us who live in the Valencian Community, despite being poor, contribute as if we were rich to all the spending policies that are carried out in Spain. One of the reasons for this - it has been said this afternoon - is the system of autonomous financing, which has placed the Valencian Community very far from the average per capita income, and has done so for decades. The current model is probably not the worst we have had, but it is very insufficient, because basically it preserves the status quo derived from previous models in these years of crisis that have been very hard for everyone, but especially for the Valencian Community. Perhaps that is why the regulation of the autonomous financing system itself provided for the revision of the model within five years of its entry into force so that the imbalances that had been observed could be corrected, in order to ensure the financial sufficiency of all the autonomous communities, but that troika formed by Mr Rajoy, Mr Montoro and Mr Beteta preferred to continue to cut expenditure on health care, to cut expenditure on education, to cut expenditure on dependence, preferred to curtail the political and financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, which are responsible for providing such important public services. The other reason for the comparative situation of the Valencian Community is the lack of investment by the State, which has almost always been much lower in the community than our population, to our contribution to the gross domestic product, especially in recent years, when after the sharp decline that they experienced after the arrival of Mr Rajoy in La Moncloa ended up falling to about 6% in two consecutive budgets, a percentage of 6% which is just over half the participation of the Valencian Community population in the population of Spain. In Rajoy's five budgets, almost EUR 2 billion in state investment has been lacking to reach a proportion equivalent to that of the Valencian population, EUR 2 billion, nothing more and nothing less. The problem is that, as is almost always the case with Rajoy, reality has worsened the most pessimistic forecasts, because budgets are nothing more than that, forecasts. The reality of public works and, above all, the expectations of their future evolution are mainly reflected in the bidding process. I will show you a graph clearly showing the evolution of the public works tender in the Valencian Community over the last ten years. The years that are in red are the years of socialist government. There were even two years, 2007 and 2008, in which the weight of the public works tender on the total of Spain was greater than the weight of the population of the Valencian Community. The average of the years in red that are here is 10.6%, equivalent to the weight of the population of the Valencian Community. But it arrived 2012, Rajoy arrived - are the bars that are in blue - and what is observed? It is noted that in the four-year average, the weight of the public works tender in the Valencian Community fell to just over 4 % and in the last two years it did not even reach 3 %. Nor does it say, of course, that these percentages are so low that they are recorded in 2014 and 2015 what they mean is that, if the public works bid is so low, public works can hardly be executed in the coming months and, if the trend does not change, neither in the coming years. I don't want to tire them with numbers, but let me have one more. See, in order for the tender for new works - only the tender for new works, which is the one represented in the graph - to have reached a percentage equivalent to that of the Valencian population, one and a half additional euro would have to have been tendered for each euro that has actually been tendered. And, look, I wouldn't want you to think that after the reform of the Valencian Statute a victimist discourse is hidden, because victimism, which has been practiced a lot in the years of the People's Party in the Valencian Community, is a strategy of losers and I can assure you that Valencians and Valencians do not resign to being losers. Nor do I want you to see in the reform of the statute a show of insolidity, because in the Valencian Community more than 5 million people live who have been solidarity, who are being solidarity and who want to continue being solidarity. What these people are demanding, those 5 million people, is nothing more than having the opportunities that the Rajoy government has denied them, a government that has not trusted the Valencian Community. You know why? Because probably when he looked at the Valencian Community what he saw was his fellow People's Party in the Valencian Community, the same people who built a stone cardboard decor to project the false image of a happy Levant as public services deteriorated, as waste spread, as deficit figures were manipulated and as expenditure controls weakened, the same people who allowed corruption to go wide by Valencian institutions and used those institutions to get doped at elections. But the image of the happy Levant that they wanted to build was not true, nor was it the image that projected the passage of the People's Party through the Valencian Community over the past twenty years. Ladies and gentlemen, the Valencian is an honest people, a working people, a people with a huge capacity to undertake, a people that is making a huge effort to lift the economic and'reputational' mortgage that has left twenty years of governments of the People's Party, of those governments to which Mariano Rajoy - absent - set as an example what his work would be at the head of the Government of Spain. It is a pity that Mr Rajoy has brought to La Moncloa a sample of the worst that the Valencian Community can offer, because in the Valencian Community there are more than 5 million indefatigable men and women who continue to be willing to move forward, who want to make effective and efficient use of public resources, investments and infrastructure. They are the same people who, despite the lack of funding, despite the lack of investments by the State, have managed to have the Valencian Community operate as a locomotive for economic growth in Spain in 2015 and that, according to forecasts that have come out today, will also be in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the Valencians define very well that phrase that one of the great poets of our land wrote when he put on a paper that 'Hi haura haura a day that we can no longer and then we can all'. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. López Milla. In conclusion, Mr Camps has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I say my first words once again in addition to those which have already been spoken by other parliamentary spokesmen earlier and which greeted the very Honourable President of the Valencian Community, the Honourable Vice-President, the very excellent President of Les Corts, the syndic accompanying him and also those representatives of the Valencian Courts who have spoken earlier that we have done so by the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups. Today we are discussing the proposal of organic law - and I read textual, the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya - to reform the first additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. I emphasize, Valencian Community, not Valencian country supposedly part of some Catalan countries that exist only in the collective imagination of some of you. [[Applauds]] My land is called the Valencian Community. I also rise to this rostrum to defend the position of my group, proud, Mr López, proud of the governments of the People's Party in the Valencian Community, of his work, with some mistakes, but with many more correct than mistakes during all these years. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u31	Besides, Mr. Lopez, no shame. Shame on the bull is what you should have, because look at what example you've set. To the Councillor who regularized the so-called unrecognized health obligations in 2007 and 2009, that is to say, myself, you set this as an example when the socialist governments left in 1995 15 billion of the old pesetas in bills in the health drawers. [[Applauds]] I was very young, but just like Mr. President, who was there, he did remember. And I said that again, ladies and gentlemen, because this debate has already taken place in these Courts on 16 September 2015. I have already had the responsibility and, if I may, the honour to represent my parliamentary group, the People's Parliamentary Group, then and now the largest in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the same proposal, the same party, the same parliamentary group, the same rapporteur, the same respect for procedure, the same rigour with regard to the substance of the matter, the same consistency with regard to our vote or, as it is, the same political position. Ladies and gentlemen, from my group we respect the decision of the Bureau and of the Board of Spokesmen of this House which brings with it the repetition of this debate, as we also respect the decisions adopted by the Valencian Les Corts by postponing it; respect each and every one of these decisions, regardless of who took them, because what unites us all here today - and we must not forget it - is a statutory reform presented by the People's Party Council; a reform that was adopted by autonomous courts with a majority of the People's Party; a reform that was taken into consideration in this House with the favourable vote of the then majority group, that of the People's Party, and a reform that today will again be taken into consideration by the affirmative vote of the group that remains the majority in this House, that of the People's Party, and, ladies and gentlemen, as I said today, with consistency and rigour, something that has missed more than one parliamentary group this afternoon. Rigor, ladies and gentlemen, because, although at the heart of the proposal that we are debating today underlies a legitimate aspiration common to all of us, as it is to guarantee a certain level of State investment in the various autonomous communities, its cause and main foundation lie in the very statement of reasons for the proposed law that we are debating today and which I remind you of was approved by a large majority of Les Corts Valencianes - not unanimously, Mr Ferri, a large majority - and it says in text: The Valencian Community does not intend to be above any other territory within Spain, but it will also not allow its legitimate aspirations to be truncated by the consolidation of an asymmetric model in which some autonomous communities can, to the detriment of others, gain access to more skills, more funding, more investment or more infrastructure. Or what is the same thing, with the adoption of this additional provision, what we wanted was to put an end to an unjust and insolidary model, the result of the decisions taken by the Socialist Government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero and which, fortunately, thanks to the policies of the People's Party, is now lagging behind. Anyone who today complains about Mr Montoro forgets that Mr Solbes and Mrs Salgado denied the Valencian Community the investment that is being requested today, precisely because they do not have such an approved provision. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Solbes and Mrs Salgado, curious about the socialist veto over the rotating doors. Ladies and gentlemen, just seven months ago - some of you have recalled - the then spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group described in this very debate the economic situation of the Valencian Community as regrettable. I quote, that I do not allude, to Mr Ábalos. He spoke of a Valencian Community marked by an absolutely unfair financing system and regrettable socio-economic indicators. He wasn't very right. In September of last year, as surely today, the Valencian Community was the most economically growing autonomous community in all of Spain. This is demonstrated by the figure of 3.6% growth in 2015, the largest, as I have said, of all the autonomous communities, and which I remind you that in September you Socialists still denied, but I have to admit that in something you were right: the financing model was and is unfair, yes, it is, and not just for the Valencians, but that, ladies and gentlemen, is not today's debate, some of your ladies and gentlemen have been wrong. Let us be serious, the debate before us today is about a provision that no longer binds the General Courts in the exercise of their functions of examining, amending and approving the General Budgets of the State, or, which is the same, does not bind the State in its investment policy or undermine the full freedom of these Courts to decide on them. Therefore, all the arguments put forward here this afternoon that what they claim is, from the adoption of such rules, to attempt to build in the statutes of autonomy a system of financing for investments that differs territorially according to the variable criterion that is more favorable at every moment to the interests of each autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, no. Today there is no point in the proposals for a parliamentary trap which were tried at other times - Mr Baldoví, do you remember them? - everything is said, without any success. Today they can no longer but recognize one thing, that the decisions of a socio-economic nature taken by the governments of the People's Party, both in the Valencian Community and in Spain, have brought with them economic growth, employment and social welfare, the real basis of any increase in investments. Your lordships would be able to deny it, I know. Its capacity is unmatched. More than capacity would be a dare that would, if they did, sprinkle the ridiculous parliamentarian, because, if not, answer these questions. They tell the Valencian Community what the governments of the People's Party left behind. Is the Valencian Community growing or not by 3.6% in 2015, Spain's first community? Did unemployment drop in more than 40,000 people in the last year in the Valencian Community and increase employment in more than 60,000 people or not? Will the Valencian Community lead growth in exports at national level or not? Were we at the head, and are we, of the growth of the tourism sector? Is our industrial production index growing or not, especially in the manufacturing industry? Is residential construction in the Valencian Community recovered or not? Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to deny it, you deny the obvious, because what they reveal is nothing other than your own unconsciousness or, worse, Mr López, the limited partisan interest that guides your actions. And get me out, get me out the chart, get me out the chart. What a pain the graphics are, Mr. Lopez! You're so hurt. How to twist the numbers sometimes! But I will tell you one thing that is true, that even their own group partners recognized: in none of the years of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's government the investment in the Valencian Community is that it did not reach its percentage of participation in the population, no, it is that it did not even reach the percentage of participation in the gross domestic product of this country; in none of the years of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's government. You take the picture out. I'll explain it to you differently. As the President of the Government would say, I will explain it to you so that you can understand it. If today the Valencian Community leads economic growth and job creation in Spain, it is thanks to the economic and social policies of the People's Party. And if today the Valencian Community has a deficit above the average of the autonomous communities, it is for an unjust financing system that some of you, Socialists and La Izquierda Plural, approved in 2009 and applauded many more. [[Applauds]] I think you understand me, ladies and gentlemen. But look, if rigour once again supports our approach, coherence makes it stronger. Therefore, because we are consistent, we will vote in favour of taking account of the proposal as we did in these Courts on the occasion of the adoption of the reform of the Statute of Andalusia there in November 2006. We will vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration as we did in the Valencian Courts in February 2011. We will vote in favour as we did on 16 September, and as I have already had occasion to express in this rostrum, not everyone can say the same, simply because they have not done so. Some people change ideas or approaches depending on whether they are in the opposition or in the government, we do not. That is why I can end this speech today by repeating the words that I already reproduced in the previous debate and that he said in this House Mariano Rajoy - since you have missed him so much - in 2006: We will always be open to measures that bring a clear benefit to the people. We will always be stubbornly committed to protecting the democratic legality that emanates from the 1978 Constitution. We will defend in all circumstances the unity of the citizens, the equality of their rights and that co-responsibility between the two Spaniards whom we call solidarity. This is our framework and this is our will for coexistence and understanding. These are our rules, which can be summed up in one: with the People's Party it is possible to go anywhere within the constitutional path and nowhere outside it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u32	Thank you, Mr. Camps. We have concluded the debate on the proposal to reform the Statute of the Valencian Community and I would like to thank again, on behalf of the House, the representatives of Les Corts for their presence and participation in this debate. I would also like to thank, of course, the President of these Corts, Mr Enric Morera, who accompanies us from the rostrum, and the entire delegation who has come from this territory headed by his President, the President of the Valencian Generalitat, Mr Ximo Puig. Thank you very much. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u33	It is appropriate to discuss the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the suspension of the timetable for the implementation of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, for the improvement of the quality of education. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u34	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the educational community, I rise to this rostrum to request that consideration be given to a proposal for a law aimed at suspending the implementation of the Lomce. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u35	A little silence, please. Wait, Mr. Simancas. Please, if you're going out of the Chamber, do it quietly.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u36	The bad call - it said - Law for the improvement of the quality of education. We also want the stoppage of the Lomce to be the first step towards its effective repeal and its replacement by a new regulatory framework, a new stable, lasting regulation, which must be the result of a great social and political pact on the best future for education in Spain. As you know, the Lomce was approved in December 2013 with the exclusive support of the People's Party and with most of the educational community manifestly against: teachers, students, parents of pupils, autonomous administrations. Therefore, it is an undialogued and unagreed law, a structural law imposed by a short-term majority and, now that the majority have changed, would probably suffice with this argument to claim the paralysis of the Lomce. However, the Socialist Group does not call for the end of this law because it is a law of the PP that treats the ideas and interests defended by the PP alone and in a sectarian way. We propose to stop Lomce because its implementation is causing uncertainties, confusion, practical difficulties and serious harm in educational institutions for teachers, teachers, students and families. And above all, we ask to stop this law because it is a bad law for education in our country. In the Socialist Group we are convinced that the future of Spain will be what its education is and we do not want for the future of our country the backwardness, inequality, authoritarianism and old clericalism represented by Lomce. [[Applauds]] Let us stop the Lomce, repeal the Lomce and achieve as soon as possible a great social and political pact that provides Spanish society with the quality and equal opportunities it needs and deserves. This is the purpose of the proposal that we are presenting to you. Ladies and gentlemen, on 13 August 2015, the Ministry of Education rejected the proposal of up to twelve of the seventeen autonomous administrations to carry out a moratorium on the Lomce, a moratorium on the conflicting implementation of an already conflicting law; a majority that has been reproduced today at the meeting of the General Commission of the Ministry of Education, this very morning: twelve of seventeen autonomous communities. But the Government has refused, the Government wants a hasty application of its law, to mascaraballo, without taking into account the opinion and the logical difficulties in the educational institutions. Consequently, the implantation of Lomce is being precipitated, confused, with contradictory instructions and without sufficient resources. Among the most controversial developments in the law are, of course, the famous revalidates. In just a few weeks, if we don't fix it, hundreds of thousands of boys and girls who are in primary school will face an anachronistic and useless test. Because, what is the purpose of this revalidation? To detect problems affecting the whole of primary education in order to correct them? What then makes sense to do the test at the very end of the stage, when there is no longer any correction? Is it a question of ascertaining the degree of competence of pupils? Why not then rely on the assessment of the teachers who work day by day with these students and know very well about their evolution? Why despise the work of these teachers and rely more on the result of a concrete test that is done in a few minutes and that can be biased by the nerves or by a bad day for the student? This test responds to the pedagogical anachronism of conceiving the development of learning as a kind of career of obstacles that the student must overcome in order not to be thrown into the gutter of school failure. Even worse, the test responds to the interest in developing competitive ranquins with which to reward certain educational institutions and with which to stigmatize others without taking into account the very different conditions in which they have to do their work day by day. Of course, evaluate to diagnose and improve, yes, always, but evaluate to compete, to reward even more the rich centers and to stigmatize even more the poor centers, no, do not count, ladies and gentlemen, with us for this. This revalidation only serves to cause stress in young children, to generate an undeserved mistrust among teachers and to add tensions, dysfunctions and budgetary stress to educational institutions that are already heavily punished by cuts. And if there are problems in primary revalidation, there are no less problems with the revalidation that Lomce has sown in secondary education and high school which are also punitive: either you approve or fail. If a difficult but relevant consensus existed in our teaching, it was that established around selectivity. The university access test guarantees, even today, minimum skills for students who arrive at higher education and at the same time this test distributes candidates in the most demanded studies by means of a single test, valid for all campuses, guaranteeing equal opportunities. With the Lomce this consensus has jumped through the air and right now the baccalaureate students of this country are experiencing an absolute uncertainty about the procedures that will take them to university from the next course. If we don't fix it here, there will be no more selectivity in 2017. Students will have to overcome the revalid punitive of 2nd Bachelor's degree and will also have to overcome the tests that each of the universities specifically establish. That is to say, an aspiring student can spend months or years studying medicine, after passing the baccalaureate revalidation, doing a different test of access in each university. In addition to being crazy, this is a process that eliminates equal opportunities. The Conference of Rectors, logically, has called for a moratorium on the Government in office, and the Government in office, logically, logically, has refused, of course. But there's more, much more. Bachelor's 2nd repeaters who have attended with LOE model this year will have to repeat with Lomce model next year. It makes no sense, but no one has solved the problem yet and no one has established who will pay for the solution to the problem. Students of the basic FP, even those who obtain an approved scraping, have priority over those who graduate in high school, including the outstanding ones, to access the middle-grade FP. It does not make sense, nor does it have a solution. The transition from middle- to upper-level vocational training is also unresolved and the case of a middle-level gardener who decides to attend higher-level nursing without any obstacles can be perfectly resolved. It could pass perfectly - let me joke - to be able to amputate without any hindrance. Ladies and gentlemen, Lomce is a bad law that is being applied in a harsh way, without dialogue with the educational community, without agreement with the autonomous administrations, without clarity in the instructions to educational institutions, without respect for teaching professionals, without sufficient financial resources. Lomce is a bad law and its implementation is a real disaster, a disaster that we have to stop with this initiative that we submit to the plenary of Congress. We want to stop and we want to repeal the Lomce, but not because it is a law of the PP; we want to stop and repeal the Lomce because it is a law that does not solve the problems of education in the present and because it generates even more serious problems for the future. The Lomce part, ladies and gentlemen, of a false analysis. The difficulties of our teaching are not in the results of the PISA reports, in which we usually appear in the middle sections, and the root of our high school dropout has very little to do with any law, this and the previous. It is not true, as the ideologists of the Lomce argue, that in Spanish education there is a lack of effort, talent, excellence. What is lacking in Spanish education, especially after the People's Party has passed through the governments, is the resources so that the effort and talent of our teachers and students can be transformed into individual and collective success. This is what's missing. Of course we seek excellence, we all want excellence, but for us excellence without equity, without equal opportunities is only elitism, discrimination and social Darwinism. Of course there are problems in Spanish education, but they are not solved, ladies and gentlemen, with revalidations and catechisms. The real problems of Spanish education are solved with dialogue, with investment, with respect for teachers and with a simultaneous bet for quality and equity. That's why we don't like a segregating law like Lomce. The education system should serve to compensate for the starting inequalities with which the child reaches education, not to consolidate these inequalities with early segregation and with revalidation of punishment. In the face of social inequalities, there are two educational models: one that helps everyone according to their needs and one that discriminates early between presumed smart and presumed clumsy to send them on different paths, and the Lomce represents the second model, the most unjust. Lomce is also a mercantilist law, because it seeks to train good employees who are capable citizens and citizens must be able to be good employees and also be able to critically exercise their rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] He is a mercantilist because he allows a student to go through the entire compulsory schooling stage without ever having studied philosophy and is mercantilist because he makes it possible for all the Granados Franciscos of this country to award public land to build private educational centers and that the furniture assemblers of Ikea later forget their suitcases with hundreds of thousands of euros in the bedrooms of their father-in-laws. [[Applauds]] It is also an authoritarian law and contrary to democratic participation in educational institutions, because it reduces the decision-making capacity of school councils, teachers and families, while strengthening the decision-making capacity of directors appointed at the request of the Administration. And it is a clerical law, because it reverses the secular tendency of Spanish society itself, turning religious indoctrination into curriculum and evaluable matter. As our European neighbours seek to strengthen the educational curriculum with more languages, more technology and more soft skills, here we examine children with our fathers and weafers, and this is what they call educational quality. [[Applauds]] It is a law that strengthens religion and devalues vocational training, thought again - as in the past - to pick up the residual student of the system, as the path of failure, as the pre-established destination for students with difficulties. Creannos, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish FP does not need to import big inventions; it needs places, teachers and the resources you cut. It is a law that does not respect teachers because it denies them the training they require; it does not respect families because it limits their democratic participation; it does not respect educational institutions and territorial administrations because it denies them the basic resources to carry out their work. It is a cheap law for devalued education, as the report of the Council of State showed. It's a law for low-cost education. In fact, Lomce is the third step in a calculated strategy of dismantling quality public education. First were the cuts in educational spending, then the cuts in scholarships and later the law to administer a cheap education. The right usually claims the efficient use of resources, but does not usually admit that in order for resources to be efficient first they have to be sufficient, and Lomce's resources are not. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to repeal the Lomce to replace it with a new law resulting from a great social and political pact, as we said. It will be difficult because there are great ideological differences between some of us. We all say promoting talent to achieve success, but some emphasize equal opportunities while others emphasize free choice and survival only of the strongest. For the PP excellence has to do with results and the ranquins, and for the Socialist Party excellence depends on equity, attention to diversity, participation and acquired knowledge. [[Applauds]] For us the public is a guarantee of justice, for the PP the private is a guarantee of freedom to perpetuate differences; the inclusive versus the competitive, the participatory versus the hierarchical, the secular versus the confessional. There are differences, yes, fundamental differences. Now, is the agreement necessary? Undoubtedly, yes. The foundations of the education system are the very foundations of coexistence, the pillars on which individual progress and collective development are based. No law will be able to change the educational system thoroughly and better if it is not based on a broad social and political consensus. It is not a question of returning to the Logse or the LOE; that is not what we intend, although we will always claim the contribution of socialist laws to the universalization and socialization of education in our country. We do not want to go back to the Logse or LOE, but they will understand that neither do we conform to the Lomce of the Revivals and Prayers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I shall finish as I began. There are laws for being and laws for being. Spain will be whatever your education is. We want quality education and equity for a more developed and fairer Spain. Change in the law, change in education and change in government as soon as possible. Let's get to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u37	Thank you, Mr. Simancas. No one has requested the use of the counter shift. We therefore move on to position-fixing. We start with the Joint Group and Mrs Oramas, who has two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are bringing to this House a matter which has as its main feature the absence of dialogue, because if there is a project which it has had against all social sectors, it is Lomce, a law which is born obviating participation, debate and consensus. By focusing only on some of the most worrying aspects that affect the Canary Islands, I will talk about the elimination of primary education cycles, which makes it difficult to respect the individualized learning rhythms that are worked and considered in our community. Furthermore, we do not believe in the existence of centres that secrete students by sex, a discriminatory measure that runs counter to coexistence in the twenty-first century. As far as school councils are concerned, they are transformed into informational bodies only. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that one of the measures that we are most concerned about is external assessments, establishing ranquins between centres and - we are afraid - without taking into account the socio-economic and cultural contexts, which are the ones that help explain and understand the results, not only between autonomous communities but also within them. Throughout this process, the characteristics of territories such as the Canary Islands have not been taken into account, and these tests will apply externally to the centre. Does the state know that in the Canary Islands we are eight islands and what it would mean to displace the teacher? Does the state know that we have scattered students in unitary schools and in a complicated orographic territory? Have any consideration been given to how to organise the application of tests in private centres? Once again it is treated the same as those who are different. There has to be a new education law which this time is supported by all political parties and endorsed by society, which has stability over time and where vocational training has a fundamental role. We are talking about education, ladies and gentlemen, about what is at the heart of societies, which forms responsible citizens, which creates critical awareness and differentiates an advanced country from another underdeveloped country. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr Martinez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is enough to read the explanatory statement of this initiative to uncover the revanchism that camouflages under the lure of the improvement of education. We are faced with a clumsy display of pure and harsh generic, topical and rhetorical disqualifications that demonstrate the irritability that causes Pedro Sánchez's colleagues not to control the teaching after being gently retouched and reformed, which is not repealed, his latest educational law, the LOE. Foro disagreed with Lomce because it did not change the squalid structure of the school system, a consequence of existing socialist legislation, nor did it rectify even weaker aspects of the teaching staff, although we appreciate the existence of revalidations and external tests of a national nature, of effective use throughout Europe, because they stimulate the effort and the degree of demand. However, today we reject this pathetic purpose of socialist blockade which has as its main and great harm to the students. The Lomce is already applied to the whole in Primary, in the 1st and 3rd of ESO and in the 1st of Baccalaureate. How are the students going to fit in with a new change? How will it impact on all those who need diversity care measures because of their different shortcomings? A halting of the implementation schedule seriously harms those at the centre of education policy. Several of the paragraphs of this proposal are worthy of the anthology of folly and the finding of the helplessness to which the injured students will be drawn. Blurred and new count. Not a few will be defined as children of a middle plan. This unacceptable clumsiness already has a similar precedent during the democratic period. Today we are witnessing the same brownish reissue that the socialists incited against the LOCE promoted by the then government of José María Aznar. For the Forum, pacts on matters as sacrosanct as education must be forged in a coordinated manner within the framework of the Sectoral Conference on Education and should be useful for improving the Lomce, developing its rules and correcting its weaknesses, always in a consensual manner with the entire educational community. The group of Pedro Sánchez does not even mention in this reformer's note that he now sponsors how the structure, curriculum of subjects, the organization of classrooms and centers, the teaching staff, vocational training, the maintenance of socialist law will be affected. Nothing at all. Its slogan is: Let's paralyze the Lomce and then we'll see if we'll deal under rope, to the Bolivarian, in streaming or in Periscope, which is more modern. If this proposal is approved, it will be another colossal false step in the already very turbulent Spanish educational policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. For UPN the improvement of the education of our children, of the Spanish youth, is one of the objectives that as a country we should all prioritize. We have always defended two principles: one, that we should depoliticize this issue as much as possible and take it out of the dialectic pympampum, which solves nothing, and, two, that we should reach a broad political consensus, among all, on technical bases, teachers. That should be the radiating core that promoted an even broader agreement among the true educational agents. We abstained from Lomce because it did not introduce those interesting contributions that we thought were improving it and today we will not do so with this proposal because it does not address the important issues of education. Moreover, if his proposal were approved, it would create more conflicts than it intended to resolve, especially because it would further increase the differences between the different autonomic models, by establishing different criteria and paces of implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, educational debates should include promoting a genuine system of permanent and integral evaluation of the system; defending the freedom and responsibility of parents to educate our children - if they do not like the word freedom, call it the right to decide; it is more of their liking -; deignifying public education to fulfil its key objective, which is to be able to match above all the opportunities of all Spaniards, especially those who have less opportunities; copying - this should not be heard by my daughters - what is well done elsewhere; and, no doubt, listening to those who know, teachers, experts, etc. The worst we could do in the field of education would be to fall into the temptation to make education an instrument of social control, of social engineering. When education becomes an obsession for politicians, ladies and gentlemen, the foundations are being laid for it to fail to achieve its true objectives. The case of Navarra today is one of the most unfortunate and scandalous in Europe. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we should recover some values that are banned or forgotten - do not tell me why - that do not make us agree on the model or that we are proud of the system, which has always been poorly evaluated abroad; values such as effort, work, discipline, teachers' authority, excellence, integration, equality, quality, competence and also illusion, which many of our teachers have lost. We are therefore asking ourselves today, but we are also asking all of your ladies and gentlemen, a high point of view, a sense of state and a vision of the future, something that this initiative lacks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u43	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mrs Enbeita has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in its day, despite the fact that the educational community was absolutely against it, the People's Party approved the Lomce. Alone before the House, with the no more rotund of the rest of the political parties, Mr Wert ended up implanting his whim. After the passing of the law, the People's Party has failed to convince anyone of how important and good this law has been. In Euskal Herria, for example, the trade union majority has spoken out against this law, society has repeatedly mobilized, there are parents who have opted for their children to disobey the invalids, despite the educational consequences, student strikes are repeated against Lomce and the university reform of 3+2. But some, as always, there remain in their particular error. We are now glad that as an exercise of common sense we can discuss or decide in this House the decommissioning of the Lomce, if that word exists, I will be forgiven that I am a public school student. But stopping the calendar is not enough. In the previous legislature this House made a clear commitment that it said: The undersigned parliamentary groups agree that at the first session of the next legislature they will proceed to repeal the Lomce and immediately paralyse its implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSOE is presenting us today with a proposal to stop the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce, but we are not talking about the repeal. Ladies and gentlemen, being honest with each other, the compromise that was made was the repeal. What we should achieve is the repeal, because Lomce will never guarantee us a gender equality education that builds us a youth with a critical capacity or, for example, that guarantees the same opportunities for all. Starting with non-application is fine, it's a step forward, as long as the derogation commitment remains on its feet. If you don't let a lot of people down again. In the case of Euskal Herria, and making it clear that we are absolutely against Lomce and everything that can come to mean, we demand an education system of our own, sovereign, Basque, even and free of religions. And seeing what the agreements are worth and what changes the words in this House, once again, it is clear that if Euskal Herria will end up having an education system as it deserves, it will be because it has been the Basque society and educational community that have built their own model. And that's where we're at.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. Mrs Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u46	Paralyzing the Lomce implementation schedule. I am not going to stop at whether or not we agree with Lomce because we already know everyone and everything we think of this bad law. But let us get to the bottom of the matter of the proposal that we have on the table today, which is the only thing he proposes is the halting of the timetable. Are we going to vote for that? Obviously, it is, because it is indispensable. However, from the United Left-Popular Unity we hope that this first non-compliance of the PSOE with its commitment to repeal the Lomce will not be a drift towards past times like, NATO's entry, and it will become a new revival that can lead us to things like, labor reform of entry, or Law gag of entry no. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u47	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u48	I have been delighted to hear Mr Simancas say the word abrogation a couple of times, because if you have not lied to your voters and are failing to comply with a pact that you have signed with all the opposition, you will have to learn to conjugate the verb abrogation, which is not a heresy, is a verb simply. We are also concerned about another issue: when within the short text that we are discussing today they say that a new pact is needed, because in reality this is not necessary. We're not making a new deal. If not, you will throw into the trash bin what for more than two years has been being agreed with the Green Sea, with the Student Union, with the platform for public education with which we have all also signed the basic document pact for a new law on education, social and political agreement on education, and which must be the basis of the next thing we start to build to replace this bad law, and what we have to do is not paralyse a calendar, but repeal the law absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez. Mrs Sorlí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u50	President, ladies and gentlemen, we sincerely applaud this initiative, but it seems to us insufficient. We find it insufficient to paralyse a law in which the word competitiveness appears rather than the word law. The Lomce is an archaic law, which has ignored the educational community, which has ignored the teacher, which ignores the centers. It is a law that converts the word education into a commodity, a commodity to impose your paid ideology with the money of everyone, that segregates, that imposes religion, that links resources to results, without taking into account inequalities and guaranteeing elitism. A law that mortgages the future at age 14. Did you know what you wanted to do when you were fourteen? I don't think so. In the case of the Valencian country, the under-financing must be added to all this. We are still waiting for Mr Montoro to tell us which centers we have to close to meet that happy deficit. We do not want a new law; Compromís does not want it; we want an educational pact, agreed and signed; a pact that includes the educational community, that guarantees the autonomy of the centers, that legislates for equal rights and access, that marks the educational bases, that decentralizes competences and that favors territorial participation. A pact similar to that of Finland, with which we fill our mouths by using it as an example. A pact that is above ideologies and legislatures. Finally, a pact that resembles the Valencian Government; today we have had a great example. A pact that brings solutions, that generates consensus and that does not throw away the things that have been done wrong. As the Valencian government, as I said before, led by Pérez-Marsá and Monica Oltra, of whom we want to be the speaker. We need a government to let us move forward, to let society move forward; a government to make courageous decisions, to have the guts to repeal a law of mercantilist and elitist education. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Sorlí. Mr Agirretxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The Basque Nationalist Group has always positioned itself against the Lomce. Therefore, it is not going to be new today that we support the consideration of the Socialist Group's proposal for a law for this stoppage. I understand that we all have the same desire that this law be repealed, but there are some mechanisms that need to be taken into account so that this has a positive effect on the educational community - which is what it is - and that there is no legal vacuum at any given time. Therefore the urgency at this time is true that it is the paralysis of these harmful tests that should never have been given. As I said, we have always stood against Lomce, even before the law was passed, when it began to be debated among the educational community, and when there was the idea that this bill was going to be passed. There were meetings, debates in the Senate, in Congress, meetings with the various autonomous communities and the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government - in which it held the title - from the very beginning they were opposed at the front. For various reasons, several fundamentals and some of them basic to us - and I regret that it was not appointed in the intervention of the proposer - because it violates the right of competence of the Basque Autonomous Community in the field of education, as they say in the Statute of Autonomy and the Constitution itself. The Statute of Autonomy, in its article 16 - and I want it to be taken into account, because this is not an invention that some want or have privileges and things like that. No, the Statute of Autonomy says, and therefore it is something that must also be taken into account by anyone who wants to make a new law, because it will be fundamental if he wants the support of the Basque Nationalist Party -, he says: In application of the first additional provision of the Constitution it is the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to teach in all its extent, levels and degrees, modalities and specialties, without prejudice to article 27 of the Constitution. I therefore believe that it is clear that we are competent in this area and have full sovereignty in this area. In short, this law, Lomce, clearly violates this right of the Basque Autonomous Community. On the other hand, and already entering into a matter that is not in the competence field, although for us it is fundamental, we believe that there are no solid studies that support the decision of the ministry on the implementation of this law, on the positive that this law has and that it justifies in some way that it was necessary, that it argues its necessity. There is something fundamental that has also been said by other groups: the lack of consensus in the Spanish State. It is not normal for it to be a seventh modification of an educational program in a serious state. I believe that every government that has come has brought its Education Act, and since it has been its candy, it has taken it out and come to change and come to change. But at the end of the day, who was the one who was harmed? The students themselves, who in the end did not know where they had to go, because each legislature had a new Education Act. Our group does not at all share - it did not share it at the time and now neither clearly - the point of view of quality in the teaching proposed by this law, since we consider it very limited. The educational model proposed by Lomce is not fair with the qualifications of the students, since it is reduced only to academic results and does not take into account the rest of the qualities, and yes, it is a tool of homogenization. We do not care that other autonomous communities want to propose or are willing to accept the educational programmes that are implemented from Madrid and what the central government wants, but not in Euskadi. We have our own model, we have our own curriculum, we have our own education system, and we have an educational community of parents, students, teachers, trade unions and administration that has worked together, which has developed education laws that have worked very well for many years. Therefore, we do not need any other law that imposes on us criteria that are alien to us, and article 16 of the Statute of Autonomy clearly reflects the competence that we commented on. As for the Basque education system, I have to say that its current results - to prove that we do not need any Lomce - are better, much better than the objectives set by the Lomce. Lomce aims to reach 15% of the early retirement rate by 2020; in Euskadi it is already 11.5 compared to the Spanish average of 24.9. It aims to increase the rates of post-compulsory secondary education; in Euskadi it is 82.92 as against 65 % of the Spanish State. Looking at the FP, another of the main foundations of the education system, which is becoming increasingly important today, the Basque graduation rate is 53.5% compared to 40% in the Spanish State. The percentage of young people who neither study nor work in Euskadi is 15.3 while in Spain this figure is rising to 23.5, almost 24 and so on and so on in Euskadi we hope to improve this rate. The objectives set by Lomce have long been exceeded in Euskadi. The Basque educational system has given answers to all this, and this law does not represent any progress for our real needs, but quite the contrary, it is a path of regression - for us long way we have built in the last twenty years, as I said, between the whole educational community and the Basque Administration - and it attacks the quality, which has reached the Basque educational system I believe in an important way. In short, it is a system that tries to centralize, that tries to interfere where it does not belong, and also does not bring any improvement. That is the final conclusion we can draw. Therefore, as far as the evaluation system is concerned, we obviously agree that we do not need these revalidations at all, that they are damaging, that they are hindering and that they do not bring anything positive. Vocational training, fundamental basis. A week ago, entrepreneurs in Euskadi said that they need more and more people trained in vocational training. What some people said in their day: the one that goes to university and the one that doesn't to FP, today is not valid; I think fortunately that vocational training has more and more value, and in Euskadi we have had an enviable vocational training system, and I believe that the educational community of the whole Spanish State can testify to it. And there is also a fundamental element for us and to which this law does not respond, and it is the treatment of languages. The use of languages in the Basque educational system is the competence of the Basque institutions, and with the regulatory pretension of the languages proposed by the Lomce this implies an unacceptable interference in any case, and away from the constitutional order that some like to add in our linguistic sphere. A competitive invasion that implies a dwindling involution of the Basque self-government. What should have an educational system that could benefit us, that could contribute, that could enrich what we already have? Firstly, that it could determine the organisation of the stages of compulsory and post-compulsory education and the development of the curriculum; that it would allow the Basque Autonomous Community to define the evaluation criteria; that it would allow us to establish essential aspects of the training actions and the curriculum of basic vocational training; that it could determine the content and characteristics of the tests and courses; that it could regulate the conditions and requirements for development, and finally that it could pay attention to the characteristics and peculiarities of the Basque educational community. We will therefore support this consideration, but I repeat what I said at the outset: we will not accept this or any other law that does not address the issues that we have raised, which are basic and fundamental. First, do not interfere in the ground that does not belong to you. We're not going to accept this or any other law that does that, no matter how much it has another name and no matter how much it goes on other paths. And I would like other parties, that other groups could also position themselves in this matter if they truly bet on centralizing laws, however ideologically they might raise an issue that might be far from the Lomce when it comes to competition, if they truly bet on centralist laws, homogenizing laws. We do not need any educational law in Euskadi that tells us what we have to do when we already do it right and we are - I think - an example for many things. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u53	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Postius. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Following the Lomce debates that have taken place in this House in recent years, one realizes the two main problems of having all the education laws dealt with in democracy. Firstly, the political manipulation that has been made of all of them. Secondly, the lack of a State vision in a strategic area such as education. Only in this way is it understood that today we are pushing for the death of the seventh school law of democracy and, in a certain way, we are beginning de facto the processing of the eighth law. That is, on average, this Congress has passed an educational law every five years, an unusual fact in those states that have a functioning education system. And it is that Lomce sums up very well what was the last legislature: a legislature marked by the lack of dialogue, the imposition, the roll, the lack of consensus and agreements. And of course it's out of those dusts, these muds. And all of this, given that from Catalonia we understood simply and plainly that it was a bad law, and that it also attacked frontally the jurisdictional framework of the Generalitat de Catalunya in the field of education. In this regard, I will give a brief summary of the reasons why we have already opposed the processing of this law at the time. First, Lomce violates the principle of equal opportunities by producing early segregation; it allows the publication of rankings of educational institutions and favours the exclusion of students with difficulties. Just think about the fact that a system of revalidates is established with punitive effects rather than formative effects. Secondly, Lomce also establishes a classification of arbitrary subjects, with incongruent and anti-pedagogical academic management, which leaves out of the curriculum important areas essential for the integral formation of students, such as philosophy or music. Thirdly, the classification of the subjects to be taught in the primary, secondary and baccalaureate stages into three blocks of different subjects, and the expectation of carrying out evaluations at the end of each stage, also has a clear impact on the autonomous competences on the establishment of the educational curriculum. Fourthly, Lomce introduces a change in the model of access to the different stages of education. Students will only be able to move from one stage to the next and from high school to university after passing final evaluations of each stage. This change again affects the autonomous competences, as it eliminates or omits any involvement of the Autonomous Communities in the conduct of such tests. At the same time, it demonstrates a lack of appreciation for the competence of teachers and their ability to assess students. Finally, from the point of view of the official languages of education, Lomce introduces a new regulation of its vehicle use, denies the linguistic diversity of the autonomous communities with their own language, as is the case with Catalonia, and attacks the model of linguistic immersion that guarantees the knowledge of the Castilian and Catalan at the end of the training, and that has been fundamental for social cohesion and coexistence. In turn, it establishes a new hierarchical control of the State over the autonomous communities not provided for in the Constitution, which in fact contradicts it, by providing for a procedure by which the central administration can decide on linguistic issues the payment of up to 6,000 euros per student in private school by the autonomous education administration. In summary, the law violates the political and economic autonomy recognized to the Autonomous Communities, invades the competences assumed by the Generalitat of Catalonia in the field of education and own language, and ultimately violates the linguistic regime of education in Catalonia resulting from article 35 of its Statute of Autonomy. If we add to all this that Lomce turned its back on the groups in this House, on the educational community, without the necessary consensus with the autonomous communities, and with clear political and ideological intention, no one has to be surprised that we are now supporting this bill. However, we want to make it very clear that this proposal does not entirely satisfy us with regard to what was signed in 2013, and in this regard, in the course of the amendments, we will push for a number of changes so that Royal Decree 591/2014 is also repealed, and those rules for the development of the law that are contrary to the principles stated, and in accordance with which we support its suspension and repeal. In other words, we are going to ask for the mechanism to be abolished directly so that if the annual programming of the autonomous administration does not supposedly guarantee, and at the discretion of the ministry, a reasonable offer of Spanish language, the Ministry of Education will assume the costs of schooling of pupils in private schools, and then pass the bill to the relevant autonomous community. In Catalonia, which is clear to you, the learning of the Spanish is guaranteed, as all the studies known in this regard show, and we do not accept that the opposite should be maintained. We are also going to argue that the eighth law on education which will have to be dealt with does not violate Catalonia's competence in the field of education or with regard to linguistic immersion. This new law can represent a magnificent opportunity to talk about a pact for education, and that once and for all education ceases to be a bold weapon among the big parties, and the processing of it can count on broad consensus not only of the educational community, but also of a broad political majority. All this is possible if there is will and height of sight, as happened in Catalonia with the approval of the Lley d'Educació, with the model of linguistic immersion included, which in 2009 had a very broad support between government and opposition. In fact, this law was passed with the Socialist Party in the government and with Convergence in the opposition, a law that was made from consensus and that in many respects can serve as a basis for this new law. For all that has been said, the Catalan Parliamentary Group is in favour of the processing of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u55	Thank you, sir. Postius. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u56	Madam President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, friends and friends of the educational community, a first observation: it is very good that we talk about education, even better that we hear about education. In my intervention, I will start with evidence. For our group, all education is a choice. What do you want to transmit? What are the dominant values and what are the important knowledge? Any educational action is a political choice, and as such it is subjected to the same historical vavenes as all the decisions that make up the social model and the chosen territorial model. I say nothing new if I insist that the Spanish education system has historically been a battlefield. Reforms and counter-reforms mark an absolute record in European legislation, and clearly point to the inability to reach agreements between the different political forces, with the worsening of their secular backwardness, the Franco dictatorship and their remorse, in the form of a double network of public and concerted schools supported with public funds, the latter without distinguishing between those that make a public service from those that do not, and unfortunately the little educational investment before and now. It is not surprising that educational laws are always made without economic memory, and all that is said is a huge slab from which the educational system has not recovered. The Spanish school system has been based on four major organic laws: the Organic Law on University Reform, LRU, 1982; the Organic Law on the Law of Education, LODE, 1985; the Organic Law on the General Ordination of the Educational System, Logse, 1990; and the Organic Law on Participation, Evaluation and Government of Teaching Centres, Lopeg, 1995. A rosary of contradictory laws has subsequently been added to it. The Organic Law on the Quality of Education of 2002 was a non-state law being replaced by the Organic Law on Education, LOE, 2006. And why not, to make it worse, the last legislature, in 2013, was replaced by the previous one by the Organic Law for the Improvement of the Quality of Education. In general, the enormous waves that have suffered from education in Spain, as a result of educational reform, have been justified in the search for greater efficiency. This legislative avalanche, in many contradictory cases, has caused the opposite effect: a permanent crisis that has turned into continuous criticism, unable to look for real alternatives. As a teacher for more than thirty years, I have suffered from this situation of teaching in Spain. The adoption of Organic Law 8/2013 of 9 November, aimed at improving the quality of education only with the votes of the parliamentary group supporting the Government, was a huge mistake that demonstrated the Government's lack of consensus at the moment. Without it, the sustainability of reform and the stability of the system was and is null and void. The elections last December 20 have found that the exclusive majority that served to support the law has been volatilized, with the majority in Congress today being the political forces that opposed and that carried in their programs the repeal of the law. The start of the implementation of the Lomce that was launched in 2014-2015 has brought with it a multitude of variables and drawbacks both because of the ineffectiveness of the law itself and because of the uneven manner in which it has been carried out in the autonomous communities. The Ministry's haste to impose this law, accelerating the timetable for its implementation without the support of the majority of the educational community and against the majority of the autonomous communities, is generating, generating and will continue to cause enormous problems in its implementation: Problems in educational administrations to adapt their regulations, leading to confusion and disorganization in the centers. Problems for the student, who is suffering the consequences of this disorder. Problems for families, who live with concern and uncertainty the education of their children and, fundamentally, problems for teachers, who have to apply changes in educational regulations without time to assume and prepare them. [[The Lord]] The data provided by the studies carried out to date on the implementation of Lomce at the end of the 2014-2015 course reveal that in each autonomous community the situation is different. In the implementation courses of both Primary, 1st, 3rd and 5th, and 1st basic FP, in many cases the course began without the required regulations or either approved at the last moment without time to know and prepare it properly. There are autonomous communities with new normative developments, others with the old ones, in others the two coexist, and even situations have occurred as chaotic as implanting a Lomce course but using the material of the previous curriculum. With regard to the individualized primary 3rd test, which was presented as a fundamental pillar for improving the education system, it has also had an uneven start. If the regulations for carrying out this external evaluation are deepened, a large number of variables are again observed depending on each autonomous community. In Andalusia and Asturias it has not been carried out, in Catalonia the own model of evaluation is maintained, in the Canary Islands and Euskadi it has been carried out on a census basis but with multiple casuistics both in the evaluated competences and in the application of the tests. One example of this is that in some territories they are applied by external faculty, in others by faculty of the center that does not teach class to the evaluated group, in others it is the teacher of the group that applies it. With this scenario it is difficult to draw reliable conclusions as to the validity and effectiveness of these tests. In the course 2015-2016 the implementation of the 1st and 3rd ESO and 1st Baccalaureate without normative development has begun, so everything leads us to the conclusion that this current course, and even more if the revalidation is applied, will be even more problematic than the past. In view of the situation we have explained with disconcertingness, it is necessary with the greatest urgency that this law be repealed in order to prevent evils greater than those described and to open up a reflection in order to recompose the educational system, a reflection that must be respectful of the competences of the autonomous communities, especially those that have existing laws, such as Catalonia; a regulation that can be accepted by the majority without ideological pressure, abandoning obsessions against the Catalan language, directing and focusing all efforts on the real needs of an educational system that must respect the ideological plurality, the existence of different nations such as Catalonia and in which the commitment to the quality of education goes hand in hand with equity. For all this, the proposal for a law proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not enough in our view. It is shameful and can not be understood in any way that in fact we are only proposed to suspend the timetable for its implementation, maintaining what has been done wrong and which continues to harm the whole educational system. There is a sufficient majority in this House to repeal the Lomce here and now, to make us consistent with the electoral promise, in fact, with the electoral contract by which we are here and are deputies and deputies. You, with this motion for a law, go against your agenda and, if there is little, repealing it is mandatory because all those who agreed at the time, we must do so, all the parliamentary forces that the last legislature on July 17, 2013 we signed for this objective. Here are the signatures, also the signatures of Mr. Rubalcaba, the predecessor of Pedro Sánchez. Is your word and signature useless? If the word is not fulfilled, what confidence can you ask this House for in the future? Why don't you join the majority? They count well because recently they are not given too well arithmetic. Do not exclude or exclude. This is not the way of change and, if they do not follow it or pursue it, others will have to take the testimony and in this plenary ask plainly and plainly for the repeal. You will have our vote in disbelief, you will win the vote, but by leaving half what should be done completely, you will not possibly have fulfilled by looking at Citizens more than your constituents. A Catalan poet said that who loses his origins loses his identity. Whoever loses his origins, loses his identity. Let him look at it, they're still in time. They neither convince us nor will they have convinced an educational community that expected more, much more. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u57	Thank you, Mr. Olòriz. I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pride for me to speak in this House about education because I think it is at the heart of the political, social and economic programme representing Citizens and I would say it is for three main reasons. Firstly, because education is the basis for equal opportunities. With divergent treatment that discriminates against people, students, students and people because of their socio-economic origin, we will not be able to have the society we want. Secondly, education is essential for us too because it is the basis of our economic model. We always talk about changing the economic model, of reforming our economy. Education is the heart of the knowledge economy, the only one that will allow us to maintain our welfare state in the future. Human capital is the essence of economic growth and development in countries. Thirdly, education is essential, he said, because it is the key to a healthy democracy. Only with good education will we have critical people and full citizens who think independently, dialogue and improve our democracy. Education is therefore the cornerstone of any sensible project for a country. In short, education is the basis of our future; however, in Spain we have encountered quite a few problems in recent years. So far, education has been reformed seven times since the advent of democracy, not one of the laws has been in force for more than six years and none has had the consensus of the main parties in this House. Education, ladies and gentlemen, is excessively politicized in this country. Traditional parties have used it as a bold weapon, as a weapon of confrontation rather than as a building weapon, and the underlying problems have remained unchanged. Let me mention some of those problems to you. Probably the priority problem is the huge school failure. We continue to have the highest school failure in the European Union. One in five students continues to drop out of school and the vast majority never reconnect. In fact, the queues of unemployment are full of students who have not finished their education. Spain, moreover, occupies a mediocre position in all international agencies and evaluations, far below what we would be touched by our purchasing power. We have less knowledge in science, in reading comprehension and in mathematics than the countries of our environment, we have very few excellent students and many lag behind. We fail in the two main objectives of education: equity and efficiency. In Spain, repetition is used too often. One in three students has repeated their course before reaching the age of fifteen and that absorbs 8% of our budget in education and further aggravates classroom problems. The average repetition in OECD countries is much lower than we have. In Spain, socio-economic status continues to be rewarded and meritocracy continues to be undervalued. Countries in our environment have fewer inequalities in education and allow easier access to public education. In Spain we have a huge problem of obstacles to equal opportunities due to the enormous cost of school materials. Each Spanish family spends approximately 1,200 euros a year on school materials. In Spain, too, we do not have effective plans to treat students with different special needs, but let me just stop for a second and talk about something that is probably the most important: teachers. It is the key factor in teaching. Above the technological resources, above the size of the classrooms, teachers are the ones who must lead the educational change in our country. However, only 8% of our teachers believe that their work is valued by society and the majority have insufficient support to carry out their work. Let me therefore send a message of appreciation from this House to the teachers, who are working increasingly with fewer resources and doing an essential job for our country. [[Applauds]] We have talked about the problems and now let me tell you what the Citizens' proposal is to change the situation. Firstly - and most importantly - we need to talk about a big cross-cutting agreement. In education, although some seem to have more interest in finding differences than similarities, there are some significant spaces for consensus. Citizens have proposed in the Education Committee the creation of a parliamentary committee with the aim of achieving a national pact for education. We can get to work now, we don't need a government to start, we can do it now from this House. We can talk, we can dialogue, we can try to find consensus; let's not keep our arms crossed, criticizing the problems of always. That compact would have to be based on three main issues, although there are some others. The priority, as I said, is teachers. We have been talking from the beginning about creating a teaching MIR, a MIR that is worthy of teachers' careers, that allows them to have a projection, an academic progression and access to good training. We have also talked about early childhood education, from 0 to 3, which is absolutely key. A euro invested in the early years of education is infinitely more profitable than a euro invested later. And we've talked about a lot of other things. To finish, let me tell you that in Citizens we are in favor of stopping throwing to the sides. We want to move forward. We want to abandon once and for all the rhetoric of confrontation. We don't think it's any use stopping, abrogating and going back. We do not believe that the previous laws have offered solutions to these problems that I have just mentioned. What has inspired the spirit of our agreement with the Socialist Party - this law was introduced before that agreement - is that there are problems with the Lomce and it has to change, but the solution is not to return to the LOE or Zapatero's law. The solution is to sit at a table and find answers to those problems that we have talked about. I would like the old parties to discuss with the same vehemence that they talk about citizenship or religion - very important issues - about how to improve the quality of teaching in mathematics, the creativity of our students and the quality of our teachers. That is why we shall abstain in this vote. To conclude, I simply wanted to make a small quote from Kennedy: Education is the key to the future, the key to man's destiny and his ability to act in a better world. Let us live up to the times, for equality, for progress and for democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mrs Belarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the final text of the Organic Law for the Improvement of Educational Quality was adopted in this House on 28 November 2013. The People's Parliamentary Group voted alone in the face of the unanimous rejection of all other parliamentary groups. That text did not include any of the amendments or contributions of the rest of the forces. On that day, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, not only did they listen deafly to the rest of the political forces, they also disheartened the unanimous cry of society and the educational community. They drafted a law that contradicted all knowledge derived from educational systems in other countries, as well as research into educational practice. You passed an educational law of an ideological nature that prompted the rejection of society as a whole, both in the streets and in institutions. Even before the adoption of the Act, all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the People's Parliamentary Group, together with the main unions and representatives of the student and the families have already signed a commitment to its repeal. It is a law that was already born doomed to failure. We now find ourselves, just two years later, having to fulfil that commitment for the irresponsibility of a Government still in office; the commitment to repeal a law that should never have been passed. In democracy, votes cannot be used as a blank cheque and State issues such as education should never be addressed without dialogue with the educational community. For society in general and for whom we are professionals in the world of education, it has been difficult to understand how a government that claims to bet on the quality of education is the same that carries out the greatest cut in education in our country in all history. The sad reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that in a single legislature investment in education has fallen back to a decade ago. How can the quality of education be improved when fewer teachers are hired and the number of pupils per classroom is increased? His Government had asked the teachers in our country to teach better by paying them less and forcing them to work more hours, had asked the student to learn more with fewer scholarships and had burdened families with all the cost of educating their children. Is this how the People's Party understands improving the quality of education? You pretend to make us believe that the best way to teach is not to teach and that the best way to learn is not to learn. Perhaps the best way for you to govern is for you to stop ruling at once and, following your own logic, we are fully convinced that in order for this law to be implemented satisfactorily, the best solution is not to be implemented. There are many reasons to oppose this law, to vote in favour of its implementation being paralyzed. Many of these reasons were repeated by both the student and the educational community and the parents' associations, but since then they did not want to listen, I will repeat them today. These are some of the conclusions of the Seville Forum, which were published in the manifesto For another educational policy, signed by a group of academics and intellectuals from all over Spain and which has broad support from the educational community. This manifesto denounces the fact that Lomce presents an eminently utilitarian approach to education. It understands education as the engine that promotes the competitiveness of the economy and thus prioritizes technical content over any content or studies of humanities. However, Aristotle already said that educating the mind without educating the heart is not educating at all. With his educational model, we would have to forget phrases like this, as well as the great teacher who pronounced it. Philosophy, art and critical thinking are found to be useless in a market society. Others, on the other hand, think, like Nuccio Orden, that there are knowledge that they are ends in themselves and that precisely because of their free and selfless nature they play a fundamental role in the development of humanity. In addition, its law limits the democratic participation of students and families in schools and makes school councils a mere consultative body. His law removes Education for Citizenship from the curriculum to include Religion. Its law reduces the responsibility of the public authorities and puts them at the same level as the power to regulate and finance private actors. Its law segregates students according to their socio-economic status and shields sex-segregated education. For all these reasons, our position is clear: we are firmly committed to the complete, immediate and unequivocal repeal of the Lomce. [[Applauds]] To this end, we believe that it is essential to initiate a process of collective elaboration of a new law on education involving the educational community and that, once and for all, an open and sincere dialogue be established with the whole of the citizenry. We are clear that the only way to provide stability to our education system is to rely on the education professionals working in it. Only in this way can we end this wave of approval and repeal of educational laws, which have been up to seven in thirty-eight years of democracy, two of which never even came to pass. In this regard, we trust that the Socialist Party will definitely bet on setting up with us a government of change in our country to enable this dialogue to begin and to bet on a new law of progressive education, which will give the necessary political and budgetary stability to the education system of our country. As you see and as the citizens' rapporteur has already said, this position is much closer between Podemos and the Socialist Party than with the citizens' party; we hope you will remember that. [[Applauds]] Our position in this debate cannot be other than to vote in favour of this initiative in view of the imminent need to paralyse the Lomce. Today we have an opportunity that we must not let go, an opportunity to stop the most controversial measures that have been the blackest legislature of the People's Party. However, it is essential that this paralysis is only the first step towards the definitive repeal of the Lomce. We are clear that the worst of Lomce is yet to come. The external evaluations and the rankings of centers, as well as the itineraries in the fourth of the ESO are only the spearhead of a net neoliberal educational model. A model that seeks to make public schools compete with private schools and seeks to turn what is a fundamental right into a business of a few. External evaluations condition what is taught to students and, in this sense, are a powerful educational policy tool, they are a method for selecting people and not for evaluating content, which is what the educational system should be for. Only a step beyond the external evaluations are the rankings of centres, something that most European Union countries have already rejected on numerous occasions, especially because these rankings contribute to an illegitimate comparison between those schools that cater to students who are socially disadvantaged and have greater difficulties, which are always unfairly damaged in them. End-of-stage evaluations place distrust in the work of teachers and their ability to promote and evaluate learning. In addition to this, they generate outsourcing routes that expel students with more needs from the education system, requiring them to re-demonstrate that they have learned contents for which they have already been evaluated. The differentiated itineraries at the end of the compulsory education proposed by Lomce make the education system a catalyst of inequality, creating dead ends for students with more problems. Early selection on the basis of academic performance condemns socially disadvantaged students to pursue itineraries with less training and recognition. In addition, through the programs of improvement of learning and performance, known as Pemar, and the basic FP, Lomce creates a system of selection that guides the students with less qualifications towards a formation of low qualification, which generates cheap and precarious work, apparently the one that most likes the People's Party. This perverts the sense of education that, as Nelson Mandela well defined, is the one that allows the son of a farmer to become the president of a great nation. [[Applauds]] In addition, the elimination of selectivity eliminates the only mechanism that would at least guarantee equal access to public universities. In conclusion, I would like to say that Podemos is going to fight for an education, as Pablo Freire said, that teaches us to think and not for an education that teaches us to obey. That is why today we want to thank all those who have not stopped thinking, working and disobeying during these years; teachers, teachers and counsellors, educators and educators who have left behind in recent years to maintain the quality of our educational system, who have prepared breakfasts and brought clothes to schools for their students at risk of exclusion, who have worked hundreds of hours more to supply hundreds less teachers. From here, our most sincere thanks. Thanks to the whole educational community and the hundreds of thousands of people who have defended quality public education on the streets. Not only has the present of many children, adolescents and families been broken in recent years, but the future of a whole country, because a more unequal country is a worse country and because, as we have so many times shouted on the street and in the squares, the education of our children is not sold, it is defended. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Belarra. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that my group had the hope that the sanctity and common sense would prevail in you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, before re-submitting Spanish society to a debate of confrontation in the field of education. It is clear that for you the good intentions expressed in order to achieve a pact for education have been forgotten from the very moment you have decided to place this matter at the centre of the political confrontation. It gives us some sadness because, after several months since the last elections, the conclusion is clear: You have neither understood nor learned anything. From here I tell you that if you intend to face education in Spain with us you will not count. This parliamentary group continues to stand up for the offer it made to the whole of Spanish society, to political parties, to the educational community: the need to achieve, once and for all, a great pact for education. We are fully aware that the Spaniards cannot continue to be subjected to the vagaries and uncertainties driven by those who believe they possess absolute truth. We are far from that position. That is why you cannot give us lessons either in democratic respect or in the search for agreements, because whenever we have assumed governmental responsibilities we have valued what previous governments have provided, even though they are of different signs and do not agree with some of their initiatives. Let me get my story back. From 1996 to 2000, the Government of the People's Party applied the law in force at that time, the Logse, yet it has not adopted it in its day and having serious doubts as to its effectiveness. Only an attempt was made to strengthen the presence of the Humanities in the educational system, but you, who should have been the cultural allies in this matter, opposed it head-on. And now you're worried about philosophy, Mr. Simancas? The Government of the People's Party adopted the Organic Education Quality Act in 2002, after verifying the ineffectiveness of the Logse. But you paralyzed her, didn't give her the slightest chance. They then addressed the development of the LOE, a fundamental re-edition of the bad Logse, which, two years after its adoption, produced early dropout rates of more than twice the European Union. That is why, in the past legislature, we assume the responsibility of changing the educational model. Spain could not maintain one more day an education that could not shorten the gap that separated us from Europe in early educational abandonment, which condemned our young people to the absolutest of failures, which did not offer them the slightest opportunity. And we have done so among all, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the whole educational community, to the management of the autonomous communities, calling for enormous efforts in four truly complicated years. We have also done so by respecting those measures that we consider effective in improving our system, because Lomce, ladies and gentlemen, not only respected much of the Organic Law on Socialist Education, but incorporated more than 70% of the educational proposals of the social and political pact for education promoted by Socialist Minister Gabilondo. Are they, by the way, referring to these measures when they speak of hasty, confusing or segregating measures? Ladies and gentlemen, you are totally wrong. You go against the rest of the educational community, even the autonomous communities. They intend to use them as a ram against the government, but as long as you speak out, they agree. Last August, they agreed with the Government on seven plans for the improvement of the education system, in languages, in new technologies, in teaching, in professional action and in employability. Haven't you been told, Your Honor? No, ladies and gentlemen, we're not like you. It is a pity that in this process of progress, of improvement, we have not had the slightest help from you. Its only objective was from the very beginning to paralyze the law, to prevent its application as it were. Therefore, they did not wait for the parliamentary debate to announce that at the slightest opportunity they would repeal the law. That is why 80% of the amendments tabled were deleted. They presented no alternative, Your Honor, they have no alternative, because the only one they know is the one that has led the Spanish educational system to the most absolute of failures. [[Applauds]] You cannot raise this motion for a law in the House and do not value the consequences, because it has them. So soon, if you have a certain degree of responsibility and a hypothetical desire to reach a great deal of agreement, I must tell you that actions like those of today do not only favour it, but make it difficult. But let us suppose that this great agreement has remained, like others, already banished from their expectations. At least I understand that you will have appreciated the consequences that an alleged paralysis of the Lomce could produce. Because if you remove the Lomce immediately, there's a vacuum and the school can't work. We don't say that, ladies and gentlemen. These are the words of Mr Álvarez Areces, spokesman for the education of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Senate. These are also the conclusions reached by teachers'unions, parents and centre holders. This is the reality that you cannot or dare to explain. Or do you feel able to explain to the families whose children attend 1st baccalaureate school that next year, on a whim of your own, exclusively yours, you will take a completely different curriculum, where there will be no correlation between the subjects, some will disappear and others will be new and will require contents imparted in previous years? Have you explained that this situation can frustrate your expectations of access to university? Have they assessed the situation of the 18,000 educational centres in which Lomce is being implemented? Have you evaluated the situation of the faculty that has been preparing for organizational and curriculum changes? All this, not to mention the loss of economic resources that would entail their repeal. You, who are so concerned about funding, should take note. Ladies and gentlemen, until last December the Autonomous Communities had received 168 million for the implementation of the Lomce. Another 368 million will be received this year. Most of them are from the European Social Fund. Its small whim would mean the loss of EUR 615 million from Europe. No more, no less. Do you not think that, at least, it would be wiser for us to sit down and talk and evaluate those measures of success that will improve students and correct those who do not meet their goals, rather than engage in meaningless debates? Ladies and gentlemen, we are not closed to change, we are closed to retrogression, and paralyzing the law and repealing it to go back to prescriptions of the past would be the worst sentence for the education system. By the way, the Revelation on which you base your intervention has not reached education, Mr.Siancas, however much it weighs you. Moreover, the Spanish education system is now better than four years ago. This government inherited an early drop-out rate of more than 26%, today we are at 19.97 %, six points below. For the first time early school leaving has fallen by 20% in our country. But this is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, we have to keep moving forward. We want to achieve a great pact for education and we firmly believe in it. We will work tirelessly to reach the agreement because above all we care about people. They are the basis of the education system and we owe them. We owe it to the teachers, so we must strengthen their position as the center of the education system, developing a regulatory framework for the teaching function, changing the access system, designing a real career, strengthening their training throughout life, defending their authority in the exercise of their function. Families too, we owe them a fundamental right: freedom. The freedom to choose education and the centre for their children; that freedom, which is a guarantee of quality and which bothers them so much. We already know that your bet is that unique and uniform thought. The Education Adviser of Castilla-La Mancha has defined this very well. In this region - he said - education has only one color, the red, that of socialists. Was this what you meant when you were talking about ideology in education? We owe it to the students, offering them a quality education system that guarantees the same equality of opportunity, to all, regardless of where they live and the centre to which they come, to train them in new demands, in languages, in new technologies; a system that does not abandon anyone on the road, because everyone has their concerns and skills and must be able to develop them. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not end up understanding that the Lomce was the end of the first and second tracks. We believe in a demanding system, yes, but at the same time inclusive and inclusive, that will help the most needy, that will respond to students with special educational needs, that will foster coexistence, solidarity and participation. We believe in a system in which each student finds his or her way, a path of success. That's what we've moved into society and it's worked. That is why the students, instead of leaving the system, have chosen to stay in the system. This is why vocational training has increased the number of enrolments by 30% and why dual vocational training has increased by 400 %. We also owe you a transparent system, Mr Simancas; yes, ladies and gentlemen. I do not yet understand their frontal opposition to evaluations, those evaluations which have 24 out of the 34 countries of the European Union and which make students improve the level of performance between 20% and 40%. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the initiative we are debating today has nothing to do with improving the education system. They do not disguise a decision that was already made, because this law has only one problem, which is not its law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an extraordinary opportunity. The citizens have placed us in it and we must take advantage of it. I ask you to reflect, to sit down and talk and that, once and for all, instead of practicing your burning land policy, we achieve a great deal of agreement in education. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Moneo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u64	We turn to item III of the agenda, which is the one on non-law proposals, and we start with that of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left on the revision of the Hydrological Plan of the Ebro Basin. For the presentation of the initiative and the defence of the amendment tabled, Mr Eritja has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 8 January, the current government itself decided to adopt in the Council of Ministers twelve hydrological plans for the second planning cycle 2015-2021, as revised and updated in Royal Decree 1/2016 of 8 January, and published on 19 January in the BOE; a government in office that then had no objection to taking that decision. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u67	This approval, as has been customary throughout the process of implementing the European Water Framework Directive, is a major delay in the plans required by the European Commission. By way of example, the European Court of Justice already condemned Spain in 2012 for not having approved the river basin plans within the deadline, which was by then the year 2009. We're talking three years late. It was a mandatory framework directive for all Member States that required the revision and updating of hydrological plans to a new water management model that would not only meet the increasing demand for the resource for its uses and exploitation, but also to reconcile these uses - and this is where it really brings new elements - with the particular need of the environment and the conservation of water bodies. June 2, 2015... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u68	Wait a minute, Mr. Eritja. Quiet, please. All these straps, being all up talking to each other... A little respect for the one who has the floor in the rostrum. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u69	On 2 June 2015, in the Committee on Petitions of the European Commission, Jorge Rodríguez Romero, a member of the European Union's Environment Committee responsible for evaluating basin plans, notes that these plans contain implementation gaps for which improvement recommendations are included and concludes by summarising that the hydrological plans denote an incomplete integration of the principles and objectives of the framework directive in the management of water bodies in Spain. In fact, the Commission has come to recognize that the new plans do not represent significant changes to the old plans and calls for answers to thirty-five questions on how to improve before approving the new plans. Its recommendations highlight, for example, the importance of the precautionary principle in decision-making on the construction of new infrastructure. We are talking, for example, about dams, which are liable to cause the deterioration of water bodies and which must be justified in accordance with the conditions of the framework directive. One of the requirements is to ensure ecological flows especially to meet specific needs, especially those protected natural areas that depend primarily on water, such as wetlands or deltas. This is precisely the case of the Ebro Delta, a unique space of high ecological value; in fact, it is the third largest delta in the Mediterranean, after the deltas of the Rhône and Nile, with an extension of 320 square kilometers. It has almost all the environmental protection figures that exist: Wet area of international importance of the Ramsar Convention, ZEPA zone, LIC zone within the Natura 2000 network and in 2013, Biosphere Reserve by Unesco. It's a big, really protected space. Even so, the newly approved Hydrological Plan of the Ebro basin blatantly disregards the protection needs of this fragile space by not guaranteeing the flow requirements and the provision of sediments set out in the tenth additional provision of the National Hydrological Plan, which points to the need for an ecological flow of between 159 and 223 cubic meters per second. In fact, the Ebro Hydrological Plan ends up fixing the ecological flow in the final stretch of the Ebro at only 100 cubic meters per second; clearly insufficient contributions that involve the disappearance of the delta in the short and medium term. It also mortgages 80% of Ebro's water resources to ensure a strategic reserve of water for its exploitation upstream with the creation of forty new reservoirs and the extension of 465,000 hectares of new irrigation. Obviously, the pressure exerted by such exploitation of water resources on the river ecosystem is not only unsustainable, but above all worrisomely unsustainable. I do not know exactly how these measures can be implemented. These proposals completely disregard the objectives of the framework directive as this overexploitation is detrimental to environmental flows and condemn to disappearance wetlands such as the Ebro Delta itself when the framework directive clearly states that environmental flows are prior to and must be a restriction on other uses since, we repeat, the objective of the framework directive is to ensure the good state of the water bodies. The guidelines of the directive have been repeatedly disregarded despite the recommendations of the European Commission itself and the requests of the territory; neglected requests which in the case of Catalonia have activated an unprecedented process of social mobilization, led by various social movements and which have been supported not only by the institutions and political organizations of the territory, but also by the Government of the Generalitat itself, which has recently incorporated in the allegations presented to the basin plan the proposal for ecological flows that the Commission has drawn up for the Sustainability of the Terres de l'Ebre. It is a mobilization that continues to be active today, as demonstrated last February 7 in the population of Amposta, where the assistance and representation of Catalan civil society was massive. These requests specify that the adoption of such a basin plan is a clear violation of various European Directives on the protection of protected areas, such as the European Water, Habitat and Birds Directive itself, which in no case have been taken into account when planning. In addition, the international recognition of the Ebro Delta, as we have been repeating, is one of the main strategic European wetlands in the migratory movements of birds. But it also violates the Water Framework Directive itself with technical shortcomings such as the identification and incorrect delimitation of water bodies, the lack of inclusion of certain mandatory indicators for the measurement of the ecological status of these bodies; indicators that do not precisely allow a good diagnosis to be made in their state and therefore do not allow the implementation of proper management. In short, the approved Hydrological Plan continues to respond more to a traditional planning model, focusing more on the quantitative management of resources and the development of infrastructures linked to the satisfaction of demands for use, than to the new comprehensive management model proposed by the Water Framework Directive. But, as the European Commission has already pointed out, if progress is insufficient and there is no credible commitment to fill the identified gaps, the Commission will consider appropriate actions to ensure the correct implementation of the framework directive. In fact, the loss of European funds, as well as sanctions for non-compliance with the 2014-2020 partnership agreements on hydrological plans and tariff policies, would be a major economic loss for water users. Is this the management model that pursues the new Ebro Hydrological Plan? If so, and contrary to what the framework directive seeks, it will inevitably encourage social confrontation between communities of regents and environmentalists, as well as between territories. Maybe this is what you're trying to do. In fact, since Catalonia we have long perceived a clear political intention in this regard. Perhaps from Catalonia we will have to wait until the new Catalan Republic can treat water management as a strategic and state management and take advantage, as it cannot otherwise be, of the constituent moment and the possible new legal framework on international waters to define a new hydrological plan allowing for the application of the criteria of comprehensive management, defence and territorial balance as set out in the European directives.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u70	I beg you to conclude, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u71	For this reason, the parliamentary groups of Esquerra Republicana and Democrácia i Llibertat call on the Congress of Deputies to recognize as insufficient the minimum ecological flows fixed for the final stretch of the Ebro river and, therefore, to urge the Spanish Government to review the hydrological plan of the Ebro basin and to adapt the ecological flows regime by increasing them in order to achieve the objectives set by the Water Framework Directive.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u72	Mr. Eritja, please finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u73	With regard to the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups, we do not share the content of those tabled by the Socialist, Citizens and Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea groups, although we want to show that we share the substance and philosophy of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea's proposal by urging the full and direct participation of citizens in the process of revising the Ebro Basin Plan. In fact, our proposal arises precisely from a long participatory process and the direct involvement of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u74	Thank you, Mr. Eritja. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bel intervenes, first of all, by the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u75	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group has indeed tabled an amendment together with the Parliamentary Group on the Republican Left. We presented a similar initiative with similar objectives and we understood that it was appropriate to present this joint amendment. Why do we put forward an initiative on this matter? Because the hydrological plan for the Ebro basin, recently approved by the government in office, as has been said, clearly shows an insufficiency in ecological flows. The previous one showed it; but, for you to have an idea, I give you some figures. The hydrological plan of the Ebro basin approved in 1999 and in force until a few months ago, until about two years ago when the first cycle of hydrological planning of the Ebro was approved with the current National Hydrological Plan, contemplated 100 cubic meters per second during every month at the Tortosa drilling station. This plan that we approved seventeen years later, you know what flow is behaving? For six months a year, 80 cubic metres per second, 20% more; and only for two months a year, more than 100 cubic metres per second. It is an absolutely insufficient amount, which does not comply with the framework directives, either the Water Framework Directive, the Birds Directive or the Habitats Directive. In any case, it is an absolutely inadequate flow and this has been expressed by a large part of the parliamentary groups that are present in this House today. What does our amendment seek? It is very easy to note that these flows are insufficient and to urge the Government, the Government in office, which has approved them, to modify these ecological flows by increasing them and fixing them around the positions established by the Commission for the Sustainability of the Terres de l'Ebre, where there is a confluence of administrations, technicians and civil society, establishing flows that will guarantee the survival of the delta. And I say the survival of the delta because these days I have read and heard that what is wanted is water for Catalonia. Make no mistake, the Ebro Delta is not a problem of Les Terres de l'Ebre, the Ebro Delta is not only a problem of Catalonia, the Ebro Delta is also a problem and an issue that affects the Spanish State and the whole of the European Union. Therefore, the only thing we ask is a position of more water for the Ebro Delta, and this is absolutely compatible with the current uses of irrigation, industrial and domestic that the Ebro River has. Obviously, there will have to be a review of the reserves for some waterings that are not even planned today. Only with these unplanned irrigation reserves could we reach these ecological flows raised. Obviously, the amendments that have been tabled make the position of each of the parliamentary groups predictable. I am grateful for the amendment tabled by the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Group, which is on the line. It has already been explained that it is not incorporated so that the transactional is not vetoed, but in any case we agree. We regret the position of the Socialist Group, which is expressed in some terms in the Terres de l'Ebre and in Catalonia and in other terms here in the House, which is where it is being debated. In any case, I'll make you one last appeal. If we do not correct these absolutely inadequate ecological flows, we will be ashamed that it is the European Union that makes us rectify them. Let us therefore exercise sovereignty and rectify what, if not, the European Union is going to rectify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u76	Thank you, Mr. Bel. I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cantó.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Squerra Republicana is presenting us with a proposal proposing a revision of the Ebro Hydrological Plan which we do not like and to which we have tabled an amendment, which - I have been told - was afraid that it would not be accepted. I was afraid that it would not be accepted, although I could not speak to Mr Tardà and Mr Homs, for three fundamental reasons. Firstly, because our amendment respects the law. You guys often -- excuse me -- aren't. Secondly, because it seeks to guarantee the equality of all Spaniards, contrary to what you claim. Thirdly, because it takes into account something very important for us and it seems that the proposing groups are much less interested in Europe. Today we are talking in this plenary about two issues that we think are very important: water and financing. Problems are often created that are but symptoms of a disease that affects two fundamental pillars for us of democracy, of the State: equality, and solidarity. We believe that the proposal you are bringing here today, Mr de Esquerra Republicana, is wrong for two fundamental reasons. The first is purely procedural, since this hydrological plan has been processed in accordance with the European Water Directive, it has passed absolutely all the appropriate technical controls, as well as those of participation, and you could have made allegations. I must also say that if the European Commission were to issue a discordant approach, we could stand by the technicians and ensure that all their recommendations are complied with. But this proposal that you bring here today only meets political criteria and is used once again - again - a territorial and exclusive discourse for a cause of confrontation with the rest of the state. I will talk about our alternative, the amendment we have proposed to you. Mr de Esquerra Republicana, we want to ensure the availability of water as a resource throughout the territory and for all Spanish citizens and we also want to do so through technical criteria, within a sustainable environmental model. Great mistakes have been made in the past using the issue of water with political motivations, which has generated a great deal of frustration among our citizens and has come to face our communities. We believe it is necessary to coordinate the different hydrological plans in the basin and the forecast and conditions of transfer between them. These hypothetical surpluses will be guaranteed once the internal needs of each basin have been met. We also want to invest in the modernisation of irrigation, with energy saving and water saving as a priority, and we also want to facilitate the regulation of flows through infrastructures that mitigate growth. In addition, we must streamline aquifer management and introduce new technologies in water treatment, both the treatment and purification of waste water returned to rivers and the installation of viable desalinizers and the reuse of water in the recharge of aquifers, irrigation and industry. I repeat, Mr de Esquerra Republicana and Mr de Democrácia and Mr Llibertat, it is necessary to deal with this issue with the responsibility it deserves. Less political criteria and more technical criteria. We want to take care of the Ebro Delta. For now we believe that this hydrological plan of the Ebro basin also does. Europe also watches over it, meets all the requirements, but, I see, we will be the first to demand changes if the ecological and agricultural wealth of the delta area is affected. As we have said before, water policies must be seen from a global perspective, covering the whole country and seeking the provision of a homogeneous and effective service for all Spanish citizens, regardless of where they live. For too long, the old policy you practice seeks confrontation, throws balloons out or seeks scapegoats before solving the problems we citizens have. That's why they don't count on us. That is why we will vote against your proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Singing. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the group I represent, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal tabled. As it seems that I will not have many opportunities to address you, Mr Rajoy, in this legislature as President of the Government, and even if you are, as you are accustomed to us, in an absent way, I will tell you something that I am sure - I hope so - that the guardian angel of Mr Fernández Díaz, Marcelo, will bring you to your ears. I am a Member of En Comú Pom on behalf of a territory usually forgotten by the governments, the Camp de Tarragona and the Terres de l'Ebre. I will not speak to you, Mr Rajoy, even if you are not, only cubic hectometers, aquifers or birds, but suffering with a human face. Our beautiful landscape coexists with the old chimneys of the nuclear power plants, has suffered the earthquakes of the Castor project, has the highest unemployment rates of Catalonia in Baix Penedès, Baix Camp, Tarragonès and Monsia. He lives with the anguish of a village, Flix, who has been humiliated over more than a century by the company Ercros, who now wants to leave with rositas and leave the contaminated muds to his people; with the crisis of blue fish and with relocations like that of the old Bayer, who has now made up his name and is called Covestro; with trains on a single track in the most important corridor of Spain, that of the Mediterranean, which remains almost paralyzed and without a clearly defined project; with constant faults for the lack of maintenance of ADIF in the railway lines of Mora, Reus or my dear Altafulla; with a N-340 collapsed, and which is the road of death, an AP-7 that must be free of tolls or the endless work of the A-27 to arrive from the port of Tarragona to Montblanc. But above all, Mr Rajoy - who is not - I want to talk to you about dignity, dignity of a territory that is full of non-compliance and good words. On February 7, 50,000 people protested in Amposta against the hydrological plan of the Ebro basin, 50,000 voices who claimed with irony that it would not end with their present or their future, arrivals from Catalonia and Spain, but mostly from Ebro and Tarragona. They summed up their claim in a phrase, which is what the Ebro represents for us: The laugh is life. And this hydrological plan of the Ebro basin that you, in the extension of a government in office, have approved represents the death of the delta; I repeat, Mr Cantó: it represents the death of the delta. As in the previous cycle, the Spanish hydrological plans, especially that of the Ebro, have not been implemented applying the basic concepts of the Water Framework Directive and continue the same scheme of the hydrological plan, because they amass a deep economic interest and are elaborated without full and active participation of citizens. We are faced with a fraud, a scientific fraud, as the professor of Ecology Narcís Prat would say, and it is because he does not take into account previous studies, he does not take into account environmental requirements and he does not take into account climate change; something of the cousins, Mr Rajoy. With the approval of the Cañete plan - I would say so - we are trying to generate social and territorial division - I repeat: social and territorial division, Mr Cantó -, showing that the interests of the agricultural sector are incompatible with the conservation of the natural environment and of the rivers. With the water concessions for this half a million future new hectares of irrigation a succulent business is being prepared, based on the free market of concessional rights, which the Government has legalized through successive reforms of the legal figure of the contracts of assignment and the regulations of transfers. With these legal reforms, what is being prepared is a new transgressive strategy of the PP. It seems that the plan was to start the river by the head, by the taulada, as they would say to Catalonia, and if there is anything left, for the mouth, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is to salinize the delta and end its crops and its ecosystem. In short, Mr Rajoy, it is an environmentally questionable plan for its effects on the wet areas of the Ebro basin and in particular on the final stretch of the delta, technically questioned by the European Commission for its collateral effects on the financing, technical and environmental viability of the new regulatory infrastructures. But it is not only that, Mr Rajoy, it is your policy that generates inequality and stress in people and now in the river, a river that is the dignity of a people, of its people, but also of those that we believe in the economic and ecological future of the delta, which is the heritage of all. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen of the people's bench, if you don't want to listen to us, you know what our whereabouts are. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Several Members of Parliament from Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, stood up, show a drawing representing a pipe made of a knot and a banner in which it is read: The whole sense of laughter is the death of the delta.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u80	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mrs Lucio has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Access to water and sanitation was recognized by the United Nations National Assembly as a human right in 2010. No one escapes that this good of nature is intimately linked to life and that access to it is defended as one's own life whenever there is a risk of losing it. Water and its management have always been the subject of major political, territorial and sectoral debates and has not always been used honestly to achieve the objectives, often uneven, of each territory or economic sector. But all the existing disjunctives so far have a new determinant that we must assume before returning to Cainite debates on water management. That factor is climate change, which already requires, and will do more in the future, adaptation policies to fight with the increasingly frequent and lasting drought periods. This will require, first of all, a thorough review of our patterns of development and productive economy towards a more sustainable model. In Spain there is a great deal of experience in the management of this resource. One of its most important historical contributions has been the introduction of management models based on the delimitation of river basins, which at present have proved to be the most effective in responding comprehensively to socio-economic and, therefore, territorial needs and also to ecological needs. The Water Framework Directive itself claims as one of the key elements to achieve its priority objective of protecting and restoring continental and coastal waters this unique and integrated management of river basins by natural geographical basins. This directive, the Water Framework Directive, also incorporates the principle of cost recovery, complementary to that of the polluter pays, and that of public participation in planning, monitoring and management control processes. There is a clear challenge, which is to combine the new management structures of the hydrographic demarcations, maintaining the unity of the basin as a principle, with the legitimate territorial interests, always seeking to satisfy the particular interest of the autonomous communities, as well as the global interest of the entire community and of the State to which the autonomous communities belong. In this sense, the governments of the autonomous communities must be permeable to this global reality of interdependence that marks the Water Framework Directive in a reality based on a water cycle that involves and affects everyone. If there is one thing that is clear in the directive, it is that the mouth of a river cannot be independent of either the head or the rest of the river's course, however far it may be in another autonomous community. In the case of the self-amended GNP that ERC is presenting for debate today, we consider, as reflected in the amendment that our group has tabled, that an examination of the forecasts of the Ebro Basin Hydrological Plan should be carried out since the full management of the entire basin, as the Water Framework Directive points out. We agree that ecological maintenance of the Ebro Delta is a basic indicator of the hydrological plan itself as a whole. The integral protection of this ecosystem must be achieved on the basis of a great social and political agreement, which is what the Socialists have proposed on numerous occasions. This great social and political agreement must count on all those involved in water management - users of the various classes of exploitation, professional organisations in the agricultural sector, entities defending environmental interests, consumers, managers - must ultimately be a big and participatory agreement. The satisfaction of this right to adequate and quality water will only be achieved if, instead of seeking spaces of separation and conflict, consensus is sought on the basis of negotiation. The Socialist Group has tried to agree on an amendment which sets out on the one hand the basic principles of the Water Framework Directive, which here have defended virtually all the speakers who have spoken and who are based on public participation in all matters relating to water, but also the need to understand that a river and its basin should be considered as a whole and that there is no river course if there is no headwater and that what happens in the Ebro Delta necessarily has to do with the management that is done throughout the course of the directive. As Heraclitus said, barely and only barely remains the channel, and we are the ones living in the channel who have to allow the flow to continue, understanding ourselves, remembering and improving what is there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. The Group of the European People's Party has only asked to speak at the time of the fixing of positions, so Mr Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to establish a position in relation to an Esquerra initiative that seeks a minority part of all those who have participated in a major and important process to determine the environmental flows of the Ebro River. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I have heard many things here, but some are inaccuracies or half truths. A question has to be asked. This Government has approved more than 25 watershed hydrological plans - even with other countries we share basin - and there has been no problem; the only problem is always in the Ebro Hydrological Plan. They're going to allow me to make some clarifications. It has been said here that there was no participation and Podemos has tabled an amendment to that effect. I have to say that 120 meetings have been held. The Confederation, the competent body, has met with more than 1,200 collectives; more than 6,000 allegations have been accepted; there are 5,100 writings in favour of the watershed hydrological plan and only one hundred are against it. It is good to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a watershed hydrological plan that collects investments for more than 2.5 billion euros, of which 1.1 billion are for environmental issues. Of course, Mr Ferran, it is a plan which seeks to transform hectares of dry land into water, but here it is intended to outline a kind of insolidity with Catalonia in relation to this plan when 170,000 hectares, Mr Ferran, are for Catalonia; almost 50% of the hectares that are being transformed are for Catalonia. It is a plan which, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the state of the water bodies, to the extent that 95% of the water bodies will be improved. The Ebro Basin Plan, ladies and gentlemen, increases the environmental flow by 30 points, but where all its arguments are finished and dismantled - it does not comply with the Water Directive, it does not comply with the legislation, the reports are not well done - it is with the judgment of the Supreme Court 50/35 of 15 December, at the request of an appeal from Catalonia, which once again crashes in the courts with the Ebro River. The judgment strongly endorses the reports that validate the watershed hydrological plan. It says it complies with the Water Directive, but not only that, but - most importantly - it supports the calculation of the environmental flows of the Ebro River. That's the reality as much as you want to tell something else here. And there is another more important issue. At the Water Council, which approved the Ebro River Basin Plan, there were 76 votes in favour and only 12 against. That's the reality, you want to see how you want the problem. This question, ladies and gentlemen, is not old. I have listened attentively to Esquerra and Mr Ferran and I have to tell them that their position seems to me to be profoundly inconclusive. It implies having a lack of knowledge of the river, which in you surprises me, unless I want to see some other intentionality, because the approach you formulate with the environmental flows you propose supposes to have Mequinenza empty six months a year, ladies and gentlemen; supposes that waters above the Ebro Delta neither La Rioja nor Navarra nor Castile and Lion neither the Basque Country nor Cantabria nor Aragon and neither La Mancha will be able to use the water resource. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are simply trying to do is to collapse the watering system in the Ebro river basin. Everyone here has mentioned his condition, also Mr Ferran, the spokesman for Podemos. The one who speaks to them is Aragonese and could also assert this condition. Specifically my childhood took place in a village in Los Monegros, of those hard ones, as Labordeta said. I've seen 50% of that town migrate to Catalonia until the watering came. I've seen schools open and I've seen people on the street, all thanks to watering, ladies and gentlemen. The watershed hydrological plan that is being debated here today aims to balance all interests, also those of the Ebro Delta - as I told you, 170,000 hectares - because the regents in the Ebro Delta have twice as much water as a regent in Aragon or Navarre. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has had the courage to make decisions, which are not easy in the water sector. I am now going to the Socialist Group's amendment, which confines me to that new wave that invades us to repeal all that has been approved by the People's Party. It basically says very little, ladies and gentlemen. It is an amendment that says absolutely nothing, because what is said here is fulfilled by the hydrological plan for the Ebro basin approved by the People's Party. You lack courage to support the People's Party today. Ladies and gentlemen, what you propose at the end has already happened. They have learned nothing at all. In 2004, Mrs Narbona drew the tenth additional provision and amended Article 26 so that we were not able to fix the environmental flow of the Ebro River. In eight years they had to do what the People's Party had arranged in the watershed hydrological plan, but in eight years they were unable to approve the twenty-five basin hydrological plans to which they were bound by the 2009 Water Framework Directive.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u84	Mr. Suárez, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u85	Yes, Mr. President, I'll be done in three seconds. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I insist that the river basin plan has had the courage to tackle the problem throughout the Ebro river basin and resolve it in good ways and, therefore, I ask you not to give it a door. It's a good plan. I'll tell you something else. In this life what is not consensual is the truth and the watershed hydrological plan collects figures that are good for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u86	Thank you, Mr. Suárez. Mr Eritja, I know you said that in your first speech, but it is up to me to ask you again, so that it is more clear when it comes to facilitating votes, whether your group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u87	No, not in principle. We basically accept our self-amendment and that of Democracy and Llibertat.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u88	Thank you very much. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE INCREASE OF THE MINIMUM INTERPROFESSIONAL SALARY. [[DEMOCRACY AND FREEDOM]] [[File number 162/000140]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u89	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage. [[Democracy and Freedom]] For the presentation of the initiative and the defence of the proposed amendment, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a joint initiative that we have put forward by the groups of Republican Left and Democracy and Llibertat. In fact, it is the first joint initiative that we have presented to these two groups since we entered the House and we do so on an important issue, such as establishing a mandate for the Government and the Inter-Professional Minimum Wage Commitment Chamber. We do so from the conviction we share with all the groups in the House that today the priority of any economic and social policy must be the recovery of employment, noting that employment is recovering, but also noting with concern that the employment that is being created is not of sufficient quality. Much of the employment that is created is with low wages, with the risk of returning to the growth model of the time of the real estate bubble and which explains part of the crisis in which we are installed. We are therefore convinced that it is now time to turn that dynamic around. [[The lady]] Perhaps we disagree with other groups in the fact that in the midst of recession the Spanish State did not have too many alternatives to wage devaluation and that then we had to opt for such a policy to improve the competitive position of companies, but today, in the midst of recovery, we say that this is not a path that has more to go, that to continue along the path of economic growth based on competitiveness for low wages leads us to poverty in the medium term; hence that proposal for change, of turn. We are convinced that low wages do not allow for a robust recovery. We believe that low wages explain part of the emigration of the most qualified young people. We understand that part of the financing problems of the social security system are precisely linked to wages. We are concerned about the increase in the number of so-called poor workers. We are concerned about the increase in inequality expressed in terms of Gini, since Spain is being record from this point of view. We are concerned about the weight loss of wage incomes in the whole of Spanish income. This model of competitiveness based on low wages must remind us that there will always be an emerging economy that will be able to produce a good with less wage costs than that which we can produce within the territory of the Spanish State. We are convinced that we need a wage policy that stimulates an increase in productivity that is essential to gain competitive positions. In this conviction, the proposal we put forward from Esquerra Republicana and from Democrácia i Llibertad is part of the idea that one of the measures to be taken - even if not as a magic recipe - is an increase in the minimum wage, moderate in its application, but clearly oriented - according to the position that we propose groups share - that in this legislature we can reach 60% of the average wage. That is the position we stand for in our initiative, responding to the recommendations of the European Social Charter and also responding to the very complaint made by the European Committee of Social Rights a few weeks ago to Spain that the Spanish minimum wage does not guarantee the objectives of that European Social Charter, recalling that our minimum wage today is at that 655 euros per month, below the poverty threshold in households with two people. We therefore propose an improvement of the minimum wage on that horizon of the European Social Charter as a strategy for changing the pattern of growth in employment. We do so by being critical with the government in office, which in December approved a minimum wage increase of 0.5% compared to 2015, far from the minimum wages of our environment. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that there are criticisms about the role of minimum wages. I believe that some spokesman will make such criticisms regarding the minimum wage. There are those who put it more in theoretical terms and say that minimum wages make it difficult to create jobs and are not in favour of their existence; there are those who understand that minimum wages are bad responses in economies with high unemployment rates, with low-skilled workers, with high youth unemployment. In our view, these criticisms, which are very respectable, make us forget that with regard to these problems our weaknesses may be in our active employment policies, in our incentives for recruitment, in the weight of social burdens in these types of more intensive contracts in lower-skilled employment or in the operation of the Youth Guarantee programme. We are convinced that a moderate growth in the minimum wage over time with that goal is not incompatible with job creation, but quite the contrary. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the demographic challenge that will arise from the next decade in our societies - Catalan, Spanish - will force us, if we do not want to re-edit an intensive model of low-quality job creation, to opt for quality job creation, which will make us less dependent on migratory flows, in order to guarantee the competitive capacity of our productive apparatus. This is a bet we make not in the short term but in the medium term. Finally, we are convinced that this is a measure of a deep social character. At a time when citizens are convinced that the costs of the crisis have been spread unfairly, we need to send clear messages that in times of recovery the benefits will be shared and that they are more likely to benefit from a change in the economic cycle. We hope, ladies and gentlemen, that today a broad majority will be obtained that sends a clear and committed message from the House in favour of raising the minimum wage with the aim of complying with the European Social Charter. This is the initiative that we have put before you and that we are putting to your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u91	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. We shall begin the interventions of the various groups which have tabled amendments to the proposal. Firstly, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u92	Thank you, President. Although the Government is not here, I would like to begin with a question. Who can live with 655,20 euros a month? I'm not going to get into the easy speech, but think about the price of a rental of any flat in any city to understand the drama that hundreds of thousands of people are living. We cannot allow a worker, working full - time, 40 hours a week, to remain poor. I think most of us don't like it, and today we can change it. Most of us know that the problem of low wages is not new, it is prior to the so-called economic crisis, but certainly the crisis has accentuated it, firstly, by the magnitude of it and, secondly, by the labour reforms imposed, which have burdened collective bargaining, which has meant an increase in working hours, in too many cases far above the law, and the imposition of a substantial reduction in wages, to the point that the interprofessional minimum wage is no longer a mere reference but the real wage of many workers, young or adult, with eight-hour days per day. The austere regime and the indecent cuts imposed by the IMF, the European Central Bank, the European Commission and its complicit governments, such as the current People's Party, also condemn these people who earn poverty wages to be even poorer, as their cuts impose health co-payments, the increase in the price of public transport, day care, the increase in educational fees, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish SMI is far below that of other countries - in France, EUR 1,458; in Germany, EUR 1,473; in Belgium, EUR 1,502; in the United Kingdom, EUR 1,379 - even much lower than in directly rescued countries, such as Ireland, where it is located at EUR 1,462. This so flagrant inequality also violates the European Social Charter, which is a mere declaration of minimums, but which recognises that the inter-professional minimum wage should be at least 60% of the average wage, i.e. EUR 1,000. Well, in the Spanish State, 35 % of the average wage is not reached, almost half. Maintaining the interprofessional minimum wage in these terms is to maintain and deepen inequality and maintain and sharpen a situation that is already unsustainable and cannot even wait for government to be formed. That is why we believe that this proposal should be implemented immediately if we are sensitive. [[The Lord]] With this proposal from the Group for Democracy and Liberation and Republican Left, we intend to change this situation, to remove from the limit, if not below poverty, thousands of people with names and surnames, not only because of dignity, but also because of purely economic and reformist arguments, but genuine reformists, and I really mean it because every time I hear the word reform according to which political party, the workers start to tremble with fear. We are here to take steps to rescue hundreds of thousands of citizens from poverty, evictions, to enable them to pay for light, food, water, in short, to alleviate the living conditions of a considerable part of the population, which is also the worst. We would not understand that they are demanding a left-wing government and that today we should not take a step towards raising the inter-professional minimum wage to at least the EUR 1,000 proposed today in the European Social Charter. It is not a question of complementing it with aid, subsidies or charity, as some parliamentary groups, such as Citizens, propose, which goes again, when it is more right-wing than the People's Party. Workers have the right to live with dignity, not with subsidies, not with supplements, but not only that. The second argument, and this will very much please many of you, is that, moreover, this increase in the minimum wage is good for the economy. The rise in the minimum wage has a multiplier effect, in the words of the good economist Dr. Xabier Arrizabalo, who explains it very well. It has a very positive effect in stimulating demand. Investing in the humblest people is far more profitable for society than doing so for those who take money to Panama. Increasing the minimum wage increases consumption. When you charge 1,000 euros, these 1,000 euros improve the economy in general and the local economy in particular. They don't go to Panama or any tax haven. Much of this money is left in the neighborhood, in the city or in the village. They improve the economy in general, because more needs to be produced to meet greater demand, and this is equal to more work, whose salary, by increasing, will contribute to more demand. Finally and finally, for lovers of law and order the best way to maintain what they call social peace is not the law of gags or the Penal Code designed for housewives, but to raise the wages and conditions of workers. [[Applauds]] This is the best law to maintain social peace, because with injustices, with poor workers, there is no peace possible. For all this and for much more, we ask you to vote in favour of this proposal that we are putting forward by the groups of Democracy and Llibertad and the Republican Left of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u93	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u94	Good afternoon, Mr. President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Jordi Salvador, saying that Citizens are more to the right than the People's Party, notes that the citizens' political program has not been read. I invite you from here to read it. [[Applauds]] It is true, as you all know, that the economic crisis has hit millions of workers, workers who, in the worst case scenario, have lost their jobs and, when not, have seen their wages reduced and their working conditions precariously reduced. We also find millions of workers who enter and leave the labour market continuously on different occasions throughout the year and do not reach the minimum wage in annual terms. So far, the measures that have been taken have not achieved the desired effects. The result has been quite the opposite. Unemployment levels remain alarming, inequality has increased and the resources used to address this worrying situation have been wasted. What has the Government done so far to combat this wage inequality? Recently, in December, as you all know, the government set the interprofessional minimum wage at EUR 655,20 per month or, which is the same, EUR 9,172,80 per year, an insufficient amount that will result in a loss of purchasing power for workers, in line with the wage devaluation that has been produced during the last parliamentary term. Therefore, from the Citizens Parliamentary Group we consider it necessary to address an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage in order to ensure that employment reports decent wages. That workers have decent wages is a priority for Citizens and I want to repeat: that workers get decent wages is a priority for Citizens. At the same time, it is essential that this rise be adequate and proportionate to the current economic situation, thus avoiding the opposite effect. Therefore, we propose to approve an increase in the minimum wage accompanied by the evolution of our economy and our productivity, as is also stated in the government agreement signed between Citizens and the Socialist Party last February and which in the same terms have been agreed by the social partners recently. An alarming fact is that we have around 6 million poor workers in Spain, workers who do not reach the annual minimum wage, as we pointed out earlier. The key is to understand that precarious work, a product of excessive contract rotation, is the source of poverty and that most of these precarious workers do not reach the minimum wage because they work only part of the year. These are workers who are constantly entering and leaving the labour market, alternating precarious contracts with unemployment benefits and allowances, so that the income they have at the end of the year does not exceed this minimum wage. Faced with this situation, the question we ask ourselves in Citizens is the following. Does the proposed increase in the inter-branch minimum wage solve the problem of the 6 million workers with annual incomes that do not reach that minimum wage? What measures are needed to correct the real situation of poverty and inequality among these workers? The answer is that the minimum wage is not the solution to improve the lives of these 6 million precarious workers, so that from Citizens we propose, in a way complementary to the gradual and progressive increase of the interprofessional minimum wage, the introduction of a wage supplement that guarantees sufficient minimum vital income to all workers, measure, on the other hand - we recall - incorporated in the agreement signed last 24 February between Citizens and the Socialist Party. We believe - as has been shown in other countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom or Sweden - that the most effective policy to combat wage poverty is this guaranteed wage supplement. Our proposal consists of a supplementary benefit for the most needy households. This amount will depend on earnings and the family situation, provided that the total amount of income is below a certain threshold. We believe that it is essential to help those with less income who have children or other dependants who are dependent on them and those who are to seek food and minimum assistance, so that the supplement in its initial version would be directed at households with lower incomes with family burdens and would be progressively extended throughout the legislature as the budgetary restriction allows for its extension. In short, the guaranteed wage supplement has three fundamental objectives: firstly, to combat inequality by increasing the incomes of the most disadvantaged workers; secondly, to do this by ensuring that there are no disincentives to work or the expulsion of less paid workers from employment, as would be the case with a sharp rise in the SMI as proposed here today; and finally, to encourage consumption of families, which will help to reinvigorate the economy. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group therefore agrees with the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage during this parliamentary term in the terms proposed in the amendment we have put forward, but we cannot be in favour of the sudden rise in the inter-professional minimum wage of 30% proposed by Democrácia i Llibertat. Has the Group on Democracy and Libertat considered how to counter the rise in unemployment that this proposed measure could generate? We must remind them that our economy currently carries 23% unemployment, so that we believe that increases in the inter-professional minimum wage must always be in line with the evolution of the economy and that the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage is not the solution to put an end to the precariousness of the 6 million poor workers. We therefore agree to raise the inter-professional minimum wage as our economy evolves, but it is essential to introduce a measure that will really help the precarious workers, and this is, gentlemen, the guaranteed wage supplement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u95	Thank you, Mr. Del Campo. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u96	Good afternoon, Mr President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and greetings also to the people who see us from their homes on the Internet. The day we stepped on this hall for the first time we amazed them, several photos turned the world around, but, really, CiU, we still don't know what they're surprised about. You have turned life in this country into a high-risk mission, and I come from some very beautiful but very ill-treated islands, where we know perfectly well what it is to run like animals not to reach 700 euros. Believe me, we know that well. Nearly 5 million people spend the day with a resume under their arms trying to find work, and those who have the fortune to find it enjoy conditions that make it impossible to live with minimal tranquility. Many factors influence this: temporality, endless days of many hours, fraud, loss of power from collective agreements and a long and so on, but very possibly the worst of all is the salary, which is what we come to talk about here today. Opening any newspaper we can find job offers with salaries that do not cover neither the expense for transportation and here nothing happens. Before we continue, I would like to make special mention of the fact that this proposal - to which we are going to vote yes, obviously - brings it to the Congress Democracy and Llibertat, the former Convergence and Union, responsible for the hardest and brutal cuts in the history of democracy made by an autonomous community. The rise of fees, health co-payment and covert privatizations often filled the streets of Barcelona with millions of Catalans and outraged Catalans. It doesn't stop being paradoxical. [[Applauds]] It reminds me a lot of when Coalition Canaria, PP and PSOE speak of 26% unemployment in the Canary Islands as if it were the fault of the Holy Spirit, as if they had not been governing the islands for thirty years without interruption and as if they were not the only ones responsible for this fact, for this disaster. On Sunday we were amazed at how the president of our country, the one who has raised the interprofessional minimum wage in the last four years a mean 2.4%, had the face to say that almost no one pays the minimum wage in Spain. Mr. Rajoy - who of course isn't here, that's why we were already counting on him not to be, because he's never -, look what you said lies on Sunday, but with this he's already outdone! The minimum interprofessional wage, i.e. a miserable EUR 655, is paid by 34% of workers in this country, 34%. [[Applauds]] That is why it is so important that we increase it urgently to 800 euros and that we can finish the legislature around 950 to get closer, or at least try, to the European average. This is not only a question of justice, but also a question of effectiveness. It's a primary economy, a nursery economy. If more and more people have less purchasing power because of the wages of misery, they will consume much less, the economy will stagnate and many businesses, many businesses will have to close the doors, condemning more and more people to unemployment, without forgetting that low wages obviously cause lower social security contributions and therefore put the survival of our public pension system at serious risk, although I know that you do not care much about that. In conclusion, that our country's minimum wage of shame destroys the economy, condemns pensions to death, expels thousands of people to forced emigration and turns the lives of millions of families into real hell, and they are still surprised that 5 million people will vote for us. It's just that up to a few were, up to a few were! [[Applauds]] We propose an urgent increase of up to 800 euros in the first two years of the legislature and an increase of up to 950 euros the last two in order to homologate with our European neighbours and to improve with very little effort the lives of millions of people. Yesterday, when I told my mother that I was going to intervene in plenary for the first time, she said to me, "My child, don't be afraid. Get up there and give a voice to those who don't even know they have a voice. That's what I've been trying to do in these minutes. I go back to my seat wondering if any of you will have the little shame of voting against this rise as you enter more than 4,000 euros of public money every month. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u97	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Saura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Party we think that more than ever we must put the fight against inequality at the centre of all economic policy decisions and that we must do more than ever because inequality has increased in Spain. We are the second country with inequality in the European Union as a whole and, in addition, in the European Commission's latest report on the macroeconomic imbalances in our country, what it said was: Yes, employment has been created, but inequality has not been reduced. This is the novelty of the economic moment that we live in the world. Hyperglobalization is generating a new phenomenon, which may be economic growth, but inequalities are not reduced. The other day, indeed, Mr Rajoy, in a television interview, said that very few people paid the minimum wage. That shows the deep ignorance of reality. There are many people, many very young, who are below the minimum wage, because they have contracts of hours, days, and are below the minimum wage. That's the reality. Minimum wage policy is one of the tools to reduce inequality. Then there are the policies of redistribution, of the welfare state, but, in what is called predisposition, this is a very important policy to reduce inequalities. Let us not forget that economic growth does not ensure the elimination of inequalities. That is the new phenomenon that we live in the world. In fact, those who speak of secular stagnation, of the new mediocrity, of the new normality of the world, basically that has to do with the increase in inequality, and that is why we think that we must put - and I return to the beginning - the fight against inequality at the heart of all economic policy decisions. [[Applauds]] That is what we put forward in these amendments to the non-legislative proposal that has been put forward. In addition to the problem we have, it turns out that we have met a government, the right government in our country over the past four years, which, with its social policy, its economic policy, its labour policy, its fiscal policy, its budgetary policy, has increased inequalities. The other day Mr Montoro told us that one of the culprits of the deviation of the deficit of 2015 was the hepatitis patients, when almost 10 billion euros have been given to higher incomes and large corporations. [[Applauds]] That is inequality, inequality in the economic, fiscal and budgetary policy of the People's Party Government. It was said that it is the autonomous communities, i.e. the welfare state, who are responsible for the deviation from deficit targets, but it is the wage policy that causes the social security accounts to be unbalanced by around 15 billion euros, despite the fact that we are growing by around 3 % - when the previous government left the social security accounts in equilibrium - 15 billion euros, largely because of the labour policy and increasing the inequality of the People's Party government. The previous government of the Socialist Party increased the minimum wage by 15% in terms of purchasing power by 15%. The People's Party Government, in terms of purchasing power, has reduced the minimum wage by 2.5%. A 15% increase in the minimum wage compared to a decrease in purchasing power of 2.5%. The 15 % increase is not the same as a decrease of 2,5 %. It is not the same as the PSOE as the PP, also in minimum wage. [[Applauds]] Moreover, if in our country we compare the minimum wage in relation to the average wage, we see that we are still in line with the OECD countries. Therefore, on the basis of Mr Campuzano's non-legislative proposal, we are making a compromise amendment to improve it from our point of view. Why are we going to support this proposal with illusion? Firstly, because it marks a goal of Spanish society. We must achieve the objectives of the most developed countries of the European Union, i.e. to go to the European Social Charter. That is why we passionately support that non-law proposal and the amendment we are proposing. It is an aspiration of Spanish society. Secondly, because it is intended to be done in a consensual way between economic and social actors. Thirdly, because it has to be accompanied by the evolution of the economy and the increase in productivity, because it is also important that it is done according to the increase in productivity. In the world, economic studies are opening up, saying that the increase in the minimum wage not only does not reduce employment, but also contributes to the exit from the crisis. Empirical works in connection with this circumstance are opening the way in the world. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, those kinds of studies are on their way. I'm done. Don't forget, growth doesn't ensure the reduction of inequality. That's the latest news in the world. Let us place at the centre of all economic policy decisions the fight against inequality now more than ever. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u99	Thank you, Mr. Saura. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Asian González.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my surprise at the statement made by the representative of the Socialist Group, because not long ago, in particular in March 2009, we had the opportunity to discuss in this House an initiative from the Catalan Parliament with the same aim: to raise the inter-professional minimum wage, and it was rejected. The Socialist Group rejected it by referring to the words of Largo Caballero: Workers must always be told the truth, even if they do not like it. And he argued that he was doing it out of responsibility, because he had to tie his shoulder and because he had to support small and medium-sized enterprises to create jobs. And I say, when the Socialist Party is not in government, is it no longer necessary to tell the workers the truth? Don't you have to be responsible? Don't you have to tie your shoulder? Should we not support small and medium-sized enterprises? [[Applauds]] We are in agreement with continuing to raise the interprofessional minimum wage. We do not agree with the statement of reasons for GNP, which states that it has to increase because of the need to increase the payment of taxes. We do not agree with this, because we have a solidarity tax system, based precisely on economic capacity, and we have to pay for the income that is received and not for the cost of services. Nor were we in agreement with the initial wording of the non-law proposal, because we were not in line with the pay increase path. We have a compromise amendment, in which we have agreed that this interprofessional minimum wage should grow in accordance with economic circumstances and productivity. We will therefore vote in favour of this compromise amendment. We think that it has to raise the interprofessional minimum wage, but also all the low and average wages of our country. That is why we have made a tax reform to reduce the tax burden on those who have less; we have made a law for vocational training for employment, because we think that training and qualification are the best weapons to combat low wages, and, above all, we have made the fight against unemployment our ultimate goal, because, indeed, when jobs are destroyed, wages cannot be raised. Fortunately, the trend has changed, employment is now created, and that lower supply will rebalance wages at a higher level. In addition, the interprofessional minimum wage no longer has the reference value it had before 2004 to meet the needs of the most vulnerable. The Socialist Party took care to avoid it. He replaced the interprofessional minimum wage with the Iprem. So far, all normal. In 2004, the minimum wage and Iprem had a similar level. What did you do in both legislatures? They raised the minimum wage by 39%, which, apart from the effect of inflation, is 80 euros in eight years - not much - and benefited 125,000 workers, but the Iprem raised it by 16%, below the inflation, which was 21%, harming 600,000 grantees, those who received the agricultural subsidy, 2.5 million who received the unemployment benefit and 5 million Spaniards who declared they did not have enough funds to reach the end of the month in 2011. They benefited 125,000 and harmed 8 million Spaniards and also without suffering the political cost that it represents. [[Applauds]] We are in favour of all the rules that mean an improvement in the wages and quality of life of workers, but we want it through structural reforms, as we have done so far, and it is recognised in the report of the European Commission Spain 2016 and in the unemployment data of March 2016, but we want it, first of all, with rules for growth. When there is growth this growth is transferred to employment and, once it has moved to employment, we want a greater share of wage income in national income, but the other way around is absolutely impossible. This GNP is a request to the next Government. Once we leave a situation of growth in employment, of protection for the most vulnerable groups with direct aid - because we have made a social inclusion plan, a strategy for the homeless, a fund for families with children in economic difficulty - we leave it to the next government to carry out the task of this GNP, and I therefore ask all the groups in this House to do everything we can to reach agreement and to make it effective. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Asian. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mrs Beitialarrangoitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u102	Sweep on, good afternoon. The European Social Charter is clear on this and the Spanish Government is committed to it, at least on paper. The minimum wage must be equivalent to 60% of the average net wage. Translated into euros, this implies that citizens living in Euskal Herria should receive at least 1,200 euros a month, almost twice the 655 currently established. The European Social Charter and the minimum income recommended by the European Union are therefore not met so that people are not in poverty. According to these criteria, at present and only in Euskal Herria there are more than half a million people who lack sufficient financial resources to lead a dignified life. But not just that. The reality shows us that even the law itself is not being complied with as regards the minimum wage established, which further exacerbates the situation. This causes more and more people to be poor in our environment, not because they have partial jobs or lack them, but even working full-time. And it is that, although theoretically we are in a phase of growth, the distribution of wealth continues to shine by its absence. On the contrary, a few rich people feed on the misery of the majority. Social differences have therefore increased. And what about the women's case. I will give you only two illustrative data: Basques would have to see their wages increased by 35.6% on average to match Basques, and 85% of domestic workers do not currently charge the minimum. We must therefore combat this harsh reality, we must act against poverty and recognise a minimum wage of EUR 1,200 as a right, among many other measures. That is why we support the initiative put forward, we have also signed the compromise amendment, although I am sure that the interpretation of what the text says is very different for some, the 'as soon as possible', the 'conformity with the economic situation'; but we support it because we believe that it is urgent to move forward in this area and to stop being in line in Europe. Finally, I would like to challenge your ladies and gentlemen to take a moment to think about it and to try to lead a dignified life with EUR 655 a month. Already advance them that will be difficult for them, when not impossible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. Mrs Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u104	Thank you. There are 14% of workers below the poverty line. This crisis has been paid for by the workers of this country. What was at issue here, at least in the first GNP that was presented, was - we understood - to dignify the work and to give it a decent reward, to correct, moreover, the increase in the wage gap, poverty and inequality. However, in this compromise amendment that is presented to us, many concessions have finally been made, I understand that so that everyone can vote in favour. We are told that it is reasonable - and that cannot be done otherwise - to charge EUR 655 a month, and I remind everyone and all your ladies and gentlemen that here there is a complement for each and every Member who lives in Madrid that goes beyond EUR 800 and that is supposed to survive. Therefore, what we are doing is recognizing that it seems to us that others deserve less or otherwise, I cannot understand it. And if you live outside the Community of Madrid, it is more than 1,800 euros. I would just like to say one thing so that it is clear: do not feel your lordships better than those people, those workers who charge 655 euros because they are not. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez. Mr. Bataller.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we have one of the lowest minimum wages in Europe which almost coincides with the poverty line in Spain, which is set at EUR 8,000 a year, and we are waking up from a bad dream. The passage of the People's Party by the Government has meant the almost complete freezing of the interprofessional minimum wage. For you to calculate, from 2012 until today, in four years, this minimum wage has risen a total of 13.80 euros, ladies and gentlemen; 13.80 euros, that is, the cost that has a menu of the day in numerous hotels in our country, and with this I understand that few families can settle their payments for housing, food, school supplies for their children, etc. The question we have to ask ourselves is: when we talk about minimum wages, are we also talking about minimum lives? Because we are talking about precarious employees who are ingenious to survive, because in Spain there is the very serious problem of poor workers, of people who work forty hours or more a week and have to live assisted by the benefit or by their families. We are talking about equilibriumists, and I say this with all due respect, people who keep their lives waiting on a thread and who, in the face of any unforeseen expenditure, fall fatally on the threshold of debt, of poverty. We're talking about people who have to work, if they can, in two different jobs to get ahead of their family by leaving their skin. Imagine how family life can thus be compatible with working life. Madrid, for example, is the second largest and most segregated European capital with greater social inequality, which means that a large number of people have fallen behind in the welfare career. We do not want minimum lives, but decent lives, we want to turn the minimum wage into a decent wage that covers basic needs and allows all people to live safely. And let us not just say this, we are violating six articles on labour rights of the European Social Charter, we are failing to comply with it. But, ladies and gentlemen, change has come, people demand that we respond to this social emergency and inequalities. Since Compromís we have been betting on a people's government, the same people who have been harmed by policies that we now have the opportunity to change. In the previous legislature we have seen wages fall and we have seen time increase. Also in the previous parliamentary term we have heard how from the seats of this House there were sounding expressions that disregarded the social problems that we live in this country, rudeness that contributed nothing to the debate and that only produced shame. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen? Well, it's time to move on to all this and work for an equality-based society. We bet that the government that emerges in this legislature will end the wage devaluation and loss of workers' rights. It is necessary to regain its purchasing power in order to give strength also to economic growth, because our country cannot compete by lowering labour costs, but by increasing productivity. Today we defend and urge the next Government to raise the inter-professional minimum wage and we do so for all those who balance to survive with so much sacrifice in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u107	Thank you, Mr. Bataller. Finally, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, believe me that this issue of the interprofessional minimum wage goes beyond the mere quantitative question and affects the definition of the model of society that we each have in mind. I have to say that the Basque Group, which I represent now, does not participate in a model of society based on poverty and inequality. The great contradiction evident in this non-law proposal is the finding that the minimum wage is a wage of poverty. Although it is makeup, it remains a wage of poverty and the problem is that until it is adapted to quantitative and qualitative parameters of dignity, that is, those in our environment, it will remain a wage of poverty. To this end, several speakers have already pointed out that the European Social Charter - whose revision, by the way, has not yet been ratified by the Spanish State - is the most comprehensive catalogue at European level of social rights and Article 4 defines this commitment to guarantee a right to decent remuneration as an equitable remuneration understood as a sufficient remuneration that provides workers and their families with a decent standard of living. Nor is this definition different from that of article 35 of the Constitution, which accords with the same meaning and understands that the worker, and as a counterpart to his or her work, to his or her right and duty of work, must attain sufficient remuneration to meet his or her needs and those of his or her family. And as my predecessors have also recalled, however, we find that the last Decree 1171/2015, and according to article 27 of the Workers' Statute, has encrypted the amount of the minimum interprofessional wage at 665 euros per month or 764 euros in twelve wages. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if this data is striking, it is even more so than my predecessor has stepped on me - and let me express it - and it is that the interprofessional minimum wage has grown in the last four years the cold one, because it has no other definition, from 13.46 euros, from 641.40 to 655.20 euros. Such progression - said in quotes -, we believe that it is neither casual nor fair. A few days ago the Committee on Employment and Social Security, of which I am also a member, commented, among other issues, on the adaptation of Spanish legislation and the degree of compliance with the European Social Charter. It was the XX-3 report of 2014, issued by the European Committee of Social Rights. In relation to the inter-professional minimum wage, it contained an answer that had been given by the Spanish Government precisely to the questions asked about the inadequacy of these amounts. The Spanish Government's reply says as follows: The economic and financial crisis must be taken into account when setting the inter-branch minimum wage to the extent that it influences job creation. This is the interpretation made at the time by the Government, that the freezing of the interprofessional minimum wage is a measure used by the Government as a tool in the face of the crisis situation and hypothetically for the purpose of job creation. With all due respect, gentlemen of the Government, this equation is unacceptable, it seems almost infernal to us, but above all it seems to us to reveal socio-economic models in which, with all due respect, we do not participate. We find it untenable from a human and social point of view to use that mechanism which makes the poor the poorest, precisely the recipients of the interprofessional minimum wage. We find it hard to maintain it when we are aware that it is generating inequality, because it has been maintained in this last decree despite the fact that the consequence of inequality has also been analyzed by parameters that have also been analyzed by my predecessors. And what is also serious is that, even if this measure produces all these effects and therefore undermines the personal dignity of these workers, it has continued to be maintained for reasons that have been based on the hypothesis that it would serve for job creation. However, we believe that it is also questionable whether it is effective for this purpose, for the purpose of creating employment, not only because it seems false or perverse to us the equation that at less wage more work, but also because there is no doubt that less wage disincentive to the worker and away from the possibility of participating in the maintenance of his own services and public benefits. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not the model that the Basque Group has defended. On the contrary, we believe that it is necessary to approximate the amounts of the minimum wage to the amounts and models proposed by the European Social Charter, that is, those who seek to avoid poverty. And the definition of a decent minimum and the definition of poverty is not an issue that we are going to invent right now. There are EU-SILC statistics, which were created from 2013 onwards and are covered by Commission Regulation 1177/2003, which defines, among other issues, the poverty risk rate and understands that this is an amount that identifies an income of less than 60% of the equivalent national disposable income. Therefore, the European Social Charter, in the reverse of the same currency and in order to meet the requirements of Article 4, specifies that the amount of the minimum inter-professional wage in each country must reach 60% of the average net wage in the territory of the State.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u109	Mr. Barandiaran, I'll conclude. I know you've covered the time marker with the leaflets, but you'll see what happened.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u110	Precisely because it understands that, if not, it affects that risk of poverty. That is, therefore, the objective that we intend to pursue and that is why we now announce that we will support the proposal not of law, because that is the model not only retributive, but social and socio-economic with which we can somehow converge, and with whom we cannot converge in any way. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u111	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. Before we proceed to the vote, I have to ask you, Mr Campuzano, whether your group accepts some of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u112	Mr President, the Bureau is familiar with the text that we have agreed with almost the majority of the groups. My group appreciates the debate, the proposal and the agreed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u113	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u114	We shall begin the voting. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal to reform the first additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 290 abstentions, 44.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u115	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u116	We then vote for the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the suspension of the timetable for the implementation of the Organic Law 8/2013 of 9 December, for the improvement of the quality of education. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 186 against, 112 abstentions, 41.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u117	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u118	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, on the revision of the Hydrological Plan of the Ebro Basin. Voted in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Democracy and Freedom]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 90 against, 159 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u119	It's rejected. [[Applauds]] - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE INCREASE OF THE MINIMUM INTERPROFESSIONAL SALARY. [[DEMOCRACY AND FREEDOM]] [[File number 162/000140]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u120	Finally, we voted for the non-law proposal of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage. [[Democracy and Freedom]] If no group objects, the vote shall be taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled. The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 339.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-04-05-CD160405.u121	It was adopted unanimously. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. It was eight and fifty minutes of the night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 3, corresponding to plenary session number 3, held on Wednesday, March 2, 2016, on page 30, third paragraph, where it says 'Mr Iglesias Turrón' should say 'Mr Iglesias Turrion'. In the Journal of Sessions No 5, for plenary meeting No 5, held on 15 March 2016, on page 61, the vote by consent of the proposals for the establishment of Standing Committees should include the following title: PROPOSAL FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PERMANENT COMMISSION FOR THE FOLLOW-UP AND EVALUATION OF THE AGREEMENTS OF THE TOLEDO COVENANT. [[File number 155/000006]]
