ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before we move on to the agenda, I would like to announce to you that, as has been the tradition in the last parliamentary term, we are going to group together all the votes of today's plenary session, and to that end I would like to inform you that the vote, according to an estimate by the Bureau, can be held around or starting at eight o'clock in the afternoon. Take this hourly forecast simply as an indicative one because it is the first time that this Parliament with this composition has a plenary in which it is going to discuss non-law proposals and other issues and, therefore, we still have to adjust the use of time well. The pooled vote will therefore start at eight o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u2	Now we move on to the agenda. First, the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the unity of Spain and the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the defence of democracy, equality and union of all Spaniards will be discussed jointly, in accordance with the request of the proposing groups and as it has been transferred to the Board of Spokesmen. For the presentation of the initiatives and, where appropriate, for the defence of the amendments, I have the floor, first of all, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which will defend its non-legislative proposal this time, and also the amendment that you have tabled, Mrs Montserrat, for a period of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a joy to be part of a world in which we are all united, as nature is. We could not understand the Mediterranean Sea without the fusion of the Atlantic Sea through the Strait of Gibraltar. We could not enjoy the art of Barceló without the association of all colors, the palette, the brush and the hours of the artist. And neither could we listen to Manuel de Falla's music without the cohesion of all the notes, scores and instruments in perfect communion. Spain is like nature, art, music, language, is linked to each other. Spain is the title of a success story of more than five hundred years. And we'll ask ourselves: How did we get it? Simple, we made it together. Together we have achieved five hundred years of coexistence. Together we have achieved thirty-eight years of reconciliation, word and democracy. Together we have managed not to win the battle those who have wasted their lives on hatred and violence. Together we have policely defeated ETA, and we have done so from the law. Together we have supported and accompanied the victims and their families, ensuring the principles of memory, truth, dignity and justice. Together we have avoided intervention and emerged from the deepest recession of our democracy, and I dare say that of our history. And no doubt, together we are more generous and more supportive. Spain is the admiration of the world, because we were the first to walk on the path of modernity five hundred years ago. Our union as a country is not only a tribute to history nor a attachment to a flag; our fusion is based on democracy, reason, freedom, justice, equality, coexistence and ideological pluralism within the framework that we have all given ourselves in our legal system, the supremacy of law and the limitation of power. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is alive and I propose that we continue to move together in this history of success and illusion. Some propose an antagonistic vision of Spain, they want to break our nation and raise walls when there is no wall left in Europe; they want to supplant national sovereignty by relying on so-called differential facts. In Spain there is no sovereignty conflict because there is only one sovereignty that falls on the 47 million Spaniards. They propose us decadence in the face of the power and social and economic progress of the last forty years that we have achieved together. They propose intolerance in the face of the whisper of reason. Some have looted Catalonia wrapped up in the stelade and have drawn public money from health and education to orchestrate a propaganda and sectarian apparatus that has divided us between Catalans and other Spaniards. While we were receiving scorn and disdain, we were all Spaniards together, investing in the real problems of all Catalans and the rest of Spaniards in all the autonomous communities of Spain. They break the agreements, dynamite the consensus, and threaten every day with faits consummées. Faced with this nonsense, we struggle for coexistence and law enforcement. I know what I'm going to say is not going to like it, but in Catalonia we live in a caste regime: the caste of the first Catalans and the caste of the second Catalans. Yes, Mr. Iglesias, you have not invented castes; the nationalists first invented it and warned you, using the same word, Mr. Rajoy from this rostrum on February 1, 2005, eleven years ago. They call me second-rate Catalan for the mere fact of feeling, thinking, talking, esteeming in Catalan, which is my best way of feeling proudly Spanish. [[Applauds]] And I find it embarrassing and incongruent to observe how independent and populist politicians have taken advantage of these years of effort and general suffering to impose their agenda and their almanac that is no other than farewell to Spain, fly outside the Constitution, destroy the democratic system and unity of Spain. In a global world, impositions and unrealities do not fit, it is only possible to abandon the pessimism of those who want to convince us that we would be better off being worse, that we would be better off being less, that we would be better off with one way of thinking, exclusive and nationalistic. Independence and separation are not possible in a global world. This rupturist project has already failed in Europe, failed on 27 September and will fail in the future. To you, to the independenceist people I say: Of course Spain is not a perfect country - none is it - but abandon its failure, keep in the history of this great nation of men and women from all corners of Spain, coming from all the revels of the world that have been formed with the passage of many generations and with the sum of all ideologies and all languages without ever excluding anyone. And let them be clear that no Catalan or any Spanish are caste; we are simply citizens of this country, where we want to live together within the constitutional framework in peace and freedom to continue building this democracy of progress side by side with those who think differently than us. We live together, yes, and together we must decide and together we must improve Spain. And how to improve? What's the solution? There is only one, democracy; the democracy that we have all given ourselves. We can only resolve it with more democracy and more politics. Democracy is the greatest dialogue between us; democracy is the framework of our coexistence and politics is the art of coexistence. For those who think that the only answer is a referendum in Catalonia and for those who want to fragment Spain as the only solution, I say to them that neither democracy nor politics are only votes but respect for the law. Only the law makes us equal and there is no freedom outside the law. The conception of Spain for the People's Party is that of constitutional Spain. We are sick of seeing how many despise and throw this great work, which is the Constitution, into the sewer. The Constitution is the most modern, advanced and European concept that Spain has ever known. It is not only a guarantee of unity, but it is, above all, a guarantee of the freedom I want for my land, of the equality I want for my land - that they do not treat me as a second-rate Catalan - and of coexistence. The Constitution has brought us the best period of glory in our history. In the face of those who want - lately we are listening - to change the Constitution for the mere fact that it is not new and that they did not vote, I want to tell you that I am grateful for the Constitution that I did not vote, thanking my parents and my friends' parents for the Constitution that they have left us. Today, at the beginning of this legislature, it is the best day to transfer the witness of our Constitution to our children, so that they continue to progress along with those who think differently to them, who value what has been achieved by the generations before them, who show themselves determined to grow our nation, with the force of the law and with the illusion of overcoming all obstacles. This is the biggest challenge that Spain has and why the People's Party is working day by day. Our point in common with all Spaniards is Spain. We can only get it together with the word. We're all waiting here. With this argument the People's Parliamentary Group has just defended our non-legislative proposal, but, aware of the importance of this debate on the unity of Spain, national sovereignty and coexistence among all, we have tabled an amendment to the Citizens' text to include a meeting point for PP, PSOE and Citizens. We sincerely hope that it will be supported because now more than ever and without leaving a halo of oxygen to those who want to break Spain we must defend the unity of Spain without cracks. This is expected by the vast majority of Spaniards. I sincerely hope that they will not put - by a Citizens-PSOE pact - the reform of the Constitution before the unity of Spain. That's where we're waiting for you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Montserrat. Mr Rivera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who see us in this plenary, the following after the investiture debate, why are we defending here today what seems obvious: the equality of all Spaniards, respect for the rules of play, democracy, and the union of the Spanish people and national sovereignty? We do this because, unfortunately, in recent months and especially in Catalonia, in my land, Junts pel Yes - which are two parliamentary groups that are represented in this democratic House - defended and continue to defend the break of democratic legality, the break of the equality of the Spaniards and the break of coexistence in our country. Faced with that, in the face of the temptation that some may have to think that, since there is no government because it is in office, we do not have a Parliament, today I want to send a clear message to all the Spaniards: there is Parliament, there is a legislator and there is a large majority that defends and will defend the union of all the Spaniards. Today the Spanish have to know that three quarters of this House will support what unites us, they will support the Spanish Constitution, they will support any reform within the constitutional framework and they will support that all Spaniards are equal before the law and we all decide on our country; not by territories, not by autonomous communities, not by provinces, not by regions, but by all, as the most advanced nations in the world do. Today we come to defend article 1 of the Constitution. [[Shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] And you will say, it is written in the Constitution - Constitution that, by the way, in this very rostrum some have broken and others have broken and others want to do so politically -, but we come to defend that this Constitution is alive, that this Constitution is the best thing that has happened in the last years of Spanish history, but that it is necessary to review and update it, like any other constitution in the world. Article 1 of the Constitution is therefore essential. For us, equality is not negotiated, the union of the Spaniards is not a currency of exchange of any government pact or of any legislature, but it is something fundamental to succeed together in our common project. Finally, we also want to make it clear in this initiative that the Government in office cannot do what it wants to do when it is in office, but at the same time it must have the support of this House in making decisions, just as we want this House to make it clear that the legislative power protects and will protect the Government in office in order to defend democratic legality as has been done in a consensual way in recent months and as it must continue to govern whoever governs, whoever the president is and whatever the majority is. Today the Spanish can be calm because they will know that, after this vote, three-quarters of the House, three-quarters of the Spanish people say that equality and union are not negotiated. This is a message of tranquillity, political stability and also a message of the future for the Spaniards. Why do we bring this initiative into these first steps of this legislature? As I said, because there is a challenge, because there are people, there are Members of Parliament, there are parliamentarians and there are autonomous governments that openly defend the break-up of our country. There is a road map agreed by parliamentary groups in the Catalan Parliament that openly say that in less than eighteen months they want to strike against the Constitution, skip the rules of the game and, therefore, undermine the equality and fundamental rights of all Spaniards, including Catalans. We therefore want to make that position clear. We who are here represent the Spanish citizens with great honor. On the other hand, we also want to make clear today in this initiative that, in the face of the hesitations, in the face of the temptation of the pacts, in the face of the exchange of chromosomes, in the face of things that have happened in recent years, some parties have not worked for the common good, but have tried to condition the governments of Spain or this House not for the common good, but for a particular good - some even personal good, as we have seen in some cases of corruption - and that, from now on in this House, national issues are dealt with between national parties, which we invite the nationalist parties to participate in the reforms of this country, but that never again those who want to break our country can condition what we all want together. Therefore, this parliamentary majority of three quarters, which is to be seen today in this House, represents millions and millions of Spaniards, so I would also like to make it clear in this rostrum that we are not going to reform the Constitution to satisfy Mr Mas or Mr Junqueras, but that we can satisfy the vast majority of Spaniards with a project that is being renewed, with a project that is once again gaining momentum, with a project that has to change many policies, not just the Constitution - economic policies, social policies, justice policies, education - which can, through the updating of our Magna Charter, reinvigorate the common project. Therefore, it is not the object of this initiative, nor of the constitutional reform that some of us defend, to content those who will never be happy; it is the object of the same that the Spaniards, who treasure national sovereignty, are satisfied with those who govern them and with the Chambers that represent them. Finally, I also wanted to make it clear that, although some tell lies a thousand times, not by repeating them a thousand times will be true, although some would already like them. We have heard in recent years, even some national parties like Podemos, who have fallen into the trap of that speech, invoking, for example, the right of self-determination. The right of self-determination is a right that the Charter of the United Nations, in its 1960 Resolution, makes clear that it is for oppressed peoples, for persecuted minorities, for persecution, in this ethnic or religious case, but under no circumstances can the right of self-determination be invoked in a democratic country because it would be as much as recognizing that we are not a democracy, because it would be as much as recognizing that we are pursuing minorities, because it would be as much as recognizing that there is no self-government in Catalonia, in Euskadi or in any other territory. I invite you to read paragraph 6 of Resolution 1514 of 1960, read what it says. The right to self-determination can never be invoked to break national units, or countries belonging to the entity itself, to the United Nations. It is therefore not worth invoking the right of self-determination because it is false, because it is a right that cannot be invoked in a democratic country. There is only one constitution in the world that captures that right, that of Ethiopia, which is not precisely an example of the prosperity neither democratic nor economic nor social that we want. The rest of the constitutions recognize reform, the capacity for change, but in no case break up as a working formula. Second lie, the Spanish Constitution is a wall, the Transition was a gag, this Constitution is ancient. Look, it's one of the newest constitutions in Europe because there are constitutions of the sixties, of the seventies, and there are others, like that of the United States, of two centuries or two centuries and peak. So it's fake. Secondly, it is a wall because it cannot be reformed. False. The Spanish Constitution, unlike other constitutions, can be changed. Moreover, we can change even the model of state. I invite you to try it in the Italian Constitution. They can't. I invite you to try to change the federal model in Germany. They can't. But in Spain we can choose whether we want to be monarchy or republic, we can choose whether we want autonomy or more federal model, or less autonomy. Because our parents in the Constitution gave us an open, flexible Magna Charter to adapt it to the times. Therefore, it is a lie that our Constitution is old, it is one of the newest; it is a lie that our Constitution cannot be changed. What is happening, gentlemen, is that it has to be changed by a large majority; fortunately, because, if not, minorities would impose on the rest of the population issues that are not accepted by the majority. Do we want citizens to reform the Constitution, update it or improve it? Yeah. Do we want some to break our Magna Charter, our coexistence and our union? No, never; nor will we allow it democratically, with this vote we will demonstrate it. So it's time for reforms, it's time for a new political stage, but it's not time to break what unites us. It is not time to dynamite the coexistence or the union between Spaniards. It is not time for privilege or inequality, it is time for equality, coexistence and prosperity for all Spaniards. By a large majority we will have to reform the Spanish Constitution and the result of the vote that is to be seen here today is the necessary one to reform the Constitution, and I invite the People's Party to do just as we agreed to vote on this point together today, which also reflects the agreement between the Socialist Party and the citizens - it is the same point in the same text - since we are going to vote on this so, why do we not think whether among the vast majority of this House, which is three quarters of the Spanish population, we begin to see in what points the constitutional reform unites us? I let them decide whether or not they pick up the glove for this reform. I insist, a reform to strengthen the common project, a reform to guarantee equality between Spaniards, a reform to clean up and heal our democracy, not a reform to break it as some would like. So I call on the broad, very broad majority to vote on this point today, which we also think will in the future be up to date and move our common project back. So with the text that has finally been negotiated with the Socialist Group, together with the initiative that was presented by the People's Group a few days later but which basically reflects the same thing - union, sovereignty, respect for the Constitution and coexistence - we are voting together today. We invite the other parties to join any reform of our Constitution, any change within the law, and we also want to make clear to those who want to break the coexistence, to those who want to break what unites us, that Spanish democracy has mechanisms to reform itself, but that Spanish democracy also has mechanisms to enforce the law for the whole world. Today, therefore, the Government in office also has the backing of this House to continue to enforce the laws throughout the Spanish territory. Finally, I'll think about it. There is something I share with nuances, not exactly as the representative of the People's Party has said, although I share most of her speech. I believe that Spain is not an identity project. Spain is a civil project. Spain is a project of civil values. Spain is a project where there is no common identity, neither in Spain, nor in Catalonia in particular, nor in the Basque Country; there are 47 million identities, each has its own individual identity, each has the freedom to interpret this country as it wants and to feel as it wants to feel. We do not intend to tell anyone what language you need to speak because, fortunately, we have several official and co-official languages. We don't intend to tell anyone how to feel, everyone who feels what he wants. We do not intend to tell anyone even to feel more Spanish or less. We simply ask you to share a common project, to respect democratic laws and to participate in the reforms of this country. That is our model of Spain, a diverse Spain but a united Spain, a Spain that defends civil values beyond the particular and individual identities of each Spanish, to which we deeply respect. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we want today to take the first step for a broad majority to guarantee union, but also in the future to review and push forward a new, exciting, reformist political stage, with a desire to put Spain and the Spanish back where they deserve it. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is worth it, but, above all, the Spanish deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u6	Thank you, Mr. Rivera. It is now time for the groups that have tabled amendments, and for their defence by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Batet has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, two initiatives are being brought to this House calling on the Government to defend legality and to reaffirm values that are in our Constitution, such as equality between Spaniards, territorial integrity or unity in Spain. The Socialist Group, beyond showing the conformity and defence of the Constitution, as we have always done, has tabled an amendment with the aim of offering a political solution to the territorial crisis, which is one of the main political problems our country has. It is obvious that we share, like any Democrat, that the government, as well as all public authorities, has to defend the current legality. The rule of law has undoubtedly been one of the great conquests of civilization and is the ultimate source of our freedom. Having said that, Parliament is seeking solutions to the real problems of the citizens and we have to ask ourselves: would it not be much more useful to be giving substance today, for example, to the appearance of the President of the Government in office so that he would go to the European Council with a common position, with a mandate from this Parliament, to attend to the greatest humanitarian crisis, the most painful and alarming, that we are experiencing? [[Applauds]] We have to ask ourselves, are we really useful? Is this House, this Parliament, useful to citizens by voting on the Constitution in the form of non-legislative proposals? Is there anything in it, is there any solution in it, or should we go further? The answer, from our point of view, is that this House must do politics and, Mrs Montserrat, for us to do politics is not only to say that we must comply with the law and the Constitution, which falls by its own weight, it is an obvious thing, but to do politics is to dialogue, to do politics is to listen, to understand oneself with the other, to approach, to seek meeting points, to agree. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u9	That is something they have not done during these four years and I am afraid that they are not doing so in this new legislature either. [[A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress delivers words that are not perceived]] The two non-law propositions stress that the Constitution must be respected when it speaks of the unity of Spain, national sovereignty or equality between Spaniards - we agree - but the Constitution must also be respected as regards being a social State, the right to strike as a fundamental right and therefore not restricted to the recognition of the diversity of Spain, its languages, its cultures or the political autonomy of the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] All that and many other things are also in our Constitution and must also be respected. [[Applauds]] We believe that the solution to the territorial problems will not come from solemn, over-actuated and resistanceist proclamations such as those of the People's Parliamentary Group, but from getting to work to have a better country, and that is precisely what the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group have done. The solution to territorial problems, the best way to defend union among all citizens, is to build a better Spain from the public authorities, is to bet on a country that recognizes diversity in a sincere and proud way, is to invest in education, is to invest in health, is to democratize institutions, is to generate well-being, is that the State defends cultures and languages - all Spanish languages - as a wealth of its own, is to have a country project that clarifies each other's competences to avoid the current conflict, is to reform the Senate so that the autonomous communities feel represented and actively participate in a common project and governance, and is also a more just financing system. All this, from our point of view, is a much more useful and effective way of defending the unity of Spain. But let us be clear: beyond reaffirming constitutional principles, these non-law propositions go on one of the main political problems that we have as a country, which is the territorial crisis in Catalonia. That was referred to by the two previous speakers. Political problems are not solved exclusively, as I have already said, by claiming compliance with the law. The current situation in Catalonia requires a political solution, which we have been saying for more than four years. For the socialists, this solution goes through a constitutional reform to walk towards a federal Spain. The Socialist Party understands Spain as a plural country, as a diverse country, and that is one of the greatest wealth we have and it is a collective wealth that we should all be proud of. Today, it is true, there are many Catalans dissatisfied with the current relationship between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Some will want to go do what we do, but I am sure, we are sure in the Socialist Parliamentary Group that the majority, the vast majority of those Catalans, as well as many other Spaniards, are waiting for us to change some things to re-feel part of a common, exciting project, a project that we can continue to build together and conquer together. The best service we can do as representatives of all citizens is to flee confrontation and seek dialogue. We have to defend the law because outside the law there is only arbitrariness, but we do not share that it results in an empty and forceful rhetoric against independence, because that has already been practiced by the People's Party Government for four years and has led us here. [[Applauds]] In fact, that's the easy thing, but it's as easy as sterile and harmful. Let us go further, let us change the course because that is what the vast majority of citizens of this country are asking of us; let us defend the rule of law but then do politics, let us seek what unites us, let us address the reform of the framework of coexistence, let us address a constitutional reform among all and counting on all, because defending the reform of the Constitution today is the best way to defend the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Batet. At the turn of the group positions and, as you know, from minor to greater, Mr Martínez has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u11	Mr President, we are invited to reaffirm our commitments to Spain as a European nation, to the rule of law as a democratic framework for our public and individual freedoms and to comply with the laws as a civic guarantee of the just economic and social order, which are the pillars of our Constitution vis-à-vis those from Catalonia who, invoking a non-existent right to decide, intend to impose the will of a part of the Spanish people on all the Spaniards. On behalf of the Forum I announce the vote in favour of this transaction which, being obvious in its content, is timely and politically necessary. I do so with undisguised pride because I feel supported by the strength of our founding motto 'More Asturias, better Spain', which summarizes everything that identifies us with many and differentiates us from some in our political action. It seems to me essential to express clearly and to share our will to defend the integrity of the Spanish democratic and freedom built, since 1978, on the constitution of coexistence and equality as foundations of the democratic architecture that allows the Spaniards to be protagonists of a period that, look where it is looked at, has been admirable and is in fact recognized throughout the world. For us, the key is that in Europe the independenceist chimeras are a useless old-fashioned way of dealing with and solving the everyday problems of citizens are Madrid, Basques, Andalusians, Catalans, Galicians, Asturians or any community. Only since the responsible fulfilment of the constitutional mandates will we have equal opportunities for the Spaniards to build the future of each and every one of the autonomous communities, generate economic growth, jobs, guarantee the pensions of our elders and attend to essential public services such as education, health and social benefits. The unity of Spain is our great strength and at the same time our Constitution is the tool that provides, in a framework of diversity and autonomy without comparison in any other European country, the instruments of solidarity and territorial balance to which the vast majority of Spaniards aspire. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Now you have the floor, within the Joint Group too, Mr Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Union del Pueblo Navarro will vote in favour of this non-law proposal because Union del Pueblo Navarro is logically for the unity of Spain and for the constitutionalist union, because it is a constitutionalist party and therefore defends article 2 of the Constitution, which is the political ceiling against any identity force that goes against that unity of Spain. Union del Pueblo Navarro defends Navarra within its Foral Regime, within Spain and within Europe; it defends that singularity and defends that Foral Regime which, as your lords know, manages its ability to collect and manage its own taxes, but always from constitutional loyalty and always from solidarity with all the citizens of Spain. Because its contribution through the Navarro Concert, which is nothing other than the economic-financial instrument of the State-Navarra relationship, is always supported, in the contribution in generation of its revenues, by that solidarity - I insist - and by the equality of all Spaniards. Unión del Pueblo Navarro is a party that believes logically in the unity of Spain and defends it, because it is protected by the first additional provision that constitutes this constitutional right in addition to our Foral Regime. For the same reasons that for more than thirty-eight years the predecessors who have been in this rostrum have defended, there were in Navarre two killed by ETA, don José Javier Mújica and Tomás Caballero, for defending these same ideas, and like them so many other people who defended this unity of Spain in the face of what the segregating forces of this country want today. Navarra spoke openly last December 20 in the elections so that independence forces such as Bildu in Navarra and PNV-Geroa Bai would not be present here. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the possibility of a modification of the Constitution itself, as some political forces are speaking in this House, we will defend the elimination of that fourth transitional provision which gives the possibility of the mechanism of the annexation of Navarre to Euskadi because - we insist - Navarra is Foral and is Spanish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u14	Thank you, Mr. Alli. It's Mrs. Beitialarrangeith's turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u15	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Respect for what the majority of citizens decide is, and not another, the essence of democracy. There is no more democratic principle than this and, as such, should be a starting point and a single limit for all political formations, for those of us who aspire to be part of a people in which their people own their present and their future and participate in the big and small decisions that affect them every day to move towards a more just and equal society, in short, a people in which people are free and empowered and active in decisions of all kinds. This is the only limit to consider. On the contrary, who thirty-eight years ago laid the foundations of the so-called unity of Spain in the pillars of Francoism and wanted to close all possibilities to nations such as Galicia, Catalonia and Basque, in the face of the crisis of their model of state, they only know how to respond as they have always done: denying their peoples their capacity to decide, threatening with all the weight of the law. This Constitution, instead of guaranteeing the most basic rights, has since become a prison for the will of the people. And those same defenders of the evil so-called Transition are now ready, thirty-eight years later, to put ahead the interests of the citizens, of the people, which is their main objective and bond of union: the unity of Spain, for which they could even make a great coalition of government however much they in public insist otherwise. We therefore have two options: to wait for a democratic majority in Spain to conform to a process for Scotland or to make our own way. Catalonia has opted for this absolutely legitimate route because it is based on the majority feeling of its people and Euskal Herria, as seen, there is no other route. That is why I would like to end by telling the Catalan people that they will have our support on the path they have taken and that, given the most obvious threats of the State, you will find an ally in Euskal Herria Bildu. And along with support, Euskal Herria Bildu will continue to work to open up a constituent process of his own that will lead Euskal Herria to the constitution of his own independent state, forming social and political majorities for it, just as Catalonia is doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia. Mrs Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u17	Since the Joint Group has three minutes to defend its position and give its opinion, you will allow me to go straight to the bottom of the matter. We are discussing two non-legislative proposals, one relating to the defence of democracy, equality and union of all Spaniards and, another, - the PP has shortened it, which we appreciate because it has more impact on what really is the content - on the unity of Spain. This is very good and a lot of words and great ideas have been heard and very well expressed. Now, if we are going to what proposal is being put on the table right now, it is all about supporting the Government in office in all the initiatives it needs to take to achieve this. Well, the Government in office in no way has been a stone's thrower at the process that has become at the time we are here. All its policies have been responsible, among other things, for having the largest number of independenceists we have had since the beginning of the democratic era in this country. Therefore, we do not understand that the solution is to support the same Government that has to a large extent brought the problem that we have on the table. If what we want is to work for the defense of democracy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u18	A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u19	... the equality and union of all Spaniards, the last thing we must do is continue to support the Government in office, which for four years has caused to a large extent the issue before us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez. Finally, Mr Candela has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Montserrat, first of all, I want to make one point: many have used flags to create plots of corruption. You first and, if not, ask Rita Barbera. Mr Rivera, Mrs Montserrat, do you know how many people in Spain believe that the main problem in this country is the independence of Catalonia? 0,2 %. Only 0.2% of Spaniards consider that the main problem in Spain is the independence of Catalonia. Do you know how many people think unemployment is the main problem? 53,1 %. And corruption 18,5%, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, knowing what you know about unemployment, knowing what you know about corruption, how is it possible that the first initiative you present in this legislature is about Catalonia and not about anything else? Really, a hallucinator. [[Applauds]] And you, Mr Rivera, laughing thanks to the People's Party, to a party that only talks about Spain when things go wrong, laughing thanks to a party that only talks about Catalonia when it has something to hide, laughing thanks to a party that, in short, uses Spain for electoral purposes. How little they want this country, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rivera, you speak of equality between Spaniards, but you deny a fact; you systematically deny the fact that the Valencians are second-rate Spaniards because of historical debt and underfunding. What are we left with, Mr. Rivera, what are we left with? Ladies and gentlemen, we are prepared to talk about everything, as we have always been, but compromises today will vote no to the political pamphlet that you have presented to us. We are going to vote that we do not because we understand that there is nothing - rather, on the contrary - that offers no dialogueable solution to the problem and, finally, ladies and gentlemen, because what we are presented here today is intellectual indigence. [[Mrs Montserrat Montserrat makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mrs. Montserrat. Mr Rivera, do you believe that the Spanish Parliament can accuse more than one and a half million Catalans and Catalans of promoting a political regime - I quote literally - clearly anti-democratic and approaching the models of totalitarian states? Is this how you are going to solve the territorial question of this country? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Compromís we believe that this dance is a two-way street. We believe that a dialogue solution to the discomfort of Catalans and Catalans is necessary. We believe that it is more necessary than ever a height of sight than Mr Rajoy - who is not here today - has not had. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that a plural government is necessary to solve this problem. So, in conclusion, I am addressing Mr Sánchez - who is not here either - so that we can get to work and make a government for the Valencian woman to, among other things, give a dialogued and democratic solution to the people of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u22	Mr Esteban has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been months and months without reaching any agreement to form a government. Today there is an opportunity to make the first proposals for parliamentary debate in a complicated economic situation and in an even more complicated political situation in eastern Europe, and what do they think? Nothing more and nothing less than two very own proposals from Spain. Here they come with the usual patriotism to say that Spain is in danger and simply to reaffirm things that already come in the Constitution and to invent some other step. [[Rumors]] A lot of living Spain, a lot of Spanish nation here and there and a lot of non-law proposition, but this is still the country of Rinconete and Cortadillo; a country of pandereta in which corruption encamps to its wide, starting from the political sphere - today even news whitening 500 euros bills for Valencia -, following by the bank and the black cards and arriving at the evasion of capitals in Switzerland. A country in which the Government is refusing to be controlled by Parliament today. And they've been telling us about the Constitution and its fulfillment? Patriots of mouth and few facts, of mouth and few facts. [[Applauds]] What can two political groups look for by presenting a first initiative like this in the House? It does not move the country's love or respect for democracy, but rather to sharpen the space for left-wing groups, especially the Socialist Party, to feel pressured if they try to agree with the nationalists, because that would mean the possibility of an alternative government. [[Applauds]] As if the Spanish right had not agreed on time with Basque and Catalan nationalists, and more than once! And now comes the PSOE - Mrs Batet, you have not talked about your amendment - with an amendment that, as my fellow-chairman Mr Mikel Legarda says, has in its first two points furriel resolutions: they want to parade. Either they're afraid of stage or the PSOE is no longer what it was. Catalonia has now become the great excuse, the bread and bulls for the rest of the problems to disappear from the eyes of the citizens. They say that the Spanish nation has been forged in a process that has developed for centuries. It will be, indeed, but not all the peoples present in the Spanish State are integrated into that nation; if they were, the problem that you have in both Euskadi and Catalonia would not arise. I am not going to go into the excesses and excesses of the explanatory statement; it is enough to point out that classifying the political regime that the Catalan institutions are supposedly foreshadowing as a model of totalitarian state is absolutely absurd, apart from being free. You still do not integrate the Catalan nation and the Basque nation. Its only proposal for integration is legal hammering and, if necessary, force. Those times have passed and we are in the 21st century. In order for the theses of one or the other, of one or the other, to come forward, this must be democratic; it must be consulting citizens, it must be asking what their society wants, it must be agreeing, it must be convincing and not defeating by force, nor by the numerical force of the State. It is very significant that you continue to insist that decisions will have to be taken by the Spanish people as a whole. If the Constitution has to be amended, it will have to be; but what the Catalans think will have to be said by the Catalans. What is the will of the people to form or not a new State? Catalans or Basques will have to say that, if necessary. Where have you seen that he is a different subject from the one who is going to self-determine the one who manifests himself in a vote? East Timor? No, no, In Slovakia, Slovenia, perhaps Norway? Have you seen yourself at German reunification, in Quebec or Scotland? No, no, Give me just one example of the exercise of the right to decide by democratic means in which the whole State has voted. There's none. Where do these three-to-four theories come from? By the way, Mr Rivera, you say that invoking the right of self-determination in a democratic country is impossible; that is the very proof that it is not a democratic country. It seems, then, that the United Kingdom and Canada are worse than the country of Al Assad, it seems that they are more than the country of Al Assad. [[applause.-Mrs. Girauta Vidal and Rivera Díaz make negative gestures]] Yes, sir! Or also Germany, which reunified on the basis of self-determination. Mr. Rivera, read a little more. [[Laughs.-Mr. Rivera Díaz utters words that are not perceived]] They will have to vote for those citizens who are recognized by law as Catalan citizens and, under the current legislation, they are the ones who have an administrative neighbourhood there. Mrs Montserrat began her speech with a beatific, almost sensitive circle, I would say. Moreover, there has been a moment when I was reminded of the San Basilio Paloma Together. [[Laughter]] But then you made your message as clear as Mr. Rivera did. In short, the message they send us with their proposals is clear. They tell us to the nationalists: You are Spanish, you are all Spanish and this is tied and well bound - what does this sound like, by the way -. As Mr Gómez de la Serna said - once a very usual spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party on these issues and who is now, things of life, in the seats of the Group of the European People's Party - they abandon all hope, they have nothing to do. Will they not pretend that a party like mine, which did not vote in favour of the Spanish Constitution, will vote in favour of these non-legislative proposals? Oh, sorry, it's just that for a moment I've forgotten that what they're looking for is not to integrate or agree, but to impose, to make clear who's in charge. And you will remain very calm and comfortable with your approved GNP! In their conscience it will be their duty and they will say: the Basque nationalists and Catalans have already learned that they can be left-wing, right-wing or centre-wing; left-wing or ambidiest; zambos or estavados, but what they are not and will never be, no matter how much they wish it most and democratically, is Basque or Catalan to dry or have their own state. Well, if that's what they wanted to make clear, I have to tell you at this point who Peli Saligei was to finish my speech. Peli Saligei was a gudari of the Basque Nationalist Party, naturally I think of Deba and enrolled in the Saseta battalion during the Civil War. He was arrested by the Francoist army, the raised army, and had to go through many prisons in the state, starting with the Dueso, Larrinaga, Burgos and others. He met with others in prison who had sentenced him to death after a farce of trial in which the judge read the newspaper and the defender, rather than defend, accused him. They waited every night, month after month, for the jailer's call without knowing who they would take to the wall on that occasion; they did not know what day they were going to execute them. He had not committed any crime, murder, rape or theft; he had simply, like his companions, been loyal to his ideas and had fought to defend them. One day a Franco-Curite arrived at the prison to preach, and approached where the death row, mostly Basque nationalists, were. After looking at them as unthankful as they were to their jailers - who, by the way, killed them with hunger and lice - he said to them, "Look, I do not come to convince you that you are good Christians and Catholics, because I already know that you are good Christians and Catholics; I have come here to learn to love Spain because you have to love Spain, because you want it or not, you are Spanish. And then, among the death row, a loud voice was heard screaming, "What do you believe that?" And that was Peli Saligei. And today my group, the Basque Nationalist Party, wants to remind Peli Salegi and his colleagues because in their cry of rebellion we feel represented: believe that! From this rostrum we want to pay tribute to those people, to those Gudaris who suffered persecution simply because they were democrats and defend their ideas. We will vote against your proposals and the Socialist addition with great conviction. Let's see if they learn at once, that not by much preaching, like the 'curita', who is not allowed to talk and decide about his freedom, since imposition, is going to convince anyone like that. We shall vote against it and be very convinced of it. I'm sure Sagegi and his colleagues would have liked it that way. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u24	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. I give the floor to Mr Homs, for the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I have a somewhat strange feeling, for the following reason. [[A Member of Parliament: Why?]] I'm wondering why, and it's actually a rhetorical question, if you want. Mrs Batet said earlier, and I think she was right, that this activity of the ordinary House could have been inaugurated by debating today at least more urgent matters, and that it affects, for example, the whole of Europe, as it is an issue that affects us all, and in what way, and it is up to us all, which is that of refugees. But you have chosen the agenda today in this plenary and set the framework. And in that sense - that is why I say I have a strange feeling - I want to thank the People's Party and the Citizens, because said with all modesty, this is already our first victory; I don't know if they realize it. We already know that today arithmetically - we are not so short - we will not win, we would miss more! Nor will we ever ask you to support Catalonia's independence. We've never asked him to. We only ask that we recognize what is voted on in Catalonia, in the people of Catalonia. And this hasn't happened. For example, the people of Catalonia voted ten years ago on a statute that was then dealt with by the Constitutional Court, with which what the people of Catalonia voted - by the way, only the people of Catalonia - was then altered. You will say that legally, I will not enter into these discussions, but in any case the content of what the people of Catalonia voted for was then altered. Legally, okay, but the content was altered, by the way by a Constitutional Court that was anything but a court... I'm not going to qualify it, but you know it perfectly well. They come here now and the first debate that puts us on the table I thank you, because we have already won the battle of the framework. Moreover, today they will show, and in what way, that the majority of MEPs in Catalonia are not in this kind of position. We will obviously have our differences, I am not going to deny them, but we are certainly not in these positions that you want to impose, at least with regard to Catalonia, with which I have, I insist, this somewhat strange feeling, because we are being offered a debate, we are being offered to vote on a content that we do not share, since we see it as anachronistic. You have basically justified yourselves today, and it is that of the non-small excuse, manifest accusation, or otherwise more commonly said, tell me what you presume and I will tell you what is missing. Today you, in a symbolic way - you are going to win that vote, Mr Rivera, of course - are certifying what is already the end of a constitutional framework that surely no longer serves in Catalonia politically. And you confuse what is democratic will, a feeling of freedom, a desire for freedom, with what is today a de facto legal framework of imposition at this time. In these we are - I insist that with our surprise, because it does not cease to be a certain surprise - on your initiative. You appeal to the parents of the Constitution, whose opinion is fully respectable; I would not say otherwise, but I sincerely believe that you do not realize to what extent the children of these parents of the Constitution have already changed their chip, which are already within another logic, which is that of a deeply rooted democracy. When you come here and try to give a message of what is the limit of things, of what is the existing legality to which you must obey without even questioning it, you do not realize that this way you will also overcome a time more, as you have done for a long time ago, but that you are not convincing. In this sense - and I will also tell you from the heart - I thank you, because these kinds of initiatives help us. The arguments behind these initiatives help many people in Catalonia to see that the path of freedom, the path of independence of Catalonia, which is now in this framework of debate, and which is not yet completed today, will be possible thanks to the will of the vast majority of Catalans and Catalans, and also thanks to their political action, that of the Citizens' Lords and that of the People's Party. I'm going to give you a data for reflection, if you are able to do it - I'm sure you are. Today they put these two resolutions to the vote, Members of the People's Party and Citizens' Party, and 29 MEPs from Catalonia are going to say no and 18 yes. I only ask you to listen to where the majorities are - at least in Catalonia - and to act accordingly. [[Applauds]] It's over, Mr. President. Today you have the strength that Francoism also had between 1975 and 1978. [[Rumors and Protests]] Yeah, yeah, man, yeah. And everything was done - they said then - in the name of the law. [[Rumors]] You have the strength and you can overcome by using this strength, but you are not going to convince and you are not convincing, because the path of freedom and commitment to freedom can more than the strength that you have right now, that you can overcome, but not convince. [[Minister of Justice in Mergers, Catalá Polo: No; the votes of the Spanish]] Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u26	Thank you, Mr. Homs. Mr Tardà has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, but especially and particularly of the People's Party, your concept of unity in Spain is clear. In fact, it has been clear since its founder, Manuel Fraga Iribarne, in 1967, stated that he was proud, that he was proud of the occupation of Catalonia by Philip IV, for the victory of Philip V over the Catalans, for the occupation of Barcelona in 1939, and was willing to do the same again if required. He also left it said Gregorio Peces-Barba in 2011 in public demonstrations. Gregorio Peces-Barba said: I don't know how many times Barcelona had to be bombed. I think this time it will be resolved without the need to bomb it. Or perhaps you tell us about the concept of unity of Spain that reminded us a few days ago Juan Carlos I, in a program that was broadcast on French public television, in which he remembered and said, textually, that Franco had told him - I quote textually -: The only thing I ask him is to preserve the unity of Spain. What unit are you talking about? The one who in his name caused a million deaths? Do you tell us about the unity of Spain - yes, yes - when the Francoists withdrew thousands of Republican exiles their status as Spanish nationals, in order and effect that they could be confined in the Nazi extermination camps? Is this your conception of the unity of Spain? You tell us about a unit based on lies. You make believe - and you have believed your own lie - that Catalonia voluntarily joined Spain, obviating that it was imposed by annexation. Do you remember that the only institution common to the kingdoms of Castile and Aragon during the reign of the Catholic Kings was the created Holy Inquisition, in order to proceed to ethnic cleansing? Don't you remember the union of arms in the days of Philip IV? Don't you remember the decrees of the new plant and the right of conquest? Have you forgotten all this? Are they amnesiacs of all this? You are living in a great contradiction. Look, even if their falsehood was true, if the Catalans have freely joined Spain, we can freely march, right? Then you are installed in a perverse loop intellectually very reductionist; but it is not so. You appeal to a supposed unity of Spain that is not that of today, but that of three hundred or five hundred years ago. Do you call us nationalists, when you consider the map you drew by force centuries ago unremovable? Do you consider us nationalists, when you consider it unacceptable that it is the will of Catalan citizens to decide today? Do you consider us nationalists, when the threat of weapons against a peaceful and pacifist people like Catalan appears in your Constitution, in case you choose independence? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of Citizens, and unfortunately - I say this with the party heart - of the Socialist Party, the units are in any case built from below, from the freedom to decide; they are not imposed. You who claim to be liberal, why don't you do as Mr. Trudeau, the father of the current Prime Minister of Canada, who at the time recast Canada constitutionally? But how did you recast it? Based on equality between the English and French. And today, for example, in Vancouver, three thousand kilometres from Quebec, the French language is official. This is re-founding a state from below. You speak of using with determination and firmness - see that you put it to the vote today - all the mechanisms to prevent the right to decide of the people of Catalonia. In fact, they're already doing it. Municipal offices in Berga, Vic, Celrá, compañeros de la CUP, Joan Coma, Montserrat Venturós, Dani Cornellá, even our former president Artur Mas, all of them will have to appear before the courts for defending the democratic mandate. But you are meeting and you will find the dignity - in fact you will meet and you are already meeting - of the democratic representatives of the people of Catalonia, with their firmness, with their determination. In fact, in the coming months, perhaps in the coming years the example of peaceful resistance of Rosa Parks will be very present, do not hesitate, in Catalonia. His tragedy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of citizens, and unfortunately of the Socialist Party, is that in order to maintain his concept of unity they must face democracy. Catalonia will be what we decide: the citizens of Catalonia, whether or not they are independent. This will be decided by us, Mr Rivera, Mr Girauta, Mrs Chacon, Mrs Montserrat, myself. We will decide by the Catalans and you to respect it, because democracy is unbeatable, and because if you attack us and our freedoms, you will attack your own, and your societies will not allow it. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Democracy is unbeatable, to see if they understand it, democracy is unbeatable. Repeat with me: democracy is unbeatable! [[Applauds]] Finally, a few words in Catalan, Mr President. [[He ends his speech in Catalan, whose text, which he delivers to the 'Diario de Sesiones', says the following: Ciutadans de Catalunya ask for your support for the decisions of the Parliament of Catalonia. I support the Government of Catalonia and support the political forces that, whether independent or not, are in favour of the exercise of the right to decide. Then let them win.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u28	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. The Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group has decided to divide its time into two interventions. For the first of them, Mr Errejón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with a disconcerting text which tells us that the law must be complied with. Proclaiming in the seat of the Legislature that the laws must be complied with is like that of a dish being a dish, an obvious cast against an imaginary adversary. Congress serves precisely to reform the laws. We cannot avoid our task as a legislative power by throwing a problem on the roof of judges that we do not dare to face politically. Mrs Montserrat, you have already tried this and it has not worked out well. We say yes to the unity of Spain, of a Spain that is a country of countries, we say yes to a plural, rich and diverse Spain, which remains united when it looks forward. Even more, we say yes to a living Parliament, capable of facing reality and not looking elsewhere. We say yes to the Constitution, but we commit ourselves to working so that this is not a Chinese vase, hard but at the very bottom fragile, untouchable and merely decorative. Because it has to be practical and flexible, because we have to fit everyone in it, as we are now and not as we were forty years ago. Few doubt today that the social contract that allowed us to live together with shared certainty is broken, and it has not been the ordinary people who broke it. With regard to the model of State, the ruling of the Constitutional Court appealed by the People's Party against the Statute of Catalonia ten years ago collapsed the mechanisms of territorial balance in Spain, and of those muds, these muds. With regard to social rights, the true heart of the coexistence pact, it is difficult to maintain that guarantees and security remain for ordinary people. That country agreement, the true guarantee of unity between Spaniards, established that it had almost the same opportunities as those born in a humble neighborhood as those born in a privileged neighborhood, whether this Madridn, Andalusian or Valencian. This is the best legacy of humble people, of our grandmothers and of our mothers, and of that legacy we are deeply proud. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today in Barcelona, life expectancy in El Raval is eight years lower than life expectancy in Sant Gervasi. In Madrid, the difference in life expectancy between one neighbor in Orcasur and another in the Salamanca neighborhood is more than seven years. And this is what is separating the people, the Spaniards: the terrible inequality for reasons of origin between the winners of the crisis - the least -, and the losers of the crisis - the most -. That is why for us to defend Spain has to do with defending its people, mainly to defend them from their main problems: evictions, unemployment, precariousness or cuts. [[Applauds]] There is an old very Spanish tradition among the bad politicians of using Catalonia as an excuse not to face the real problems of our country. Mr. Rajoy, absent today, has a doctorate in this custom and Mr. Rivera is not going to lag behind him. For his part, on the forty-eight occasions when he intervened in Parliament over the last few years, he never, not once, questioned the Government of the Generalitat, never, on a single issue of social content. Where has this immobilism led us? According to the barometer of the Center for Studies of Opinion, the Catalan CIS, 42 % of those who declare themselves new independenceists is not considered independent of all life, but is - I quote in text - by the attitude and comments of the central government towards Catalonia. That is, almost half of the new independenceists are thanks to the last legislature of the People's Party. Is this the best way to work for the unity of Spain? We believe that the same recipes give the same results, and that the fundamental problem of the People's Party and Citizens, united today - and we will surely see them united on many more occasions - is that they have no proposal for Catalonia. You know that with your policies they manufacture independenceists and campaign those from Catalonia who intend to face this unilaterally, without listening to the other half. No wonder, there is an interest that they share above all: to hide the problems that worry people the most, the corruption that structurally rots to some of the traditional parties, that 3% of bites in Valencia, Madrid or Barcelona, the 48 billion euros that go away every year because of the black hole of corruption, to hide the suffering of our people for the aggressions to the public, for the 13 million that are at risk of social exclusion, which is what is breaking the unity between Spaniards. We don't hide our country's problems, none. [[Applauds]] As for the one we are dealing with here, let us assume that a good Constitution only lasts if it adapts. Therefore, because we say yes to fraternity and the future, we will vote no to this umpteenth attempt to instrumentalize Catalonia to cover up the problems of Spain, we will vote no to the irresponsible politicians of Madrid or Barcelona using Catalonia or Madrid as an excuse for their irresponsibility, we will vote no to this empty gesture, saying that the unity of Spain is built day by day, from the recognition of plurinationality, fraternity and seduction. This Spain is deluding and not that of frantism.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u30	Mr. Errejón, I remind you that you are eating your partner's time.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u31	I ended up in one sentence. We have a historical responsibility - and here we look at the Socialist Party and Mr Sánchez, who is also absent today - for our country to build a common, shared and fraternal path we must not fear the voice of the people, we must not fear the ballot boxes, we must move away from the pyromaniacs, we must build a new Spain that recognizes its wealth, its diversity, its plurinationality, that one that is able to envision, a shared homeland that we feel proud of because it leaves no one behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u32	Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u33	We are faced with a debate which is already very curious: this morning this debate was presented separately. There was a non-law proposal from the Citizens' Group and a non-law proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group, and they have decided that they have to go together. I do not know if it is because of this wonderful idea of the unity of destiny in the universal, I hope not, but, after this debate, I have discovered another change: that perhaps it is not the unity of destiny in the universal that encourages this passion for the defense of the unity of Spain, but it is the unity of destiny towards the great coalition, given what the PSOE presents as an amendment, which in reality is not an amendment, but rather a endorsement of what is already said. In fact, other things are also surprising, especially in the case of Citizens - which is what I am going to devote basically to this intervention, because that is what I had prepared - who insist in their non-law proposal to the People's Party Government to be attentive, to act without delay in the face of any possible sovereignist or independenceist dissent that occurs in Catalonia, and one is surprised by that. I believe that the People's Party cannot be blamed for not being attentive, I do not know what else it can be asked in that case. The minister tells me that rightly, which is true, that they have done everything possible, and beyond, to create the most serious institutional crisis in the history of democracy between Catalonia and Spain, and it seems that Citizens want to go towards this great coalition and that the Socialist Party welcomes this amendment. They also appeal in this non-legislative proposal to the outcome of the elections on 20 December in Catalonia. They say: on December 20 in Catalonia they won the options that defended this proposal. I have bad news for Citizens: they lost the December 20 elections in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] They didn't just lose them, they got fifths! And those who accompany you in your non-law proposition are the sixth! Is that the great proposal that emerges from Catalonia on December 20? [[Applauds]] On December 20 in Catalonia several options - quite - stood ahead of you. The one who won, the majority, was called In Comú Puem and the message was equality, freedom, which is built from the fraternity of the peoples. [[Applauds]] And that fraternity of the peoples is built not from a homogeneous and empty idea that you have of Spain, but - and here is the key - that this fraternity builds equality and solidarity because it is the one that allows there to be a left-wing government. [[Applauds]] And that fraternity is built - I'm already finishing; well, I've had one minute; I've been quick even - assuming the right to be able to decide everything, and in the case of Catalonia, 80% of the citizens of Catalonia support the right to decide, they support the referendum. [[Protests]] That is the message of fraternity to build an alternative for Spain. That is the message of brotherhood that you refuse, that you falsify, that you manipulate. When they talk about the referendum, they say: no, the Constitution is broken. They say no... and one day we'll talk about the right to self-determination, because it's also very funny what Mr. Rivera said. But we have a man like Rubio Llorente; we have a man like Herrero de Miñon; we have a man like Pérez Royo. Independentists? Are these people radical independenceists? What do these say? They say you can make a referendum, in that book that you teach, that you teach constantly, but you should read it better. And you should read to the constitutionalists who explain it. [[Applauds]] And you too should read it; but it is not necessary or necessary to read it, in the case of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party you just need to listen: listen to Núria Parlon, of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, who has perfectly explained to you that what we ask can be done. [[Applauds]] And now I'm done. The fundamental problem is the non-acceptance of a reality, which is true - and was said by a spokesman before me - which exists in a growing way, and which is the future of this country, which is the acceptance of plurinationality. They fill their mouths with articles 1 and 2 of the Constitution; they quote and quote and quote. I'm going to bring you in other dates; other dates from those parents in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u34	No, no, no; not many, because they have exhausted the time between the two more than in a leftover way.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u35	Just a moment. Just one date, please. They talk about articles 1 and 2; I will read you a quote from Peces-Barba, when he talks about why article 2: The existence of Spain as a nation does not exclude the existence of nations within Spain. That you will never dare to say in public. And that's why they're past and they're not future. Another quote from another parent in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u36	No, no, no, Mr Domènech, you indicated that you were going to say an appointment; time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u37	A whole reality is accepted: that Spain is a plurinational State. And so... I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u38	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u39	I'm done. That you fill your mouth and bring proposals here, and the more grandiose and the more you fill your mouth by shouting the unity of Spain, the more you undo it with your daily practice. There's got to be an end to the frenzy. Thank you. [[Mr Rivera Díaz asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u40	Mr Rivera, as we have remained at the Spokesman's Meeting this morning, there is no turn-off when it comes to setting a position on this.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u41	On a point of order, President. I do not ask you to reply; it is by falsehood and by clarifying these things.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u42	Let's see. We are not going to start with this in the debates because then we never end up. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u43	Mr President, to clarify a falsehood in the House vis-à-vis Members. Article 71. I'm asking you for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u44	Which one was it?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u45	If you leave me, I'll explain. But allow me. You're the boss.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u46	Yeah, but just the enunciation. No, I don't want him to intervene later. I want the statement of what falsehood has been. Point.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u47	Yeah. Mr Errejón said that on 48 occasions I have never defended any social issues. And then explain what Mr. Domènech said.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u48	This isn't worth it. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u49	President!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u50	No, no. As far as allusions are concerned, Mr Rivera, and I am also commenting on this for all Members of Parliament, the speaking time is called for at the time when the allusion is committed or occurs. [[Rumors]] Point. That has not been the case and we will therefore move on to what is right at the moment, which is to ask the proposing groups whether they accept the amendment that has been tabled. I thought I understood from the debate that there is a compromise that is accepted by both the Citizens' Group and the People's Group. [[Rumors]] Don't you? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u51	They have not tabled any amendments and we want the non-legislative proposal to be put to the vote in its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u52	And they do not accept the amendment tabled, therefore? [[Rumors]] It is appropriate to ask whether or not the amendment is accepted. The debate has dealt with a compromise, which has not yet actually reached the Bureau. It was in case the proponents knew her. If you do not know her, the question is: Does the People's Group accept the amendment? [[Denials]] No, no, Does the Citizens' Group accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u53	The Citizens' Group accepts the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and, as it is going to vote in favour of the proposal by the People's Group, it is no longer necessary to accept its amendment, because it would be redundant. Thank you. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the recovery of the Toledo Pact, as an expression of political consent, and the social dialogue, in order to agree on measures to ensure dignified and strengthened penalties THE VIABILITY OF THE PUBLIC PENSION SYSTEM. [[File number 162/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u54	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to restore the Toledo Pact, as an expression of political consensus, and social dialogue, in order to agree on measures to ensure decent pensions and to strengthen the viability of the public pension system. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor for seven minutes, Mrs Rodríguez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that I am very honoured that the first initiative that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is defending in this House is the reconstruction of the Toledo Pact and the dignity of our pension system, which is the same as defending the security and dignity of the more than 8.5 million men and women, many of them widows, elderly and ill... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u56	Wait a minute, Mrs. Rodriguez. Please remain silent, and those who have to run through Parliament to the outside who do so also in silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. He said that defending the Toledo Pact and the dignity of our pension system is as much as defending the security and dignity of those 8.5 million people, women and men, many of them widows and widows, older and sick people living on a pension, although it may be more just to say that they have worked hard to live on a pension today and have been the great heroes of this crisis, because many of the families in our country have endured the lack of work and the cut-off of unemployment benefits because they were grandparents and grandmothers and their pensions to feed their children and grandchildren. It is the first initiative of this legislature of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; an initiative on the defence of pensions; an initiative on people, on people's problems. It is important the homeland, ladies and gentlemen, very important, but, beyond empty and sometimes hollow rhetoric, the homeland is the people, our people, their problems, their desires, their expectations, their hopes. [[Applauds]] That is really important for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and that will be - I dare say on behalf of all my colleagues - what marks our political work in this House: to bring here the voice and the problems of citizenship; to pursue here the improvement of the quality of life of our compatriots. That's being patriotic, not talking about the unity of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the public social security system - and, within it, the pension system - is the most important piece of our welfare state, as a form of solidarity and redistributive action guaranteeing social cohesion. Our public pension system - and I remarry the public - is a great pact between generations, between active and retired workers, for the defense of their mutual well-being; a system that we have built among all, but which has been threatened - I would dare say that seriously threatened - since 2012 by the policies of the People's Party. For starters, pensions have not risen as much as their lordships of the People's Party say. We are repeatedly accused of having frozen pensions for a year, and we were able to make a mistake, but the amount of minimum pensions rose by more than 53% in seven years and with the People's Party the rise has not reached 6% in five years. And in general, say what your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party say, in this legislature pensions have only risen by 3.75 %, which means 33 euros in four years in an average pension that does not reach 900 euros. The People's Party has polished itself - and forgive me for saying so with this expression - in addition to the Social Security Reserve Fund. As far as the legislature goes, the People's Party has taken more than EUR 47.2 billion out of the pension pool, to which we must add - although they are more opaque, ladies and gentlemen, but we must add them - the more than EUR 8.6 billion that has been eroded from the mutual funds. In total, and I will say this with all the figures, ladies and gentlemen, it has been 55,822 million euros that the People's Party has taken from the public coffers of the pensioners. In an easy way, for all of us to understand, the People's Party has spent 6,560 euros on each of our country's pensioners. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who, after more than four years of talking about the socialist heritage, should also remember this heritage: the Socialists have left, after having ruled four years of severe crisis, more than EUR 66.8 billion in the Reserve Fund; you will leave - because I hope that is so, that you will leave it after having ruled four years of severe crisis - just over EUR 32,000 million. In four years, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, more than half of the Reserve Fund has been spent, and the independent authority you created when you say that you did not rescue us has just warned us that if we follow at this rate and do not change social security policies, the Reserve Fund, the well of all pensioners will be exhausted in less than two years. You will surely tell me, ladies and gentlemen, that you have always said this: there is no money to pay the pensions, and I will answer you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, how you will get them with your employment policy. I will give you an example: between January and November 2015, social security contributors have risen by almost 4 % and yet social security contributions have risen by just over 1 %. Do you know why this dysfunction occurs? Because a model of precarious employment - a model of employment based on wage devaluation, a model on which illegal overtime is not controlled, a model on which fraud in temporary recruitment is not controlled - and an employment policy based on exemption from social security contributions does not fill the pension fund. It is their employment policy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which is putting pensions at risk. If we do not change among all the employment policies of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, we run the certain risk that we cannot have pensions in the future. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have an inheritance, but you have some records to remember: you have the record of having signed more than 17 million precarious contracts in one year; you have the record of having lowered wages by more than 3% in a legislature; you have the shameful record of having more than 2.5 million poor workers and of having made social security deficit every four years of its mandate for the first time in the history of democracy. This, ladies and gentlemen, you have done alone, you alone; no one has helped you, you have been alone. And perhaps the worst of all is that they have despised the political and social pact that the Toledo Pact means. In 1995 our country's political and social forces decided that social security policies had to be on the sidelines of the partisan struggle, that our country's pension model was so important for shaping our coexistence model that it had to be based on large social agreements rather than on large political agreements, and you, ladies and gentlemen, have broken that consensus and weakened the Toledo Pact to the extreme. Nothing they have done in pensions, nothing they have done in social security has had the consensus of no political force. Everything they have done on pensions, everything has been purely imposed on pensioners and on the citizens of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a new time - and I shall end now - a time of political and social pluralism that invites more than ever - and I say this sincerely - to the consensus on building the basic pillars of our coexistence and democracy. The pension system is undoubtedly one of them, not only because more than 8.5 million people in our country live from it today, but because we will all live from it promptly, sometimes sooner than later. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you from this rostrum to begin by rebuilding the Toledo Pact as a sign of identity of this new time. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. It is now the turn of the groups that have tabled amendments. Firstly, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to make my first speech in this House, on behalf of the Citizens' Group, to show our support for the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal to restore the spirit of consensus and dialogue that inspired the Toledo Pact signed 20 years ago. This same demand that the Socialist Group makes in its GNP is reflected in the agreement that we have signed with the Socialist Party for a reformist and progressing government. It is urgent and necessary for us, as on so many other State issues, to set aside political short-termism and to address together, on dialogue and wisdom, the enormous challenges facing the future of our welfare State. In this speech, I will address three issues which I consider to be of utmost priority. Firstly, I would like to try to raise awareness - or at least help to do so - of the enormous demographic challenges we face. Secondly, I would like to stress that in order to address the issue of pensions and the sustainability of the welfare state, it is essential to address other absolutely necessary structural reforms in our country. Thirdly, I will highlight some of the principles that would inspire for us those reforms that we consider necessary. Spain is ageing, and it is doing so at a faster pace than the countries in our environment. We have one of the highest life expectancy in the world, but also one of the lowest fertility rates in developed countries. For citizens to get an idea of how our demography has been transformed, it is good to stop to analyze some data. For example, while in 1919, when the sixty-five years of retirement were established, only one in three citizens reached that age, today one in three citizens reaches the age of eighty-nine. That is, the sixty-five years of 1919 are today's eighty-nine years. At the same time, there are fewer and fewer children in Spain; the fertility rate is the second lowest of the 28 countries in the European Union. Why do we have such a low fertility rate? The main reason is the enormous precariousness of our labour market. With such levels of rotation and temporality as we have, with 7 million workers who fail to reach the interprofessional minimum wage despite being working, because they spend their lives entering and leaving the labour market, it is impossible to make vital decisions such as emancipation or having children. Likewise, as we have insisted a lot since Citizens, there is a huge problem of conciliation in Spain that makes it very difficult to decide to have children; if they cannot reconcile their family and work life, young families decide not to have children. The result of such low fertility rates is that our intergenerational pension balance is going to be very difficult to defend. If we want the purchasing power of pensions to be maintained in the future, as this GNP says, we must be brave and make reforms that change our way of working and producing. With 90% of temporary work and a structural unemployment rate that is twice the EU average, social security expenditure will simply remain higher than income. As much as we want to look elsewhere, we need to address far-reaching reforms in our labour market to improve the stability of our jobs and to allow young people to have more decent working lives, allowing them to reconcile work and personal life. Only then will Social Security be able to generate the income it needs. As much as we want to look elsewhere, we must also address profound reforms in our education system and in our training policies that allow us to be more productive and to be more productive for more years. Promises such as reducing the retirement age to 60 only serve to generate frustration, deception and mistrust in politicians. We don't do anyone a favor by promising policies that we can't finance. I repeat, we are not doing anyone a favor by promising policies that we cannot finance. Right now in Greece we are seeing the dramatic consequences of irresponsible policies with regard to pensions. Tsipras, after promising for years to the contrary, has just cut very significantly the income of pensioners. If our goal is to continue to offer decent and just pensions, try to maintain their purchasing power and prevent our pension system from collapsing, we need to talk and do so about consensus, seeking reasonable solutions. That necessary dialogue in the Toledo Pact must be based on two essential principles. Firstly, the system needs greater flexibility. Those who want to work longer - let's think of writers, teachers, doctors - should be able to retire later. We must imitate our northern partners, allowing greater flexibility to combine work with pension. Secondly, we need a more transparent system in which pensioners can know what income they will have when they retire and can make savings decisions throughout their working lives. In short, Spain ages at full speed and, following the current trends, we are moving towards a world in which for each retired person we will have, instead of two, as we had until recently, only one to sustain it. Let us stop looking elsewhere, let us speak and feel the foundations of the future welfare state we want. Promising impossible things is not good and it is not good to keep your arms crossed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u60	Thank you, Mr. Roldán. As an amending group, Mrs Spain has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it says this non-legislative proposal that the Toledo Pact must be reconstituted, and I say that it has been very alive in the previous legislature and that all the reforms that the People's Party has made have been following the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, as we will now see. The Mutual Law, the sustainability factor, the revaluation index, the maternity supplement, the regime for female domestic workers, part-time or early retirement, all of these reforms have been debated to the full in the Toledo Pact. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing more contrary to the spirit of the Toledo Pact than, without it having met, to bring to plenary a parliamentary debate to use as a confrontation. We have tabled an amendment precisely to start working on the comprehensive report that the Government is going to submit and we do not understand how the Socialist Group does not accept it. Nice way to regain consensus in the Toledo Pact by not accepting an amendment that involves starting work on the basis of that comprehensive report. Let's split it up. You talk about the revaluation index, about regaining purchasing power. I have to tell you that thanks to the new revaluation rate, pensioners have gained purchasing power. It is false what the explanatory statement says, that 200 million per year of purchasing power has been earned and 800 million per year of pharmaceutical co-payment has been spent. It's absolutely false. In 2013 alone, pensioners have earned more than 1.3 billion euros in purchasing power. They have won it in 2013, in 2014, in 2015 and possibly in 2016, because pensions have always risen above the CPI; by the way, 16 billion euros of pharmaceutical co-payment, because the deficit of 16 billion euros that you left in health had to be covered. This index also assumes that no one will ever be able to freeze pensions again, because the biggest loss that pensioners in this country have had was the freezing made by socialists when the CPI was close to 3%, more than EUR 2 billion. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the new revaluation rate follows the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. Recommendation 2 mentions the possibility of using other revaluation rates used by countries in our environment. Why do we want a Toledo Pact and some recommendations if, when we follow them, you ignore them and vote against them? Tell the pensioners the truth. Tell them that if we had applied the previous law, that of the CPI, they would have lost. Today, with the CPI at least 0.8 % and an increase of 0.25 %, pensioners already have more than 1 % of purchasing power gain. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, if anyone has ever broken the Toledo Pact, it was the Socialist Government that froze the pensions, without consensus in the Toledo Pact, and increased the retirement age from sixty-five to sixty-seven years, without consensus in the Toledo Pact. Mrs. Rodriguez, is that about being patriotic and looking at people? To freeze pensions and raise the retirement age, which resulted in a 20 % reduction in pensions? Then you talk about the social security deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to tell you that the first time you shipped to Spain for excessive deficit was in 2009. You have the dubious honor of leaving Social Security in deficit every time you rule. We are trying to reduce the deficit in social security gradually - and we are getting it - but those red numbers are only reduced when jobs are created. I remind you that you have sent 3.5 million people to unemployment and now, with the People's Party government, more than one million jobs have been created. And don't talk to me about precarious employment, Mrs Rodríguez, because four out of ten new indefinite jobs in the euro area are Spanish jobs. [[Rumors]] You also say that we have depressed incomes. Nothing further from reality. We have completed the separation of funding sources, which is the first recommendation of the Toledo Pact. That means putting on the table EUR 13 billion that go to Social Security to pay the non-contributory part. You did the opposite: you charged €40 billion of improper expenditure to the system. Then they talk about the Reserve Fund. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u62	A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u63	The Reserve Fund is being given to pensioners at the time they need it the most. It is being used for what was created, to pay pensions. However, you used the Reserve Fund we do not know for what. There were €15 billion of Social Security surplus that did not go to the Reserve Fund and did not go to pay pensions because they froze them. Therefore, the loser of the Toledo Pact was the socialist Government. I'll tell you what. It is true that pensioners have been the breadwinner of many families, that they have gone wrong and that they have helped many children and grandchildren, but of course pensioners are worse if they are frozen than if they are raised, they are worse if they are unemployed than if jobs are created, they are worse if they charge improper expenses to the system than if resources are provided to the system. Therefore, gentlemen of the left, do not demagogy me. I will give you a very clear data for the sustainability of the system. For every pensioner who entered the system when you ruled three workers came out of it; now for every pensioner who entered the system we have five new workers. That's sustainability. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the reforms of the People's Party have followed the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, and whether it has ever been broken has been when pensions were frozen without consensus and when the retirement age was raised. I'm done, Mr. President. Widespread hand, dialogue, consensus and joint work; that is what we want in the Toledo Pact and what is in our amendment, which we do not understand why it has not been accepted. Let's work together for all the pensioners. Put your shoulder up and let's get to work. Otherwise, it's going to look like you're on a permanent election campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u64	The groups now have a position and Mr Alli has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Union of the Navarro People will logically support this non-law proposal. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it is only by reading the explanatory statement that it is at least unfair what they have written there. I do not want to demagogy at all about what he puts in that explanatory statement, but the greatest cut-off to the pensioners of this country in the modern history of Spain was made with Mr Zapatero's socialist government. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Navarro People's Union, I want to say that we have had 86 days and we are not yet able to agree to move this country forward and to give precedence to the general interest over personal or private or party interests. The challenges facing the country at the moment are great, and they will allow me to define them in a simplistic way as the four die. The first is debt, the high debt that this country has, both in the public sphere, where it reaches almost 100% of the annual gross domestic product, and in the private sphere. The second is the deficit, which, while it is true that with the policies of the last four years it has been reduced thanks to the management of the revenue and expenditure of the public coffers, must be one of the great objectives that this country must have. You don't have to spend more than you collect, ladies and gentlemen. The third is unemployment, and I would like to stress this again from this rostrum: none of the 350 Members we sit in this House, none of them, we bill, we generate VAT and much less we generate employment. It is the enterprise, it is the entrepreneur and it is the self-employed who really generates employment, and it is they who we have to support with policies that encourage the generation of quality jobs and jobs. That's where we'll agree. Finally, we have a great demographic challenge. The Member of the Citizen Group has already said this in the presentation of the data: the gradual and progressive ageing of Spanish society, as sociological experts say, will lead us to a population debacle, which will entail consequences in the socio-health field and, logically, in the area of the pension system. That is where we need to regain strength and achieve major state pacts on the welfare and sustainability of pensions for retired people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u66	Thank you, Mr. Alli. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u67	Access to a pension that allows for a decent life is a right that must be guaranteed by the public authorities; something that is far from being a reality. This is due to the reforms carried out in recent years, and this situation must be reversed, but let us not be fooled, to return to the situation of 2011 also does not make it possible. Just look at the data: half of the pensions are less than EUR 700 a month and about 5 million pensioners are ill-living with incomes below the official poverty line. This situation worsens in the case of women, who on average are receiving 40 per cent lower pensions. Speaking of widow's pensions means poverty, if not extreme poverty, and I do not want to forget the thousands of contributors who have been excluded from the very right to a public pension. Therefore, it is not enough to talk about the recovery of purchasing power when there are pensions that have never had it. To this end, we must ensure that there will be no pensions below the poverty line. The European Union defines that the poverty threshold should be calculated on the equivalent of 60% of the average wage of workers in the environment, which in the case of Euskal Herria, for example, implies that no pension should be less than EUR 1,080. It is therefore urgent to give a comprehensive solution to this issue, which is affecting more and more people. Of course, we do not accept the excuses that have been used to deepen the path of cuts, such as the insustainability of the pension system and its growing deficit. If we start from the premise that pensions must be dignified, the next step is to guarantee sufficient resources for this, and therefore efforts must be made to increase incomes, by investing in order of priorities, by putting the needs of the population first, and by really investing in a social policy that promotes the creation of decent employment and the reduction of unemployment. This would balance social security accounts without the need for cuts. This is the only way to guarantee present and future pensions. To this end, Euskal Herria Bildu calls for a framework of social security and labour relations. That would be the way to create employment and thus guarantee pensions.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia. Mr Bataller has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Compromís is going to vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal for the recovery of the Toledo Pact, because it speaks to us of consensus, which we believe should characterize the legislature in which we are in. The crisis has had a strong impact on our welfare state and the unilateral neoliberal measures taken by the People's Party Government have only made the situation worse because in practice they have been betting that we have to rely on private pensions, because this outgoing Government has never really believed in the public. The move of the People's Party by the Government has led to the deterioration of the viability of the pension system; it has led to the loss of income and also to the actual impoverishment of amounts, especially those with minimum amounts. The representative of the proposing group has offered abundant figures. I am not going to focus any more, but I want to say that we are very concerned about the downward trend in pensions, we are very concerned about the looting of the Social Security reserve fund and we are also very concerned about the systematic use of decrees, such as Royal Decree-Law 5/2013, which has tried to impose the work continuity of older workers. We understand that the outgoing Government of the People's Party has led to a step back in time; it has led to the break-up of previous political and social consensuses; it has bet on regressive laws to hit the roller; it has bet on the empowerment of contracts for hours and eventuality, all of which has resulted in a drastic drop in Social Security revenues. According to the latest CIS barometer of February, the main problem for the Spaniards is unemployment, and indeed this is a problem that in this legislature we must try to tackle as directly as possible, because if people cannot work, how are we going to increase the volume of contributions in the system? We need to encourage the return of our young people abroad by offering them opportunities here at home. We must include the most vulnerable groups through employment plans. We must fight against the submerged economy so that it will cease to be so and it will also cotify the system. Fortunately, times are changing. Citizenship calls for consensus and opens up new processes and listening spaces. We are committed to regaining dialogue and providing the system with additional resources, ensuring levels of welfare for pensioners from now on and for those of the future, providing security for their pensions, and above all that the need to finance the public deficit on the guarantee for pensioners never again prevails. Those guarantees should not be touched. We want young workers to contribute, to whom we must facilitate entry into the labour market with guarantees, because they are loaded with strength, motivation and preparation, and we must provide them with greater social security contributions, encouraging indefinite contracts, increasing the minimum wage, not freezing it, not reducing wages. We must bet on a great social pact in the spirit which in its day illuminated the Pacts of the Moncloa, when the democratic right was negotiating with the rest of the formations. Ladies and gentlemen, let us have broad eyes, that the elderly can sleep peacefully tonight, and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and that young people can start working with decent jobs and can contribute and cooperate with the system. Since Compromís we have held hands to work together on this purpose. We support the proposal and invite the rest of the parliamentary groups to join this initiative, which we believe is a positive step towards maintaining and improving our welfare state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bataller. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the government is being asked in this House to reconstitute a pact, the Toledo Pact, means that there is someone who thinks it has been broken. The fact that this GNP can be brought forward means not only that someone believes that it has broken, but that the House will understand that it has failed. And the fact that a pact such as Toledo has been breached means leaving aside a political milestone, because it was an unprecedented political milestone to reconcile differentiated political positions, which, in addition, have succeeded in concrete measures aimed at that which article 50 of the Constitution calls guaranteeing adequate and regularly updated pensions. The idea of mutual trust was the axis on which the existence of the Toledo Pact was centered, and the existence of that so-called Toledo Pact and the subsequent constitution of the Non-Permanent Monitoring and Evaluation Commission for those agreements were based, and I would like to recall this because it literally says this, in excluding from the partisan struggle the social protection system, in order to channel it into a more calm political debate that would enable the maximum level of agreement to be reached as a guarantee of the effectiveness and durability of any reform. That is, it was held in a political agreement from different sensitivities to concrete measures aimed at guaranteeing economic sufficiency to citizens, precisely at a time or at a time when they may be most vulnerable, either in the elderly or in situations of disadvantage. Moreover, the idea of mutual trust embodied in the Toledo Pact also underlies the citizens themselves who are the recipients of those measures. These citizens have long understood that they were outside the political traffic, the marketing, the possibility of taking measures that could put at risk or reduce what they understood to be vital minimums, those minimums without which their dignity, their identity as human beings could be compromised. The idea of trust, as a representative of the Basque Group, has also been truncated since we in the Basque Country have appreciated, as in the rest of the State, that the material consequences have been especially hard for all, hard for the most disadvantaged, and also knowing that in the Basque Country we could have had an economic management in the field of social security if, as referred to in Article 18 of the Statute of Autonomy, the competences envisaged in this regard for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country had been transferred. The consequence of all this is that the measures described in the non-legislative proposal have, first of all, in my view, led to an unjustified breach of the legitimate trust that had been placed so much by the citizens, the institutions and the political parties themselves who had joined that agreement. In addition, unilateral measures have been taken by a corporate government that has based itself on its own strength and has preferred to ignore the added value of a socially impeccable agreement. But in addition, they are measures that have led to an inexcusable setback in social rights that the agreement had allowed its recipients. The objective of stability has prevailed, and that is true. Certain measures have met only the objective of budgetary stability, which have preferred to consolidate that system of guarantees provided not only between the measures envisaged but in articles 40 and 51 of the Constitution, and this policy has been justified in ensuring their financial sustainability, without even attempting to agree on other measures that could avoid the serious social impact. That is why, with all due respect, it is unacceptable that the Government's response now in office was that unilateral decision which caused the serious setback in the content of those benefits. That is the axis of criticism of these decisions: the political direction in the area of pensions that has assumed that those decisions have had an anti-social content. It is not our definition, but of the Constitutional Court itself, of what should be understood as appropriate measures in this respect, and I read: The measures adopted have ended up directly affecting the core of the social State It is part of the ruling of the Constitutional Court on this matter. [[Article 1.1 of the Constitution]] In addition, he points out that the core of the social State is the one aimed at guaranteeing everyone an existence consistent, with imperatives of respect, with the constitutional value of human dignity. That is why we understand that these measures have been incompatible with a government action that was in turn coherent, consistent not only with articles 1.1 but also with articles 10, 40 and 51 of the Constitution, which we believe is empty of content. [[Article 10 of the Constitution]] The importance of consensus has been emphasized by my predecessor - and I insist on it -. It's true that we're facing a situation, I don't know if it's atypical, but it does last...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u72	Mr. Barandiaran, go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u73	It is therefore no different from the duties of this House to try to recover not only the content of certain benefits that could guarantee citizens appropriate treatment, but also to try to recover the value of consensus, the value of mutual trust, which has broken the measures of the Government since they were adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u74	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group appreciates Mrs Rodríguez's initiative. We share the petitum that proposes to us - to regain consensus in the Toledo Pact - and we disagree, as it cannot be otherwise, with Mrs Spain in the speech she made a while ago. In the past parliamentary term we have experienced this rupture of the Toledo Pact, not so much because the People's Party did not comply with the recommendations, but because the legislative reforms it promoted in the past parliamentary term came to the House without any agreement with the social partners - which is the essence of the Toledo Pact - unlike the reforms produced in the previous parliamentary term that were the result of the agreement of the social partners. They were approved by the People's Party in the strictest solitude without any other group in the House supporting them, as opposed to previous reforms which did not enjoy their support but did enjoy the support of other groups. In the past legislature, from this rostrum it was stressed on numerous occasions that we should regain consensus in the Toledo Pact. Therefore, welcome is this initiative proposed to us by the Socialist Group, which, from the perspective of the Catalan Group, links with the best tradition that this group has had in its previous representations in this House, recalling once again - and my group will never tire of remembering it - that the existence of the Toledo Pact is the result of the proposal that Miquel Roca made in 1995. [[Democracy and Freedom]] With regard to reforms in the pension system and the conviction of the consensus on pensions, we are not going to be won; the service sheet that the Catalan Group can display in this House on this matter is a strong one. Therefore, welcome that consensus, welcome that recovery from the Toledo Pact, being very aware of the enormous challenges that the pension system has posed in relation to the adequacy of pensions and the sustainability of the pension system. With regard to the adequacy of the pension system, my group must point out that the reform introduced in the last parliamentary term is a bad business for pensioners, and especially for pensioners living in territories with higher inflations such as those of the pensioners of Catalonia or Madrid, and that in a context of standard inflations - the normal ones, not the ones we have today - the reform imposed by the PP opens the way to the impoverishment of pensioners. This issue will have to be reformulated in this legislature without any doubt, incorporating also, ladies and gentlemen, that maintaining an index of pension revaluation that does not take into account the different purchasing power of pensioners in the different territories of the State impoverishes pensioners in those territories with higher inflations. That debate must be addressed if we want the equality that you demand to be truly effective. There are also outstanding issues such as the reform of the widow's pension; indeed, agreed between the Socialist Group and the Catalan Group and vetoed over the past four years by the People's Group, preventing the improvement of widow's pensions. We have challenges in terms of sufficiency and, of course, also in terms of sustainability, which derive in the medium and short term from the labour market, as our job recovery is not being sufficient in terms of income to the system through contributions. There we have a huge deficit problem. We have the debate on the present and future of the Reserve Fund and we know that in the next decade we have raised the challenge of starting the retirement of baby boomers. [[The Lord]] Therefore, together with the challenge of sufficiency, the commitment to reforms of the pension system must continue. That is only possible since the agreement with the social partners and seeking the maximum agreement in this House. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the spokesman for the Vasco Group has already put forward this, despite the regret that we have consistently failed to comply with the autonomous statutes which recognise management powers in the field of social security. This is another issue that will also be raised in this legislature. In line with this logic, my group will vote in favour of Mrs Rodríguez's initiative from the Socialist Group in the hope that consensus will once again reach the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u76	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. It is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left and Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. I am new to this House and sometimes I would like to take a picture so that people would understand that some are much more concerned about the unity of Spain than the issue of pensions. [[Applauds]] I would like to see all these who care about the unity of Spain and who now have their seats empty. That said, pending the Catalan Constitution to be adopted in a referendum - and, if we give Catalan citizenship a yes, we would enter into a bilateral negotiation for the sharing of the assets and liabilities of Social Security in Catalonia and the Reserve Fund - as left-wing republicans and internationalists we will always add our votes in favour of the interests of the working classes of the different peoples. We will therefore give a yes to the Socialist Group's proposal to regain the necessary consensus, as well as to all the necessary measures aimed at securing decent pensions and strengthening the viability of the public system: the only system, the public, in which we believe. But it is a critical and, at the same time, sceptical, very sceptical yes, because more than the Toledo Pact, what is needed is a left-wing government - which, Mr Sánchez, even if you are not and you are going to see it in this vote - if on the left we understand those who defend the social rights and the national rights of peoples and that in this House it has the backing of millions of citizens from all over the State. More than 8 million people in the Spanish State have voted in favour of the right to decide - take note of this too - that they understand and voted loudly saying that there are no social rights without national rights or national rights without social rights. Millions of workers who fully understand the right to decide, without any problem, because they are truly left-wing and democrats. It is a critical and skeptical yes, as I said, to the proposal presented because only real and courageous left-wing policies against the troika dictatorship can save our deferred salary, which is pensions. These policies, which urgently await millions of citizens, must be done with the Toledo Pact or without the Toledo Pact. And I say this with or without a pact because I want to remember that the last reforms have been made, both with Mr Zapatero and with Mr Rajoy, without a pact. They are reforms that have gone against workers by increasing the retirement age, by allowing the loss of the purchasing power of our pensioners. They have all been done without consensus and without a pact, passing the roll and even failing to comply with their electoral programmes. It is therefore urgent to recover what is lost by the working classes, with or without a pact, and this depends only on the coherence of those who are called representatives of the working classes. It is up to the majority of those elected by the workers to stop financing what has been done for years: Reductions in social security contributions by employers - up to EUR 3 billion a year; re-establishing the retirement age in sixty-five years and repealing the successive reforms that imposed it in sixty-seven; recovering and facilitating early retirement and relief, taking into account, moreover, that youth unemployment is around 50% on average. Similarly, stop looting the Reserve Fund, the pension fund, which does not take another euro out of our future, from our pension; lifts the contribution ceilings; demands that pensions be revalued and, at least, in accordance with the CPI, especially by recovering minimums and non-contributory amounts until they reach decent pensions. Also, to accompany this proposal with others such as the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage - which we have already presented - seeking the recovery of purchasing power and employment, the repeal of labour reforms and each and every one of the measures adopted by the People's Party that have bled and impoverished millions of citizens and, of course, current and future pensions. A battery of policies is needed to reconstruct labour relations, especially those of poorer subsectors such as pensioners and those who cannot work by age or disease, which require not only regaining purchasing power but also ensuring their health, of public quality and free of charge. In short, and with this I conclude, it is urgent to recompose legislation that gives workers back their rights. This majority exists and is in the hands of Mr Sánchez, even if he is not here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u78	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. For the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mr Montero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a greeting to the absent. The Socialist Group is presenting us with a non-legislative proposal which aims to recover the Toledo Pact as an expression of a moment of consensus and social dialogue which, apparently, made it possible to secure public pensions from party confrontation. As your ladies and gentlemen can appreciate, the magic word in that statement is the word consensus, and it seems from the text of the proposal that the reforms made by consensus cannot be bad or harmful to those who suffer the effects of those reforms. What we are wondering from our parliamentary group is whether it is really enough for the consensus and the return to the spirit of the Toledo Pact to ensure that the public pension system guarantees decent living conditions for our pensioners. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, in 2011 there was consensus to reform the pension system by Mr Zapatero's government which was good for the financial health of the system, but disastrous for the living conditions of pensioners. There was consensus to, inter alia, extend the retirement age from sixty-five to sixty-seven years. There was consensus to extend the calculation period of the regulatory base from fifteen to twenty-five years and there was consensus to put forward a sustainability factor that, look where, you then reproach the People's Party for having applied it, I don't know whether because you copied the idea or because you did it without consensus. That was the result of the consensus: A consensus to cut pensions. Of course, after this, and the ban already opened, the People's Party government arrived and gave another axe to the system by cutting pensions in two fundamental ways: One, giving life to the sustainability factor conceived in the 2011 reform, that is, by giving continuity to its policies, and two, by introducing a revaluation index that makes pension increases not dependent on the increase in the cost of living, as would be desirable and what had been happening until then, but on the financial health of the system. In addition, the reform of the People's Party, in order to be able to sell it, accompanied it by the triquiñuela to introduce that pensions would increase at least, always by 0.25 %. And that allows them to go up to this rostrum to say that pensions are never going to go down, without their face falling in shame. As if the pensioners did not understand the difference between nominal and real pensions when they have to go to the market or pharmacy and see what the price of the medicines or the products they buy and what their pensions have gone up! And look where, just a few weeks ago, Funcas, this country's Savings Fund Foundation, has just published a study in which it estimates the cost to pensioners of the two reforms, the consensus, of 2011, and the non-consensuous, of 2013. According to Funcas, the 2011 reform will mean an average reduction in the lifetime pension of around 20 %, while the 2013 reform will add an additional loss of 15 %. That is to say, in less than three years, between you and yourself, you have cut pensioners' rights by more than 35%. [[pointing to the seats on the left and right of the Chamber]] [[Applauds]] ; a cut that all of them will experience from jubilee to the day just before they die. That is what you do every time you reform pensions, with or without consensus: to save the financial health of the system at the expense of the health of pensioners. So don't come looking for our support to cut rights now. They will not find us there for much invocation of the Toledo Pact or the Toros de Guisando Pact that they do according to the day and the reason. Don't think, though, that we're giving them a door in their nostrils because I'm going to tell them where they can find us. They can find us when it comes to talking about what a decent pension is in this country, where 23% of pensioners live below the poverty line and 61% of pensioners have a pension of less than EUR 800. I sincerely believe that in the face of this data, your concern and ours is exactly the same and I am sure that we can reach consensus there; I only ask you, Mrs Rodríguez, that we do not start the house on the roof. The first thing we have to agree on is that the most important thing in a public pension system is not the financial health of the system, but the living conditions of pensioners. Not doing so is confusing ends with the media. If we agree on that, then it is already easier to agree on how to get resources to guarantee decent living conditions for our pensioners because I am sure that then it will be much easier to talk about other issues. We will be able to talk about how to raise minimum pensions, because we want to raise them and we believe that you too. We will be able to talk about how to finance pensions beyond social security contributions, because we want to supplement them with taxes and so do you. We can talk about what scope we have for a tax reform that not only allows us to help finance pensions with taxes, as is done in other European countries, and you know it well, but also to guarantee more and better social rights. But, Mrs Rodríguez, decide soon whether you want to talk about it or not, whether you want to seek consensus on that ground or not, because at the rate we are going to, the policies of the People's Party will not only exhaust the Social Security Reserve Fund, but will also end all the social achievements that so much work and struggle cost our elders, both those who have worked in this country and those who have returned to it from exile. Those older ones...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u80	Mr. Montero, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u81	I'm done, Mr. President. Those older ones who have already made a huge effort to bring us to where we have come from and to those who are not right to continue demanding more sacrifices now that they deserve to rest. Neither do they deserve these sacrifices, nor is it fair for us to impose them on them by playing politically with their fear and with their bread. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u82	Thank you, Mr. Montero. It is now up to Mrs Rodríguez Fernández to tell the House whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u83	President, we do not accept either of the two amendments tabled as they add anything substantially different to strengthening the Toledo Pact.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u84	All right, thank you very much. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP WE CAN COMMONLY POSSES-EN-MAREA, ON RATIFICATION OF ILO CONVENTION No. 189 AND RECOMMENDATION No. 201 ON DECENT WORK FOR DOMESTIC WORKERS. [[File number 162/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u85	No legislative proposal of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group on the ratification of ILO Convention No. 189 and Recommendation No. 201 on decent work for domestic workers. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, the truth is that, although this is the first plenary session of this Parliament, I bring you an old woman known to this House. With the closeness of March 8, In Comú Podemos-En Marea believes the recognition of the rights of domestic workers is essential. It is, above all, a question of human rights, women's dignity and gender justice. We therefore bring you the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention 189 and Recommendation 201. Yesterday, the ILO presented a study highlighting the huge deficits faced by domestic workers around the world, and allow me to speak in terms of women, since 80% of this group are women. In the world, most domestic workers do not have access to any kind of social coverage, none. Most of their work is underestimated and they are double and triplely discriminated against: because they are working class, because they are women and many because they are immigrants. The words that a councilman of a party - no need to say which one - dedicated yesterday to my mayor are still echoed in our ears. I told him - and I read -: In a serious and healthy society, Ada Colau would be cleaning floors and not the mayor of Barcelona. Those of us who have earned our lives once by cleaning floors, who are daughters, sisters, or granddaughters of women who have brought their families forward by scrubbing floors, would today ask that councilman to resign. [[Applauds]] We understand that machismo and classism do not take place in our institutions. Extending social protection to women domestic workers is a fundamental element in the struggle for dignity at work, for the emergence of the submerged economy and for gender equality. In Spain, the EPA places 700,000 people working in this sector, more than 90 % women, more than 50 % immigrants; 30 % of them are excluded from national labour legislation, even 45 % are not even entitled to weekly rest periods or annual paid leave and more than one third are not entitled to maternity protection. Domestic work has been considered - and built like this - as an activity intimately associated with the female gender: invisible, worthless, with little recognition. However, the contribution of domestic workers to society and the economy is invaluable. It is they, in fact, who guarantee, before a changing society, the survival of care, or life, as a companion said when we spoke before entering here. The fact that many move into the informal economy makes them potential victims of abuse and harassment. They're invisible workers. And those who do not have roles are victims of lack of protection, precariousness, sexual abuse, violence, ill-treatment, forced labour or even imprisonment. They are victims of all this and fear of being deported, language barriers or, of course, ignorance of laws and their own rights pushes them into a situation of extreme vulnerability. Convention 189 provides specific protection for women workers and domestic workers. It establishes the basic rights and principles; basics, ladies and gentlemen, they are not offering the moon to these workers either. It is a question of giving these people minimal protection from exploitation that they often suffer. We ask that domestic workers have at work the same fundamental rights as the rest of the workers in this country. This means reasonable working hours, weekly work of at least twenty-four consecutive hours, a limit on payment in kind so that they are not made fraud, clear information on the terms and conditions of employment, and respect for the fundamental principles and rights - I repeat, fundamental - at work, including, of course, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Incomprehensiblely, the Spanish Government has not yet ratified this convention; in fact, the Council of Ministers of 14 December 2012 reported non-ratification. And I wonder: what has led us not to ratify this convention? Why make it difficult for nearly 700,000 people in Spain to have the same rights as any other worker? Is it because they're women? Maybe because they're immigrant women? I would like to recall that the European Commission presented in 2013 a proposal for a Council decision urging and authorising Member States to ratify and recalling the importance it would have because it would undoubtedly contribute to the implementation of the European Union Strategy against Trafficking in Human Beings; trafficking, ladies and gentlemen. Trade unions, women's associations, NGOs and many other parties in this House have been demanding the Government to ratify ILO Convention 189 for four years. It is already late to be pioneers in defending the minimum guarantees of this collective. The years have passed and, fortunately, while some were making excuses, twenty-two countries have already ratified the agreement, seven of them European; twenty-two, I insist, seven of them European: Italy, Germany, Finland, Ireland and Switzerland, where it is already in force, and Belgium and Portugal, where it will enter into force this summer. Spain would also strengthen international action to ensure decent work in many countries where the situation is even worse than in the Spanish State. In Comú Ponde-Podemos-En Marea we believe, in short, that it is not only a good gesture on the part of this Parliament that it approves of calling on the government to ratify this convention, but that it is a matter of justice, ladies and gentlemen. This proposal should be adopted unanimously without further delay; today and now. It is a vote that has to do with the prestige and brand of our country, the brand of a different Spain, a brand with regard to its people and not the interests of big companies. We can be on the side of those who protect, or not; we can be on the side of those who legislate to move forward, or not; of those who recognize the rights of domestic workers, or not. There are about 700,000 people, but even if there were only one person, it would also be worth ratifying this convention, which has to do with recognizing their status as workers and their equality with the rest, and because it is a question of human rights and gender justice. As I said at the beginning, this is not a new topic, but we offer them again the opportunity to do our job as parliamentarians: to guarantee the rights of the people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.- Several Members also stand up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Vidal. The turn of the groups which have tabled amendments, starting with the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr Martinez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u88	Mr President, according to the data of the EPA, which raises more than 637,000 persons employed in the household, Spain is one of the European countries that generates the most domestic employment and, therefore, this initiative is important insofar as it concerns workers in the sector, of which a very large majority, as has been said, are women, and the need for our country to ratify ILO Convention 189 and its Recommendation 201, a number of documents that were sent by the Government to the General Courts at the end of 2012 for the knowledge of Congress and Senate, prior to passage by the Council of Ministers. This House, through its Committee on Employment and Social Security, has since unanimously agreed to urge the Government to adapt Spanish legislation within a reasonable time to the ILO recommendation and provisions on domestic workers. The reality is that the Government did not do so, nor did the legislators push for new measures to accommodate our laws. We do not understand that it has been passive, lack of political will or little trade union demand, but rather complexity, as the small number of ratifications carried out by the ILO member countries, which is still smaller if we look to those who have it in force, little more than one tenth, proves. In Europe only three countries have it in force and two others will start implementing it from the summer; that is, there are one hundred and eighty-three countries in the world that, like Spain, have not ratified it. My amendment sets a specific one-year deadline for Spain to join the list of twenty-two countries that already have all the provisions made by the ILO in force. I do not have much time, but I would like to point out that from the time of entry into force it will be precisely the employers, that is, the households of the Spanish families, who will have to assume many specific obligations arising from these legislative changes, which is all the more reason for the ILO's mandate not to come into force overnight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u89	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Mrs Enbeita has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the latest data, 80 % or more of domestic workers work more than 40 hours a week, even if that is the maximum of weekly hours established by law, and this does not take into account domestic workers, who work 24 hours at the service of those who hire them and many do not reach the interprofessional minimum wage. Is this a decent job? Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's not. And, of course, no one will be amazed at this point if we say that the majority of domestic workers are women; women and immigrants. What a coincidence! Perhaps that is why institutions do so little to dignify this work. The International Labour Organization published such a logical convention and recommendations back in 2011 as, for example, ensuring that a domestic worker who resides in the employer's home is not required to apply any discount on accommodation. The latest data from the Basque Government, for example, tell us once again that this is a lie, that this is not done this way. It is also stated in those recommendations that contract members should take steps to ensure that domestic workers enjoy conditions that are not less favourable than those applied to other workers in general, but we all know that the most punished guild in the labour system is that of domestic workers who, having such harsh working conditions, have never been entitled to collective bargaining. Ladies and gentlemen, these women, who care and care for our grandmothers, mothers and daughters, many of them combine care in our homes with care in their own homes and the minimum that society owes them is respect. The Government should do something to promote decent conditions in its work. We could use, and so we claim, a proper framework of labour relations at Euskal Herria in order to be able to dignify the conditions of employment of female domestic workers. Finally, I would like to say to that councilman that he seems to steal soil from an unworthy job - like so many others - that it is far more unworthy to soil than to rub them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. Mrs Sánchez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u92	In the United Left-Popular Unity we welcome this non-law proposal, which means correcting the discrimination of more than 429,000 workers, of whom 80% are women and to a large extent are migrants. Therefore, what is corrected is a double discrimination: classist and sexist. Apart from this, we would like to point out that we reject the amendments which make it necessary for these rights to be recognised as eligible for funding; if that were the case, if it had depended on that, things such as the abolition of slavery would not have happened. We would still be waiting for a better economic situation and would be slaves who would continue to harvest the cotton fields. Therefore, we do not feel that the conditions on the possible economic impact are acceptable. Rights are recognized as rights and their funding is sought, we cannot do it the other way around: waiting to recognize justice and the rights to which we can finance them. Finally, I would say that ratification of Convention 189 is necessary, but it is insufficient. The legislation will then have to be adapted and done with due regard to the specific characteristics of this work, because the fact that it is the citizens' homes that are the workplace of these workers has quite particular implications. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez. Mrs. Sorlí.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u94	While we're here, many people are doing invisible work, they're hidden, they're domestic workers. It is a job without rights, without recognition; a job done by people who will not be entitled to retirement or unemployment, or aid, or even to be sick, because if they do not work, they do not charge. This is a very useful and necessary work for our society, because we entrust our homes, the care of the elderly, our children, our tranquillity to those people who work at home. We cannot enslave the people we trust in our privacy. Why do we find the quotas, the prices of the residences for the elderly or the day-care centres excessive? Because we have no awareness of the work behind it. We're hiding home care. It's not a job for someone who doesn't charge anything or almost anything. And we have to dignify paid domestic work, but also the second days of all those women who, after working outside the home, come home and have to perform household tasks: child care, cleaning, food; women who end up exhausted, who end up without personal time. Today we have to recognize the progress of many parents, such as those of the Platform, for the intransferable permission for birth and adoption, who today have become personified in order to have the right to care for their sons and daughters. Let us become aware of this reality. Poorly paid work is unrecognized work, unworthy work. The structure is already good for you: to have a free job, not to pay for domestic needs. In Compromís we say yes to professional recognition, to rights, to the dignity of domestic work. And Mr Sánchez - whom I would like to address, but he is not - has the opportunity to choose between the right which has reduced benefits and has engaged these people in hiding, the new right, which disguises itself but wants to feed inequalities, favor banks, the market and power, or can choose the opportunity, the political alternative, the alternative for all people. [[Applauds]] You can decide to govern to recognize rights, dignify jobs and make a society fairer and happier. Let us make this possible; let us make possible policies for all people, also for domestic workers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Mr Campuzano has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vidal, my group will support your initiative. As you have recalled, in this House we have discussed on several occasions, and almost always starring Mr Coscubiela, at least in the last parliamentary term, on the need to ratify Convention 189. Even that mandate came to be approved by the Employment Committee with a compromise amendment offered by the People's Party, although, as you have also recalled, the legislature passed and the convention has finally not been ratified. I suppose that in fixing the positions of the groups - and in particular of the group which in the last parliamentary term was opposed to such ratification - we will be able to hear again the arguments that would explain why Spain has not yet proceeded to such ratification. They are placed under certain obligations laid down in the Convention, which appear to make it difficult for them to comply with current Spanish legislation and, logically, to amend such legislation, especially as regards the protection of unemployment and occupational health. With these complexities in place, which I assume will again be recalled by the spokesmen of the People's Parliamentary Group, it is also true that the fact that other European States have decided to proceed with such ratification indicates that if there is political will these complexities can be addressed. Therefore, recognizing the complexity, my group will again vote in favour of this ratification today. As has been argued by the various speakers, it seems to us that it is fair to dignify employment within households, within families. We do so for our domestic workers, those who live together in the Spanish State, but also for the importance of ILO legislation in relation to other countries. Some spokesman told us that few States have ratified this convention. For that is precisely a good reason to proceed to ratify it as it will surely encourage other States to do so. However, in this debate my group sees it necessary to raise at least two points. The first is that we have been demanding for years, proposing, suggesting, proposing in the House, and with very little success, that measures be incorporated in the Spanish State, as has been the case in France and Belgium over the past ten or twelve years, to promote the emergence of employment in the services sector for individuals and families. We have simply set as an example what was known in France as the Borloo Act, at the time of the French minister Borloo, when governing the UMP, a mechanism that allowed middle-class families to access personal services within their homes linked to the various activities of everyday life which, without public support in the hiring of these services, condemned families to hire such services in the submerged economy and therefore without guaranteeing quality employment to those working in these areas. We have raised this on several occasions and both the Socialist Group and the People's Parliamentary Group have rejected this issue. Today again, Mrs Vidal, I invite you and I invite Podemos and your confluences to study the French model and to be able to try to move that French model that seeks not only the protection of domestic workers, but also to provide families with access to these services. In this respect, the amendment we have tabled seeks to know what impact the reforms adopted in the past two legislatures have had and which allowed the establishment of a special system for domestic workers which introduced improvements in the protection of these workers. Thus, we will be able to know at the beginning of this legislature what real impact these improvements have had, especially the impact in relation to the increase in the social security system membership of household employees, because the figures given to us by the EPA and the membership figures continue to show us that there is still a lot of submerged economy in this sector. In this respect, the amendment that my group is proposing seeks to know the impact of this reform, which we believe is essential in order to re-start the process of ratification of Convention 189 in this parliamentary term. In any case, Mrs Vidal, welcome your initiative, which will count on our support. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u97	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Faba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group considers the guarantee of adequate safety and health conditions at work, as well as the maximum social protection for all workers, to be an absolute priority. Indeed, the exercise of this protective function of our State for the guarantee of these optimal working conditions is more complex when the work activity takes place within the employer's home, since for its administrative control judicial authorization or consent of the owner of the home where the services are provided is required. ILO Convention No. 189 and Recommendation No. 201 supplementing it represent a significant step forward in the protection of the rights of domestic workers. This agreement is broadly referred to any domestic worker, i.e. any person of a female or male gender who engages in domestic work within the framework of a work relationship, whether employed by organizations or enterprises, or employed by private individuals. This agreement establishes widely protective rules for domestic workers, carefully regulating both their labour and social protection rights and the minimum conditions for the performance of their professional activity, such as working time, compulsory rest and holidays, remuneration, safety and health conditions in the working environment, the formalization of the employment contract, among many others. Moreover, Recommendation No. 201 provides more detailed and practical guidance on the issues addressed in the Convention and sets out additional measures for the protection of domestic workers, such as the reconciliation between work and private life, the guarantee of the right of equality between workers, the professional development of women workers and domestic workers, the improvement of the collection of statistical data on domestic work or the protection of workers employed by diplomatic personnel. On the other hand, we are faced with a legal regime in force in our State that does not provide for such comprehensive and guaranteed protection of the rights of domestic workers. These domestic workers are registered in the special system for domestic workers, included in the general social security scheme, although, according to the regulations contained in the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, these workers will not have exactly the same right to social security benefits under the terms and conditions laid down in the general social security scheme for any other employed person, which is equivalent to Convention No. 189 of the International Labour Organization. According to data recently published by the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, in February 2016 they were affiliated with the special system of household employees, as already mentioned, 429,626 employees, 0.13% more than the previous year. The vast majority, as has also been mentioned, of the workers who are employed for domestic work are women. It is clear that our domestic legal order does not conform to the determinations of International Labour Organization Convention No. 189, but at the same time it cannot be obvious that it is essential that the measures taken be economically viable. It is therefore appropriate to clarify the economic, budgetary and regulatory changes that would be made in order to promote the ratification of ILO Convention No. 189 for the maximum guarantee and protection of the rights of domestic workers. The ratification of the above-mentioned Convention is an opportunity to correct the traditional lack of measures protecting the rights of domestic workers and to achieve their full equality with the rights accorded to other employed persons in different sectors of activity. Ratification is therefore necessary but not sufficient; we must also exercise responsibility. When it comes to implementing the agreement from the government, we will have to do so with the maximum guarantees of economic solvency, with a studied calculation of its costs and with special attention to avoid fraud. This is the only way to ensure the best possible protection of the rights of domestic workers. Therefore, through this amendment of amendment and being priority for the Parliamentary Group Citizens to achieve the maximum protection of domestic workers and the full recognition of their labour and social rights, we hope that it will be admitted by the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and that it will achieve the support of all parliamentary groups in the House. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Faba. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Echaniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by pointing out that the Kingdom of Spain is the country of the International Labour Organization, which has so far ratified the largest number of conventions, one hundred and thirty-three. This means that our nation, over the last few decades, has not only been diligent, but advanced and exemplary in the development, momentum, incorporation and defence of workers' rights. Our legislation has always been permeable to best practices in the field of work and to an important volume of recommendations promoted by the ILO, when it has not led the extension of our labour practices and standards to other countries and regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, if Spain has not yet ratified Convention 189 and ILO Recommendation 201, it is not for a whim, it is because there are compelling reasons for their ratification when, and only when, the set of endorsed recommendations are all compatible with our legal order and beneficial at all extremes for domestic workers. As is reasonable, the general criterion for the ratification of an international convention is that Spanish legislation complies with all the requirements of the convention or that, even if not previously complied with, there is no impediment in the European acquis or for always exceptional reasons of national policy. The communication of the convention to Spain by the ILO coincided almost with the publication of the royal decree which, in 2011, under the umbrella of the Government of the Socialist Party, regulated the special work regime of the family home. Already then several articles of the convention were identified, some very important, incompatible with our legislation - for example, 2, 4, 7, 9, 13 and 14 - because our legislation excludes from this special labour legislation cases where the employer is not the owner of a household, but a legal person. This is logical, because in Spain this employment relationship is within the scope of the General Social Security Regime, which is much more beneficial to the worker, in the same way as in the case of persons under the age of eighteen, where the Workers' Statute contributes to greater legal certainty; or in the field of safety and health at work, where our own law, in accordance with European Community directives, excludes certain requirements because it is not the home a work centre to use and because of the difficulties of the Labour Inspectorate to carry out its obligations in a private environment and forbidden to the public authority; or because of the non-homogeneity of the social protection of domestic workers with other workers; or because of the obligation of information or the provisions that make our regulations not calcable or consistent with some of the provisions of the Convention, but which provide it with all guarantees in basic rights and in labour rights granted by our Workers' Statute. In order to comply with the thirty-ninth provision of Law 27/2011, the Government of Spain appeared in this Chamber at its own request and submitted a report on the integration of the special regime of domestic workers into the General Social Security Regime. Three months later, he presented the Royal Decree-Law on the Improvement of Management and Social Benefit of the Special System for Home Employees, which simplified and balanced the contribution bases with a new scale of instalments and which substantially improved integration and increased the quotas and benefits, allowing workers to be responsible for fulfilling their obligations to Social Security, adding the part of the employee's contribution to their remuneration to pay it. All this was done in order to also improve the future benefits of this group and advance in the gradual process of rapprochement with the General Regime until the year 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, all these measures have made progress in social protection. They have developed a genuine labour relationship, incorporating the right of workers included in the special system for domestic workers into social security benefits, under the terms and conditions laid down in the General Social Security Regime; betting on the dignity of working conditions; establishing greater and better workers' rights; implementing in what is feasible the Workers' Statute and complementary legislation and, above all, introducing greater stability in employment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, much has been done, and we can continue to do so if we persevere in the reforms that generate demand, increase the desire to hire Spanish families and continue to give opportunities to those in need of employment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our support and our appreciation for this very important collective, for which this Government is going to continue to work. Ladies and gentlemen, any consensus, agreement or agreement to which the Kingdom of Spain subscribes must be made without undermining our labour law and without adversely affecting employment. That's what other countries do. That is why, so far, of the one hundred and eighty-five ILO countries, only twenty-two have ratified it, just over 10%; and of the twenty-eight European Union countries, only six have ratified it. Almost 90% of the ILO countries have not yet ratified it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Spain, which has a better situation than most of these ILO countries, must do so when we have the security - and this is what the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group defends - that it will not harm our labour market, that it will not harm our workers and, of course, when there is the necessary consensus among all those involved. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u101	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. We are now in the turn to lay down the positions of those groups which have not tabled amendments. I call first on the representative of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u102	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. To intervene after the representative of the group supporting the Government had done so, and specifically by referring to issues contained in a report which said that they had prevented the possibility of signing this convention was somewhat strange. If there are any impediments, they could have been substantiated, they could have been solved, they could have been made possible since, on 8 May 2013, the Committee on Employment and Social Security adopted, in addition to an amendment negotiated by all groups, the impetus for the signing of this agreement. Therefore, either the possibility existed and it has not been intended or it has not been mentioned situations of impossibility of contradiction between the terms of the implementing legislation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I will return to what was going to be the thread of my argument, and it is that the signing of this agreement was and remains, first and foremost, the execution of an instruction, a debate, a parliamentary transaction which, I repeat, has not been explained why it has not been completed; but above all it is an act of justice in respect of a particularly vulnerable and unprotected group. Different aspects have been pointed out in which labour legislation can place this group in an unfavourable position and also mention has been made of its economic, employment and many others situation, as well as the ILO report and some others which have referred to the number and the persons employed, to whom it has laundered, etc. What has not been mentioned is that, being a precarious sector or, on many occasions, subject to many situations of exploitation, it has not been sufficiently monitored. In other words, there may have been, from the scope of the labour authority, inspection, control activity in relation to irregular situations, today, and despite the remarkable progress that we have been able to contemplate since they could be incardinated in the field of social security, it has not been normalized, at least to some desirable extremes. It is true - and we are told - that since its estimated inclusion in social security, with the deficits or shortcomings that may be due to the absence of certain benefits, the precarious situation has increased from 42% to 69%, but this does not make us forget that, as someone has also pointed out, it is still an area in which not only the precariousness and economic impact, but the submerged economic situation underlying it, has been adequately treated. In addition, there is also a facet that I would like to highlight and it is the particular impact of this activity in particular in the field of social policies. The activity of domestic workers is not limited today to the traditional domestic service, which has also been mentioned; the activity of this sector is also directed, and for a long time, to other activities linked to social policies that are also the subject of direction and structure by public administrations, such as those of home care for older persons, whether dependent or not; those of accompanying minors, which make it possible to complement policies of reconciliation of working life, and even more specialized ones such as those of care for situations of physical or psychological insecurity. This regulation, therefore, could also allow a reality to emerge in those terms that must have an impact on other material areas such as the map of social services and the quality parameters that it provides. This also allows me to lead the debate to point out the importance of the ratification of the convention from the point of view of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, since the thread of own competences that have developed in the field of social services - Decree 177/2010 and Decree 31/2015 - has not only allowed these workers to be placed in the field of social matters within a regulated framework, but also, by referring to an issue that has also been raised, Mrs Enbeita, allows for the establishment of a working area of negotiation, of conditions of employment that also allows an area of guarantee of the rights of these workers. While all these facets are important, my preference is that of social justice. The PNL remembers at a time that this collective has a woman's face, and I wanted to add that sometimes it also has a girl's face, it also has an immigrant accent and not on rare occasions an irregular or clandestine name. It is therefore also subject to areas of exploitation. While labour regulations should prevent such situations - I repeat what I have said earlier -, greater inspection is needed to prevent such situations. As I said, as a result of all this we understand that, without prejudice to areas that need to be overcome, it is possible to do so with some, but not too, difficulty. Ratification of ILO Convention 189 and ILO Recommendation 201 is therefore an issue that is hard to do and more difficult to imagine that a democratic Government may fail to achieve. We therefore announce that the Basque Group will support this GNP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u103	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. Mrs Surra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, talking about domestic work in Spain today is talking about a job in which only 9% of workers in the sector have legal coverage, like the rest of the workers. It is talking about the worst working conditions for women in Europe, and in particular for us, immigrant women, who represent a high percentage of these workers. It is only a week away from International Women's Day to talk about a job in which the greatest gender inequalities in the labour market are expressed. It is talking about one of the most important tasks for our society as are the care of our children, the elderly, dependent people and the care of our homes. And it seems a lie that one day like yesterday, in the City Hall of Barcelona, in my city, to our mayor, Mrs. Ada Colau, they intended to denigrate and discredit her by saying that it would be better for the mayor to scrub the floors. It is no contradiction to be mayor and to scrub the floors as well as to be a deputy and scrub the floors; the sad contradiction in the 21st century is to be a registrar and a sexist. [[Applauds]] To speak today of domestic work in Spain is to speak of a job that, on the one hand, condemns women workers in the sector to job insecurity and legal lack of protection, while, on the other, it has allowed the liberation of indigenous women for their personal and professional development. It is also talking about a law on foreigners that makes it difficult for us to regroup immigrants family, preventing many women from living with their family, away from their children, while, paradoxically, they care for and protect the family nucleus of indigenous people. It's about the women we find on Sundays in the speakers, trying to exercise mothers by phone, educating and advising their children in the distance; in those same speakers where unfortunately the Aliens Police carries out raids on the hunting of the irregular immigrant. It is about inequality and discrimination, job insecurity, endless daily days, invisibility, low wages, difficulties in regularizing your residence and work permit. In short, it's talking about semi-slavery workers. As a woman and immigrant, I appeal to all women in this House to legislate on domestic work and support the ratification by Spain of ILO Convention 189 and Recommendation 201 on decent work for domestic workers. Finally, on behalf of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, we support this proposal, fulfilling the mandate for which we were elected, to support all social measures for the workers of the Kingdom of Spain. We assure the domestic workers of Catalonia that in a future Catalan republic, socially just, the equal rights of all workers will be guaranteed. Immigrants are not a second-rate caste in Catalonia, the best example is I here today. We're a people's land. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Surra. Mrs Sumelzo has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will support this initiative and we will do so because it is a matter of justice to guarantee and protect the labour and social security rights of almost 600,000 people, according to the EPA, who work daily in domestic service. More than 90% of them are women, of whom more than 50% are immigrants. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, failure to ratify ILO Convention 189 means curtailing rights and promoting inequality among workers, something which is inconceivable today, in the 21st century. This is what the Socialist Parliamentary Group understands, which also tabled a similar non-law proposal last February, with the same meaning as the one we are debating today, an initiative that joins the legislation adopted by a socialist government in 2011 to dignify the work of domestic workers. I would like to recall that it was a socialist government that then, in 2011, forced employers to discharge those who worked at home, regardless of the length of their working hours. This legislation - I insist, adopted by a socialist government - also guaranteed their labour and social protection rights. This formalized the informal work - to say the least - that always exists in this productive activity, as according to the EPA more than 200,000 people are probably and were working without being affiliated. Also at that time labour rights and social protection of workers in this sector were assimilated with the rest of the workers, and all this, I repeat, with a socialist government. Regrettably, a People's Party government arrived, which also extended its counter-reforms to this area, and in December 2012 it returned to the previous regime in 2011 with the consequent setback that this caused. The worst of all was that it was not due to economic reasons because it is obvious that this measure did not entail any savings in public expenditure; the reasons were unique and exclusively the lack of social consideration for paid work within the family home. This would be confirmed repeatedly by the repeated and unjustifiably unwarranted People's Parliamentary Group in not wanting to ratify the convention called for today in the initiative we are debating, ILO Convention 189, on decent work for domestic workers, and it did so on the grounds that it was difficult to apply in Spain. They were arguments, as your ladies and gentlemen will see, scarce and incredulous that the Socialist Parliamentary Group never seemed convincing because, how many difficulties were possible to ratify an agreement that had already signed seventeen countries, some of them even from our nearest environment. In May 2014, a question from our parliamentary group to the Government was answered textually: This collective has guaranteed adequate social protection and promotes the existence of a true employment relationship. The Government of the People's Party referred to some peculiarities in our system of domestic workers who force us to reflect on the immediate ratification of the convention, which does not prevent us from moving forward for ratification in the future and, as the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group said today, they have not given sufficient thought. Ladies and gentlemen, we could not say so much and so little at once, then and today in this rostrum. The Government of the People's Party has never shown a willingness to adapt to our rules the requirements of the ILO Convention and, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no obstacle to ratifying a convention which is, as we have said, justice, as some of the spokespersons we have spoken here today. Their non-ratification means to endorse the precariousness of work and the lack of social protection of a group of workers who are primarily concerned with the care of our own, of our families and of our home. We, the Socialist Group, would like this initiative - one of the first to be debated in this parliamentary term - to be adopted unanimously. It would be a gesture for this House to demonstrate its ability to reach agreements, especially on those issues that contribute to improving the quality of life of the people we represent. The Socialist Group, as we said at the beginning of this speech, will support the initiative because it is part of our identity, equality, the fight against inequality, and we also do so with the wish that the rest of the parliamentary groups will also support it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Sumelzo. Mrs Vidal, do you accept any of the amendments tabled by the various groups?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u108	We accept that of Forum, we reject that of Citizens and that of the People's Party, and we also accept that of Democracy and Llibertat.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u109	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u110	We now turn to the agenda item on the proposals for the establishment of different committees. Firstly, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, the request by the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group for the creation of a permanent non-legislative commission to combat corruption and the request by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Mr Baldoví and Mr Garzón, the Joint Group, for the establishment of a permanent commission for the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms will be discussed together. In defence of the proposals put forward by your group, Mr Campo intervenes, first of all, by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am taking the floor asking you to vote in favour of setting up a parliamentary committee of a regulatory nature, and I am doing so under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The initiative that I am now presenting to you involves the creation of a committee with a broad scheme and, as you know, it is being negotiated by different groups in this House. And the first thought has to be to congratulate us, to congratulate us on that agreement and that in times of so much gloomyness. Consensus is not an end, but a magnificent method of work. I thank all the groups I have had the opportunity to work with. He said that the committee's proposal has a scheme that runs between the audit of the democratic quality of our institutions, the fight against corruption and the proposal for institutional and legal reforms. All this, as reflected in the preamble to our Constitution, with a basic objective: 'To ensure democratic coexistence within the Constitution and laws in accordance with a just economic and social order. ' And also, aimed at establishing 'an advanced democratic society'. The aim of this committee is as ambitious as it is necessary. It pursues the systematic examination of the quality of our democracy. We are all aware of the gravity of the crisis facing our country, a crisis of broad spectrum; economic, yes, but also social and, above all, political. And we know that in every crisis something breaks: ideas break, structures break, models break; what forces thought, thought as a capacity for analysis and reflection, and this requires assuming and even sharing that citizens show a distrust of their institutions as it had never been manifested in democracy. Indeed, we are witnessing with deep concern the loss of prestige of our institutions, only comparable to the increase in disaffection on the part of the citizenry towards many of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the states are based on very solid foundations that emanate from their institutions; institutions such as projections of the democratic building, thus creating and shaping multiple spaces of coexistence. They are, in short, the vertebrate references of the democratic functioning, but for various reasons some of these institutions, valid in their concept and in their origin, have been degraded in recent times by devaluing the very concept of social state that we have given ourselves. We all know, and there is broad unanimity in our doctrine, that the social state is not a being but an act, a way of acting by the public power. And the truth is that, sometimes for individual behaviors and others because they have not or have not been able to fulfill their constitutional and regulatory role, many of our institutions end up moving away from the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that I will not find anything that you do not know if I tell you that this profound political and institutional crisis has reached unknown levels so far with the maximum exponent of corruption. Corruption such as misuse or abuse of public power for personal and private benefit. But at this moment I prefer to stay with its original meaning, the term corruption, of the Latin corruption, corruptionis, in turn of the prefix of intensity with - and break Yes, they have heard it well, exactly we are talking about it, corruption breaks in pieces our model of coexistence. [[break, break, break, break, break up, break up, break up, ……]] Perhaps we should pay more attention to the teachings of people like American sociologist Sutherland when he comes to express that few mirrors can give back the image of reality as clearly as crime. As Klitgaard, a former Harvard and Yale academic, explains, corruption is a crime of calculation, not a crime of passion. I share his conclusion that corruption is not only, but also a problem of individuals lacking ethics, but fundamentally a problem of systems. I know that it is not just a national phenomenon and that international environments focus on them. The fight against corruption has been driven by a number of international treaties, highlighting that of the Organization of American States of 1996 or that of the United Nations of 2003, and all seek the same: to strengthen and harmonize environmental, commercial and fiscal rules to eliminate legal loopholes that may make corruption possible. In the European Union it can be a prototype of this fight OLAF and its derivatives: the Technical and Scientific Centre or its Counter-Fraud Coordination Committee, enjoying with great prestige the actions of Greco, sponsored by the Council of Europe. [[Cocoa]] [[Rumors]] But let's focus on ideas and our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to address a serious and profound process, a process that affects the most important part of the democratic system: the legitimization of the institutions and their representatives; in short, the confidence of citizens in their political system. [[Rumors]] Indeed, citizen credit in institutions and the social legitimacy of the whole democratic system are strongly linked to the capacity of institutions themselves and legislation to generate confidence in the functioning of citizens, so that they can be perceived as reliable and effective instruments. Here they will allow me some reflections of the Korean master Hang: Transparency and power are badly endured. And above them, there has to be trust. We have to move forward because trust is much more and means that, despite not knowing everything, of everyone and everything, we can believe in it. Values such as honesty, loyalty, merit, or capacity take on all their meaning. Trust relieves us of having to know him or everything. Moreover, the demand for infinite transparency is only heard where there is no confidence and, believe me, absolute, total control would annihilate freedom of action and cause uniformity. [[The Rumors Continue]] That is not the society we should want. This does not mean - I hope no one has misunderstood it - no controls; on the contrary, I am aware that the cases of corruption that daily occupy the personal information and actions that pollute the representative entity, including the use of lies in the parliamentary seat or in the media, are problems that we are constantly seeing in the social climate that has affected us. If deliberate generalizations and exaggerations are added to this by those who fight democracy, the institutional crisis is served. Also from the parliamentary seat we must examine whether, by making appointments to various bodies and institutions that have been assigned to us by legal mandate, we have acted with rigour and the necessary and reciprocal generosity in consensusing them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must review the criteria for appointments to various bodies and institutions. We need to look at the parliamentary system itself. But this audit should not be limited to the diagnosis, it is necessary to achieve the ultimate objective of fighting and eliminating corruption and everything that constitutes an obstacle, a wall, between the citizen and his or her institutions. To achieve this goal, there is no other mechanism than to make proposals for institutional and legal reforms. As a lawyer, I am convinced that the institutional system and citizenship are two indissoluble notions; moreover, they are two principles that reinforce each other, interact. An effective system is equivalent to a citizenship that has become the centre of political, economic and social activity and a strong citizenship necessarily generates an increasingly efficient system. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you set up a committee to analyse, agree and propose the necessary legislative measures and amendments to strengthen democratic institutions; to strengthen these institutions by improving political representation and citizen participation; to regulate more comprehensively the concepts of public and elected office interests; to combat and prevent corruption more effectively and to strengthen the impartiality and independence of constitutional and regulatory bodies. The commission before you is intended to be much more than a parallel or early trial of those in our courts. It is not a question of studying those cases of most alarming corruption, but of determining the failures or failures of the system that have allowed it. It is not a question of turning Parliament into a television set or a pseudo-court of justice; it is a question of Congress being the place from which the reforms of the parliamentary system, the electoral system, participation and open government, the fight against corruption and the very statutes that must govern the exercise of politics can be conducted. [[Rumors]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I don't wish us luck, but don't get me wrong, because I think luck has a random component that we can't afford anymore. We are obliged to lead that demand for change, to create it and to seek consensus, because only in this way will politics regain the lost ground and our political system regain its strength. In short, we must regain the passion for democracy between citizens and thus the credibility lost to society; reform our laws and our functioning so that politics recovers affection and accessions; reform the functioning of our institutions so that they are open, participatory and transparent, and thus restore confidence to citizens in democracy. The creation of this committee is only the beginning, but it is a good beginning. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u112	Thank you, Mr. Campo. For the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised at the absence of the leaders of the Socialist Party and the People's Party in this second plenary session, in addition to the importance of the issues we are dealing with here. I am also surprised by some absences in the seats. A veteran MP told me that there are a lot of people here for what is common in Congress. Perhaps we are too naive, but we understand that the job of a Member of Parliament one day is his seat, and I believe that the citizens of our country should think the same. [[Rumors]] It is an honour for me to present to you the reasons why our group wants this Parliament to have a committee to investigate corruption. In the light of today's events and statements, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it would seem like a perfect day for this Parliament to have this committee. The sad thing is that in Spain for a long time it has been a good day for the Spanish Parliament to have a specific mechanism to help citizens to be protected from corruption. To name all the cases of corruption that in recent years have served to humiliate the dignity of our country could consume all the time I have in this intervention and even more, but allow me to repeat some names: Gürtel, Púnica, Pokémon, Palma Arena, Noos, the EREs of Andalusia, Brugal, 3%, Aquamed, Bárcenes... Those significant ones reveal well the cancer of our democracy and that cancer is not fought with good words and good gestures, it is fought with deeds and acts. Corruption, ladies and gentlemen, is not a controllable sum of rotten apples that occur in all areas and in all parties, corruption is not an inevitable consequence of human nature, as the defenders of political cynicism claim; corruption for misfortune is a form of government, it is a set of political mechanisms that serve to have power, to send those who do not run for election. Corruption is based on inequality; the most unequal countries are more corrupt countries; where there is more inequality, where there is more social injustice, corruption is rampant. Corruption is what makes a minority appropriate to what is common to all. Corruption worries the citizens of our country, but besides worrying them it costs them a lot of money. According to a report by the National Competition Market Commission, the cost overruns generated in public procurement by corruption amount to nothing more and nothing less than 4.5% of gross domestic product; nothing more and nothing less than €48 billion. Then some wonder where we want to get the money, because we have it pretty clear. According to some media, the Punica - I think it would be all right at the moment to remember, Mr Rivera, that those who claim to fight corruption perhaps should not support the Government of the Punica in Madrid - came to cost 250 million euros, which is what it costs for 41,500 students to pay their university tuition or what it costs 125,000 days of income in a hospital. It is sad that we have had to come to March 2016 and that some of us have had to come to this Parliament so that it will be possible, at last, for a committee to fight corruption. I am pleased today that we have been able to agree with the Socialist Group, with the United Left and with the Compromises to make a compromise amendment and that this committee becomes a reality. I hope that this agreement that we have been able to reach today will become an agreement to make a Government in this country. I have heard Mrs Luz Rodriguez say something that I liked very much - we have repeated it to the point of satiety in the last two years - and it makes me happy to hear it from a representative of the Socialist Party, and that is that the homeland is people. Fighting corruption is defending the homeland, fighting corruption is defending social justice and combating inequality. Welcome to the true patriots' side. Being patriots has nothing to do with proclaiming the unity of Spain, being patriots has to do with defending people's rights and fighting corruption with deeds. [[Applauds]] I hope that we can continue to agree that this country will have a government that will finally end corruption as a form of government. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u114	For the Joint Group, first of all, Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u115	In the Left-People's Unity we firmly believe that transparency, citizen participation and democratic control of institutions are indispensable if we talk about a real struggle for democratic regeneration and against corruption, a corruption that is systemic and not exceptional as, challenging the facts and empirical data, some persist in defending. Therefore, because it is systemic and not accidental, it is useless to fight against the consequences as well as to do nothing against the causes or the causes, both corruptors and the tools that make it possible. Because things like the dissolution of the boundaries between the private and the public, issues like fraudulent privatizations or outsourcings are the ones that create the broth of cultivation and then meet with all the cases of corruption that wake us up every morning. Therefore, the claim to the establishment of this commission, from our point of view, must be not only for the toughening of penalties and punitive treatment of the issues - which is very good and which will be appreciated, as well as the end of the crackdowns and other such issues - but also to combat and deal, once and for all, with the causes of the issues that cause corruption and make it possible. And in the spirit that this is, once and for all, and not only that we talk about the end of the process, but where it is created, we invite everyone to vote in favour of the creation of this committee. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u116	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. While this afternoon we opened this legislature here and threatened our digestion with a few sufflamas for the unity of the homeland, I have allowed myself to consult the CIS's concerns of just a week ago. The two main concerns were unemployment, with 78% of concern among citizens, and corruption, with 47%, which increased by 8 percentage points compared to January. On the other hand, Catalonia's independence concerned only 1.4% of its citizens. This Parliament has to be the reflection of the problems that worry on the street - it should be the reflection of the problems that worry on the street - but while in Valencia we are witnessing an incessant mascletà of corruption that is growing day by day, that is growing and corraling the main leaders of the Valencian People's Party, Presidents of the Council, Councillors, the Mayor of Valencia, this afternoon you have preferred to inaugurate the legislature to give Spanish diplomas and to say who are the good Spaniards and the bad Spaniards. It sounds to me like Valencia, when the Valencian PP gave diplomas of good Valencians and bad Valencians and said that the other Valencians were traitors. [[Applauds]] It is very convenient to present here this proposal that we have signed together with the comrades of the PSOE, Popular Unity and Podemos, because it echoes the concerns that people have. I come from a land especially punished, but not the only one, eh?, not the only one, not the only one. These are the cases of corruption Brugal, Gürtel, Emarsa, Cooperation, Taula, Fair Valencia... and yesterday the People's Party was accused. How many schools could have been built, how many hospitals could have been built, how many companies would have had a viability, how many workers would have had a job, how much money has been stolen from citizens? All of this has led to disaffection and mistrust in the institutions, and that is why we now understand - I conclude - the timing of the creation of this standing anti-corruption commission, so that it can analyse the causes and propose the necessary reforms to increase the democratic quality of our institutions. I understand that the People's Party will make good that wish announced by Mrs Cospedal, that it is the party that has fought the most against corruption of all of us here, and will vote in favour of the establishment of this standing anti-corruption commission. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. [[The President took the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u118	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. No one has asked for the counter turn, so we are entering the position-fixing turn. Mr Legarda has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing the creation of a permanent non-legislative committee for the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms. All of them have as their ultimate object the phenomenon of political disaffection and affect the legitimization of institutions and their representatives. The structural causes of Europe are the economic and social crisis, globalisation and its impact on the position of States. Corruption and its impunity ultimately lead to cesura between society and its institutions. This Commission is therefore the subject of such diverse and disparate things as strengthening democratic institutions, improving political representation, improving the internal democracy of political parties, improving citizen participation, improving transparency, regulating conflicts of interest of political and elected officials, as well as public officials, combating and preventing corruption or strengthening the impartiality and independence of constitutional and regulatory bodies. I am pleased that our parliamentary group does not share the joint treatment in the same committee of everything that causes disaffection between citizens and democratic institutions. The prevention, control and repression of corruption cannot and should not be mixed with other issues that, without being so, can also generate political disaffection. Thus, it is not the same corruption as the processing, in one way or another, of a decree-law, nor is it the illegal financing of a political party as the fact that the election of its candidates for the Presidency of the Government is not carried out by direct and secret suffrage. Nor is the procedure for setting up commissions of inquiry the same as the principles of good regulation - necessity, proportionality, etc. - or the regulation of electoral debates. It is not the same regulation of popular legislative initiatives or the cessation of senior positions when they are opened to oral trial. Nor is the regulation of lobbies the same as the lack of what is called a legislative footprint. It could continue to list in detail these binomials of possible reforms of a diverse nature which, being solvents for the affection of citizens to the institutions, some come from the commission of criminal or administrative illegalities and, others, are clearly improved ways of proceeding but which do not give rise to legal-penal or administrative reproach. They cannot be treated together, because there is a risk that everything will be seen by society as different manifestations of corruption, and this House should not walk in this direction. For our part, we support the creation of a commission for the prevention, control and repression of corruption stricto sensu, but not that other reforms that diagnose the causes and provide the appropriate reforms to seal the caesura between society and the institutions are addressed in the same committee. Finally, with regard to the normativeism that is reflected in the proposals for the establishment of these commissions, since the problem that is intended to be addressed by the lack of legislation is literally said: the problem lies in the lack of legislation, in the loopholes to corruption and in the establishment of effective sanctioning mechanisms. Since the time of the Count-Duke of Olivares we have heard this, but this is not in our opinion the core of the problem. The core of the problem is a lack of morality both public and private and this is not exclusively arranged by faith in the magic of the rules. For this reason, and being faced with a matter of great public importance, we will not oppose it, but we will not support it with the proposed content either. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u120	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives put to us by the Socialist and Podemos parliamentary groups and the spokespersons for the United Left and Compromises are really ambitious and, in his speech, the spokesman for the Basque parliamentary group pointed out that perhaps the agenda before us is tremendously broad and too ambitious about the capabilities that a committee in this Parliament can have and can even lead to a certain confusion of public opinion. But it is true that we all need to regain confidence in the system and institutions and, therefore, a parliamentary instrument to enable us to address issues of concern to citizens that have marked the social and political agenda in recent years. From this point of view, without denying a certain scepticism about the effective capacity of a committee to address these issues, the Catalan Group will support its creation. [[Democracy and Freedom]] We are convinced that today we have serious problems that corrod democracy, we are convinced that corruption is a bad business. Mr. Iglesias said that the most unequal countries are the countries with the highest rate of corruption. It is also true that the countries most open to the global economy, the most competitive, are also the countries with the lowest level of corruption. If you look at the indices of corruption, social equality and entrepreneurship, you will see that they are the same countries. Therefore, that is the way to go; there is full coincidence. But we are also convinced that a committee of these characteristics cannot be a committee of the 'and you plus'. The debate that does not generate confidence among citizens in relation to corruption is that we turn this Parliament, this Congress, this committee into an area of exclusive political wear and tear among parliamentary groups in relation to the issues of corruption. That will neither create trust between citizens nor allow us to address the reforms that are likely to be needed. If I may introduce a point not of a certain scepticism but of a realistic approach to this discussion, are the problems of disaffection towards politics, of political corruption, of impoverishment of our institutions directly linked to our legal framework? Is the legal framework that we have had in recent years, and specifically in the past parliamentary term - must the People's Group be acknowledged that important reforms have been adopted in this area - far removed from the legal framework of the most advanced states in our environment? Is the problem in the laws that we have, or perhaps the problems that exist in this area have to do with issues that are not as simple as making more and new laws? In the Spanish state the idea remains that, in the face of any social pathology, the answer is more normative, and perhaps we are leaders in lawmaking, but our problems of disaffection and corruption continue there. We have governance problems in the institutions and perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, we have fundamental cultural problems that are not solved exclusively by legislative changes. In these problems of culture, of substance, which have to do with the confidence of the citizens towards the institutions, that we are really able to turn this ambitious agenda into a possible agenda, that not only legislative changes are proposed, but cultural changes are introduced to find the support of the Catalan Group. [[Democracy and Freedom]] Let's see what this commission gives. The preparation of the work plan announced at the end of the text to be put to the vote will be essential. My group calls on the other groups to be as serious as possible in the construction of this plan, because the worst thing that could happen to us is that our rhetorical discourse, with the creation of this anti-corruption commission, would simply remain in an exhibition once again of political differences, of dirty rags, of what degrades the confidence of citizens in these problems. At least that's gonna be our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u122	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening. From Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya we defend a commission of inquiry into corruption as we have already presented in the previous legislature, a commission of inquiry such as that in the Parliament of Catalonia, in which they have appeared corrupt, and where politicians have been forced to something that is not very common here, which is to give explanations. This Parliament, Congress, the Lower House, must ask for explanations from parties that have systematically practiced corruption. Voters, ladies and gentlemen, must know before voting who lied to them, who cheated on them and who stole them, because corruption is a theft of citizenship, a theft with all the letters, and an attack on democracy. So much so that we believe that the policies of the Government have largely been the result of corruption. I'll explain myself. It was not that politics was sprinkled with corruption, but that politics were corruption in themselves. We believe that there have been politicians who did not care to harm the majority of the population in exchange for receiving money for it, no matter whether in Genoa or Switzerland. Among other things, we believe that it is necessary to investigate whether land liberalization was made thinking of the common good or whether it was because some companies simply knocked on the door of politicians offering them envelopes, suitcases, yachts and chalets. In the same way, it would be necessary to investigate whether there is anything strange in which the drivers of labour reform, who seek rights and legalize the exploitation of workers, would give money to the party that approved it, or whether it is a coincidence that the Hacienda devotes 90% to the investigation of the middle classes while three quarters of the fraud is precisely in the big fortunes, or simply that there are more policemen following social movements than political parties that have been robbing for years and years. [[Applauds]] We also consider that there are indications - not a few, many indications - to investigate whether the fact that we pay the most expensive light in Europe - obviously harming people and businesses - is due to a revolving door set on the axis of a corruption that is felt by former government presidents and former ministers on the board of directors, and that has unjustifiably generated a debt of more than EUR 30 billion. [[Applauds]] The Spanish debt is essentially the result of corruption, the benefits of oligopolies, the pharaonic works, the failed and unnecessary projects that have grown in the shadow of envelopes. On the other hand, if big companies and big fortunes are so scandalously benefited while the rest of the people are harmed, it is not because of ideology, but because big fortunes and big companies buy political power. This is the only way to explain legislation tailored to large enterprises and to the detriment of SMEs and the social economy. I'm finishing up. In fact, corruption is allowing uncompetitive companies, far from living their competitive capacity and innovation, to live off the balls that stick to the shadow of laws tailored to corruption. That, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is clear: the neoliberalism they preach turns out to be a scam when the law of the envelope is imposed and not the law of the market. Democracy is a scam when envelopes containing notes weigh much more than envelopes containing votes. The problem is not punctual. Corruption has rotted the entire political system. The laws we have largely respond to a corrupt system, and new laws must be made to ensure that the popular voice is responded to rather than the voice of IBEX 35. We are going to make a real constituent process in Catalonia for this. We're going to make a new country. We're going to make the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Villegas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u125	Mr President - not the government, which is not - ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal to talk about corruption and democratic quality. We believe that it is a shared concern, at least it should be, for all the groups that make up the House. Indeed, corruption and the lack of quality of our democratic system have caused a crisis of citizens' confidence in the institutions, and especially in the political parties, a disaffection against which we are obliged to fight, a disaffection that is justified by this rigour of cases of corruption that sprinkle our lives day and day as well. Almost all the old parties that have held power plots have been splashed by one or another case of political corruption: the lords of the People's Party, the lords of the Socialist Party, the lords of Convergence, who now go together with those of Esquerra in Junts pel Yes. All the old parties have been splashed, and some of the new ones, Mr. Iglesias, seem to be also being investigated by the UDEF for possible illegal financing from foreign powers. [[Applauds]] We'll see how it ends. What I mean is that they are not specific cases, they are cases that have affected all institutional levels, national level, autonomous level, municipal level, and most political parties. These are not ad hoc cases, I insist, they are plots of corruption that have assaulted power. Those plots have assaulted power, are undermining and eroding the pillars of our system, and certainly, as has been said by previous speakers, have also seriously affected the quality of our democracy. They have caused negative and harmful effects on the quality of our democracy and also economic damage. The economic effects of corruption have been discussed before, some of which amount to almost 50 billion. But beyond that there are other effects, such as that less competitive companies are being able to reach contracts to the detriment of more competitive companies, and that is a scourge for our country's competitiveness and economy. [[Applauds]] This also affects, as I said, not only the economy, but also our political system and our democratic system. The shadow of suspicion extends over political decision-making, which is not known whether it is being taken in favour of the general interest or in favour of the interest of the highest payer. Another example of how corruption affects our democratic system is the unequal struggle that can occur in the elections themselves when some parties have been illegally financing themselves. This leads to inequality in the democratic contest, and therefore inequality in the results as well. This is a challenge that we must face. This new stage, which some believe should be opened in Spain, which has been opened since 20 December, must have as its main objective the eradication of political corruption. We must eradicate it at least as a phenomenon of our system. I'm sure we won't be able to stop some chorizo from stealing, that's impossible, but we do have to stop it from being part of the system. We must prevent the parties from taking advantage of corruption to finance themselves. We have to get the corruption plots out of the democratic system. Citizens will therefore support this standing commission for audit and democratic quality, for the fight against corruption and for institutional and legal reforms. We believe that it is good - even if all parties or the majority are on our agenda and we insist on the need to take action in many respects: to improve the fight against tax fraud, to change the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, to resolve the independence of justice, to provide sufficient resources for justice itself to fight; I insist that we all take measures in our programmes to help fight corruption - that this commission be set up which can in some way ensure, centralize, propose measures, and above all can assess whether the measures are working well or not. This committee is certainly not going to solve the problem of corruption; we have to fight in many areas, we have to fight on many fronts, but we believe it can help coordinate measures to combat political corruption. That is why, as I said, from Citizens we will vote in favour of setting up this committee. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u126	Thank you, Mr. Villegas. Mrs Moro has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard here a number of issues that are coming to mix, I would like to start by saying that everyone is sure that we would like to be talking about another topic this afternoon; we would like to worry about other issues of our citizens. However, we have an obligation to worry, as has been said, about what is affecting them psychologically, in their spirit and credibility vis-à-vis the institutions. But society demands rigor; let's see if we can achieve it in this legislature and in this House to impose rigour and seriousness to address the scourge of corruption and to improve democratic quality. The passage of time sometimes makes very good wines, but on other occasions it deteriorates them. This deterioration should not lead us to deceive or to waste our time, but rather to assume it and to face it, to plant its face. The past legislature was a highly advanced legislature in measures to improve the legal instruments for them to be used by those democratic institutions, part of the rule of law, that allow our democracy to work, our democracy to grow and not to deteriorate. It advanced into a broad programme of democratic regeneration, the largest in our history, but from the perspective of building, of appreciating what others had done, which many political groups are forgetting. Since the first Council of Ministers of the 2011-2015 legislature, important institutional reforms have been launched to improve the quality of democracy and restore citizens' confidence in institutions. We needed - we still need - more agile and efficient administrations. But it has also worked - because it is also needed - on more transparent administrations and institutions, more open, more controlled, and with managers subject to inescapable ethical principles that become legal and certainly legal principles. In addition, our President raised the need to reach a pact for transparency and against corruption, but after a long dialogue it was not possible to reach that pact, although it did form part of a legislative programme of regeneration that is in force, and that has undoubtedly designed a very different normative context for us; a normative context that we would have to remember here, however, that it does not necessarily have retroactive application, because often, with our sterile polemics, we confuse the citizens and think that we are doing nothing useful. Everything is better, but of course progress has been made - and much has been made - with the reform of the Organic Law on the Financing of Political Parties, with the Law on Transparency and Access to Information and Good Government, with the reform of the Criminal Code, with the determination of measures in the Criminal Code that have led to the criminalization of the irregular financing of political parties, and that political parties as legal persons may also be holders of these procedures. Then let us not say that we have not made any progress; we have made much progress in the control of financial activity, in the regulation of the exercise of the high office, in more agile procedures through a reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which certainly still has to do much more. We have also moved forward with the implementation of something that was very necessary and that we were all being asked to do, the Office of Recovery and Asset Management. Does this mean that the work was completed? We never think about it, nor do we think about it now. Therefore, despite that journey, despite the fact, we believe that it is necessary to attend to the voice of the citizenry and to face the incorporation of other instruments, and above all to improve those mechanisms that can attend to prevention - probably what has failed most at other times - and to stop throwing the stuff at our head, because as was said in a text by all known, no one is free, and therefore, if no one is free, do not throw the first stone. Here they have made lists that lack the truth, that do not look at themselves and that only look at others. That way we can't work. We want to work in this House, in fact the People's Parliamentary Group has contributed to that compromise, which I thank for the work and the good tone of the groups, so that this committee is a reality. Ojo, it is not a commission that replaces judges, it is not a commission of inquiry, it is not a commission that appears ex novo, it is not a commission that replaces the other legislative commissions. It is a committee that allows progress to be made in working instruments, in instruments of regeneration, in assessing what we have done, in order to overcome things that have not served, in order to incorporate other instruments. That is what the citizens are asking of us and there they are going to find the People's Party. I'm sure democracy will finally thank us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Moro. - Request from the Parliamentary Group for the establishment of a permanent non-legislative commission on children's and adolescents' rights, CPDIA. [[File number 155/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u129	We are now dealing with the request of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group for the creation of a permanent non-legislative commission on the rights of children and adolescents. In defence of the proposal put forward by your group, Mrs Montero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group today proposes to set up a permanent non-legislative committee on children's and adolescents' rights. It is an honour for me that my first speech in this House is to defend the establishment of this committee. I cannot begin without emphasising that this proposal would not have been possible without the obsessive work of our Member Ione Belarus - who is sitting here - and of Podemos's children's rights team, Marta - who is up there - Aurea and David, and above all without the long, courageous and tenacious journey of civil society organizations working daily in our country and throughout the world to guarantee the rights of children and adolescents. [[Applauds]] Organizations like Unicef, like Save the Children and others grouped in the platform of children's organizations that are also here today defending this proposal, and to which we thank not only that they are here, but all the work that has made it possible that today we are defending the creation of this commission for children and adolescents. Ladies and gentlemen, children and adolescents account for 17.9% of the total population in our country, there are 8,300,000 citizens whose rights are recognized by the national and international legislative framework, and therefore they must be able to exercise them in a real and effective way without distinction of any kind. They do not vote, but they are citizens of their own right. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, of the United Nations, served to recognize at the international level that their material, subjective and relational well-being should leave the private sphere in order to make children a public matter, and to recognize their status as citizens with rights to be guaranteed, which entail obligations and responsibilities for all adults, and in particular with special emphasis, for public institutions. Its ratification by Spain in 1990 obliges our country to ensure compliance with this convention through all the legislation in force, but the situation of children and adolescents in our country is of real social emergency. The fundamental rights of children are systematically violated in Spain without the necessary attention from public administrations. I'll just give you some data. Poverty and inequality have increased alarmingly in our country. Spain is the second most unequal country in the European Union and the OECD country where inequality has grown the most, only behind Cyprus. The number of millionaires has grown in our country by 40% during the crisis, while one third of the Spanish population is at risk of social exclusion or at risk of poverty. This situation is worsening for children and adolescents, as according to INE and Eurostat data, more than 30%, sometimes more than 35%, i.e. more than one third of the child population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. In addition, child poverty translates into higher costs in the medium term in terms of social and labour benefits and a lower quality of work. Investing in children is - even from a strictly economic point of view, if someone does not care about guaranteeing fundamental rights in our country - investing, he said, in society as a whole and in the country's prosperity and economic development. Spain continues to have a very high percentage of drop-out in education, which remains the highest in Europe. According to Save the Children, while households have lost on average more than 10% of their income, average household spending on education has had to increase by more than 30%. In turn, consolidated investment in education has fallen by almost 11 points in this period, not to mention the almost non-existent mechanisms for the participation of children in the social and political life of our country. These and other data that could be provided reflect the many challenges we have to address, and in particular the public policies that need to be developed to ensure the effective exercise of the rights of children and adolescents. It is impossible to mention them all, but I will mention only a few: to protect girls, boys and adolescents from all forms of violence, to promote child participation in institutions, to guarantee the right to decent and adequate housing, to prohibit forced evictions without housing alternatives, as well as cuts in supplies caused by poverty, because they are affecting millions of children and adolescents in our country. [[Applauds]] It also protected the rights of migrant families, relied on development cooperation and focused efforts on children and the development of the recently adopted Children's Strategy. In short, children and adolescents are directly or indirectly affected by all the policies on which this House legislates. In this regard, the new Act on the Protection of Children and Adolescents, adopted in the previous legislature, is undoubtedly a step recognised by all civil society organizations involved in this matter, but it is insufficient. We must recognize that there is a structural deficit in investment in children, and when there is a deficit of this kind it is impossible or enormously difficult to effectively develop the measures included in any law, among others in it. If we analyze the General Budgets of the State for 2016 we will see, for example, how there is a general increase in items that affect children directly or indirectly, but we are still far from the 2011 investment figures and those required by international agencies. The drastic reduction in unemployment benefits is particularly bloody, because this leads to the absence of any income in millions of households where children and adolescents live. We therefore believe that it is essential to promote a parliamentary space that will specifically address the development of proposals and the follow-up of public policies, which will ensure the effective implementation of the rights of children and adolescents in our country. We ask them for their most determined support for this. This committee must contribute the perspective of children from a rights-based perspective to the whole of parliamentary activity and to the monitoring of government action in the field of children, in all policies affecting children and adolescents directly or indirectly. A parliamentary follow-up that also strengthens the role of the current Children's Observatory, which has seen its ability to work greatly impaired due to a lack of budget. [[Rumors]] The commission should also ensure proper monitoring and evaluation of investment in children, as well as ensure the opening of a daily dialogue with civil society as a whole, and in particular those organizations that defend the rights of children and adolescents, so that the proposals of these children can be recognized in the daily activities of this House. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u131	A little silence, please, that's little left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u132	Finally, in our view, this committee should be the driving force behind measures that are highly demanded by civil society organizations, such as the State Pact for Children and the budget guarantee for investment in children, which is a proposal that arises from the organizations that are here today and that defend the rights of children and adolescents on a daily basis. Ladies and gentlemen, there are not many times when this House has the consensus of all political forces. Now we can do it and show that children's policies are for us and our priorities. Nelson Mandela said that there can be no more intense revelation of the soul of a society than the way it treats its children. Let us make the implementation of children's rights a broad State commitment. It may seem like a small thing, but in the matter of childhood we may be making history with the approval of this committee. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Montero. To set the positions of the groups, I have the floor first, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ardanza. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. With regard to this proposal for the establishment of a permanent non-legislative committee on children's rights and adolescents, I say to you that in principle my group has nothing to object to. However, I also say to you that we have serious doubts about the proposed functions and their scope. A first reading of these functions allows us to observe already interferences and even invasion of competences belonging to other powers of the State. And I am referring, both to interference with the powers of the executive, and to government action itself, which involves, among other things, the implementation, coordination, planning and evaluation of the implementation of policies in this field and other cross-cutting ones, as well as to the exclusive and specific powers of the autonomous communities and their respective parliaments. And with regard to interference with powers of other powers, we must warn that this Congress legislates and controls government action, within the sphere of competence of the State, but it cannot perform functions of administrative activity, including jurisdictional, such as ensuring that all laws, policies, mechanisms, plans, programmes and budgets are in line with the best interests of the minor and other similar persons, and even less so if the guarantee is not within the competence of the State. This may not be the intention of the proposal submitted. However, the ambiguity and overstatement in the wording of the proposal allow for wide and wide-ranging interpretations. [[Rumors]] Nor can this Congress invade through the creation of non-legislative standing committees the areas of competence of the autonomous communities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u135	Wait a minute, Mrs. Ardanza. I ask again for silence, because I don't know how they feel about the volume of these conversations in the seats, but here they do. So a little respect for who's intervening. You can go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. In this regard, the commission to be set up cannot be a step ahead of the realization of a state pact for investment in children based on, as stated in the initiative, the objectives of the European Union 2020 strategy, the national programme for State reforms, the national plans for children and adolescents and social inclusion, the European Commission Recommendation 2013: Investing in children, breaking the circle of disadvantages; the new universal agenda for sustainable development, the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child in Geneva or the incorporation of a specific package of urgent measures against child poverty and social exclusion, developing a State strategy for reducing child poverty, incorporating a disaggregated and transparent budget into the State's general budgets and equalling investment in children with the European average. It cannot be because all the objectives, recommendations, plans, agendas and pacts I have just mentioned invade, to a greater or lesser extent, the competences of the Autonomous Communities and, in particular, the exclusive competences of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. The competence in the field of social services, the fight against exclusion and the system of protection for children is exclusive to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, although we are aware that in some matters affecting people, for example in matters of civil law, basic legislation is the responsibility of the State. Moreover, it can be seen that the fight against child poverty must be fought against poverty in families, because in wealthy families there are no poor children, and that is why cross-cutting, fundamentally economic policies must be carried out, and these are also unique and exclusive to the Basque Autonomous Community. Finally, in general terms, the proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, regarding the development of the functions of the commission through different groups and commissions that, in turn, work in coordination with other commissions, subcommittees and working groups, with the aim of transversalizing the approach to children's rights, given precisely the transversal nature of policies aimed at eradicating poverty, raises great doubts as to its operationality, since it can slow down and delay the work of the different commissions in excess. For all that, the Basque Group is going to abstain at the time of the vote to establish the permanent non-legislative committee on children's and adolescents' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Ardanza. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ribera has the floor. [[Democracy and Freedom]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u138	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to be able to fix the position of the Catalan Group on this proposal put forward by Podemos. As you know, the Catalan Group, Democrácia i Llibertat, comes to this Congress inspired by a positive spirit, although we are called independenceists, that we are. We are inspired by the spirit of making progress in everything we can in Catalonia and, of course, since we are still in Spain, also in the Spanish State. That is why we welcome this proposal and it is very gratifying - perhaps to me, because I am a new Member of Parliament who is opening me up with this - that in a country which has no Government there are commissions and that we are going to create them. That makes me reflect on whether perhaps the Government is not as important as some believe so that this country can function, or at least the Government we have. Having said that, with regard to the proposal that has been put to us, we are in a totally positive position. It cannot be otherwise because childhood is a stage of vital transcendence. One cannot become an adult without going through childhood, and how one lives at that time marks, and how: if one is poor, what possibilities one has, what resources one can count on, what support there is for the family and what support there is for society in general. It is not only a proposal that is protected by laws, because it is marked by laws and must be enforced; it is marked by the United Nations Convention for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, which Spain ratified in 1990; it is marked by the Spanish Constitution, which we also want to comply with in this aspect which speaks of protection, and it is also marked by the resolutions of the European Union, in particular this last November 2015, when it says that Spain is among the nineteen European countries that have a higher risk of exclusion from poverty. Here we can't breastfeed, here we can't say that we are the first; we are the first, but the other way around, by the tail. We are the second, after Greece, to reduce the risk of exclusion from poverty among children. We cannot be very proud of this, but precisely because we are positive, we want to support this proposal, because with a committee the problems are not solved but it helps to give visibility to the issues, helps children to be represented, to be able to make comprehensive and cross-cutting policies, listening to social entities and professionals who dedicate all their efforts, to parents who are without resources and to children who are helpless because they are vulnerable. That is why we will support this proposal. On the other hand - the representative and spokesman of Podemos has said very well - it is not only a question of poverty, it is an integral question. Children are helpless because they are vulnerable on social networks, when they are alone in front of the computer and can have access to illegal content or that may harm their growth and development of their personality. In education, in health, in all this we need a commission that will fully ensure the policies that all public power must apply in order to have a country as God commands, that country much better than we want. In Catalonia - and it is not to breastfeed either - a commission of this style is already functioning with the unanimity of all. I would have liked there to have been unanimity here on this issue. I would have liked there to have been unanimity to let the Catalans express themselves, but also unanimity on this issue, because it is important, because children are of all people, children have no political colour, children are at the heart of democracy and freedom policies. That is why, because we want them primarily to be cared for in education, in health and in everything, we want this committee to be set up. We also want a pact for childhood, as we have in Catalonia. I'm really sorry if someone's got a bad taste, but they do. In Catalonia there is a pact for children unanimously as well. With a Government of Convergence i Unió - I am very sorry if someone knows badly, but it was so - the Commission for Children was created, with a Government of Convergence i Unió the Pact for Children was approved, which is not a pact of political parties, which is a social pact, a pact of all, with more than seventy entities from the big to the small. Is this possible in this Congress? I'd like to think so. For the time being, we have had one abstention. I do not understand why this amendment has been tabled - or is going to be tabled, we will see this - to remove points 6 and 7, which speak of this state pact for investment, when in reality it was not binding on this pact, it was only said that the creation of this commission could be a preliminary step towards this state pact. What's the fear? What's the fear? I don't understand. The least I understand is when the person who proposed this amendment in the Catalan Parliament this morning wanted to force the Government of the Generalitat to commit itself to reaching the highest levels of European countries in terms of investment in children. You can't go with two measuring rods. Either we are or we are not, or we are or we are not, here and there, defending what is important, not according to who rules or who can rule. Regardless of this, our position, even if the proposing group accepts that these points 6 and 7, which I also do not understand what they are doing wrong, because what they are talking about is that this committee...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u139	Mrs Ribera, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u140	Yes, thank you. Whether we accept it or not, we are going to vote in favour of this proposal, which we consider to help us make positive progress and which we applaud. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u141	Thank you, Mrs Ribera. Mr Olòriz has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening, good evening. I certainly do not give any new news if I find that in this House Members of Parliament have very different views on many issues, but I also do not think that anyone in this House will stop believing that the issue of child poverty, children's rights and adolescence is a very serious and priority issue. Save the Children says that one in three children in Spain live in poverty or at risk of exclusion and that the impact on the crisis on children has been disproportionate to other groups. If this is so, if the situation is so difficult, what have we done wrong, whether in diagnosis, in the media or in both? My group is concerned about poverty, the lack of protection for children, not only in Cornellá or Lleida, in Reus or in Ripoll, but also and with the same commitment in Madrid, Bilbao or Seville. We are not alien to suffering and we will fight in Catalonia and in this Congress to eradicate it. I can assure you that until the last second of our stay in this Congress we will fight for a situation of equality and the fight against poverty, because we are Republicans and because we Catalans are so. A home is poor, says La Caixa in his latest social studies report, if he has less than 780 euros in the case of a single parent or 1,264 for a couple with two children. Therefore, in Spain, a poor severe would be a girl who lives with her brother and her parents in a home where income does not exceed 630 euros per month. If the priorities of the Government of Spain are laid down in this Congress in the commissions that are set up, it seems to the Republican Left of Catalonia very well that the permanent non-legislative commission for the protection of the rights of children and adolescents is created, but we are more concerned, much more, about the agenda, the priorities and what we will do. It's because I'm already an age, but I feel represented by a few words that Camus said: Aging is moving from passion to compassion. This morning, with my compassion, I had a few words with Ione, who is the same age as my daughter, and I think that in this case we will not only need compassion, but also passion, and the duration of this legislature would be a success. If we were able to diagnose, put in place the means and eradicate child poverty, it would be worth it to have come to this Congress in this legislature, because we would have helped preserve the rights of children and adolescents as never before, with sense and sensitivity. [[Applauds]] We can do it; it's in our hands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which has also put forward a proposal on this initiative, I have the floor, Mrs Miguel.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Podemos-En Communos Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group is presenting this proposal for the creation of a non-legislative parliamentary committee on the rights of children and adolescents, justifying this need on two fundamental axes that we share. First of all, it's justice. It is true that our own Constitution, since the acceptance of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, places the child at the forefront of the development of policies and legislation to ensure its well-being and full development. Secondly - and this House has also debated today with regard to the Toledo Pact - there is a demographic reason. The alarming ageing of our population makes it particularly important to deal specifically with the problems and needs of children and their families. And, above all, my parliamentary group supports the creation of this committee because the group of children and adolescents is formed in Spain by a large number of individuals who deserve to have a space in this institution, where the measures and policies that affect them are discussed in a specific and specialized way. Our amendment, as our colleague from Democrácia i Llibertat has commented, is not intended to restrict this proposal, but to make it more adaptable, more likely to consensus by the whole House, because we believe that it is very important that this committee be set up. Then, within it, we will be able to discuss the pacts, the budget increase and all that we think is appropriate. We are pleased that at least in this respect the House has been able to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u145	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u146	... to reach a broad consensus. My group hopes that in the coming days we will be able to reach other broad agreements on no less fundamental issues than all or at least the vast majority of us share. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miguel. Mrs Rodríguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u148	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin this intervention, which refers to children, even if it is quickly, remembering my childhood. I am a small-town girl and studied in a public school, with good resources and good teachers. I had access to reading thanks to public library centers, I was served in a magnificent health center and I was able to go to university and study thanks to a scholarship system. This is my reality, but also that of millions of Spanish children. I wanted to start this way to thank the work done by those who, when we were children, sat in these seats or ruled our country. It is always good to be grateful and I wanted to start this intervention like this. [[Applauds]] When some of us were just born, the foundations of the welfare state were laid in our country, which allowed us to advance individually and as a society. The commitment to public and universal health ensured the protection of the health of all children. The commitment to quality public education made it possible for the sons and daughters of working families to gain access to university, an unprecedented advance in equal opportunities in our country. These milestones, ladies and gentlemen, occurred during socialist governments, but we did not make them alone, but at the hands of society. It is a collective success of our country. And in this House too, ladies and gentlemen, many years ago - for example, in 1991, and I am not referring to my group, but rather to another, the CDS Parliamentary Group - a presentation on the rights of the child was proposed within the Committee on Social Policy and Employment to ensure the current situation of children. I mean with this that there is already a lot of progress in our country. It is true that in the last parliamentary term my parliamentary group has worked on numerous initiatives that have been mentioned here, so I will not repeat them, but unfortunately the initiatives that have been translated here have not resulted in good governance of the Government; the consequences of the People's Party Government in terms of inequality and social injustice, which were basically suffered later by the weakest, including boys and girls, have also been mentioned. The past was a legislature marked by the combination of high figures of unemployment, precariousness, reduction of social protection, which, as I say, brought those data to which has already been referred and I will not repeat. I just want to thank the entities, the non-governmental organizations, Save the Children, Unicef, Caritas and so many others, who have provided us with data during these four years of People's Party government to know the reality of what was happening in our country, but, ladies and gentlemen, after December 20, we cannot settle for this. That's good news. I congratulate the proposing group and encourage them to launch from this new House, which represents the Congress of Deputies after the elections, a clear message of prioritization of children's policies. It is good that we do so since the Congress of Deputies, but with the creation of this committee it is not enough. What do I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen? That it is very good that we have this committee here to deal in a unique way with the problems, challenges and opportunities of childhood and adolescence; that it is very good that we ensure here that all laws and projects pass the filters to protect the interests of the child; that it is very good that we do here a cross-sectional follow-up of what happens in the various ministries; that it is very good that we listen in Parliament to the entities representing the defence of the rights of children. All of this is very well, we share it and that is why we support this initiative, but what is really important is to have a Government committed to such policies, ready to face the problems that exist in our country, such as child poverty or the challenge of strengthening birth policies. We have to end two dramas: the personal drama of many young women and couples who want to have children and can't and the collective drama of an aging country every day. [[Applauds]] That is what we want in the Socialist Group. We want to develop a strategic plan for children, as other groups have said here, achieve a pact for education, advance the universalization of schools from zero to three years, set up scholarships as a right, set up a minimum living income and increase their amount for each dependent child. We want to pass a framework law on social services. We want to include early care in the health care portfolio. We want to extend paternity and maternity leave to 26 weeks. We want to recognize all women with a two-year contribution bonus for each child for the purposes of their pension. We want a national pact for the rationalization of schedules that allows us to see our children and our children see their parents. It is only ten measures that we presented to you here a few days ago in that government of change that we proposed by the Socialists. It's only ten and I know there could be many more. I am convinced that if the majority of those who today want a change of government - an alternative government to that of the People's Party, that of cuts and that of inequality - work to make it possible, this can be a legislature in which today's children can understand tomorrow that we work to guarantee them the best present and the best future, which is nothing but guaranteeing the best present and the best future for our country. Let's make it possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Finally, for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of setting up this non-legislative committee on children's and adolescents' rights. We will vote yes to its creation because it seems to us to be a very appropriate continuation of the enormous legislative work that has been done in this House over the past four years in favour of children and adolescents. In 2011, when the People's Party came to the Government, Spain had no specific policies for children or families. If we consider that the last Child Support Plan came from 1996, we will be aware of the importance of this matter among the objectives of the Government of the Socialist Party: zero. The Government now in office began its work through the National Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents 2013-2016. Madam representative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, this plan already has more than EUR 5 billion in budget. In addition, this work was completed when last year the Organic Law and the Ordinary Law on the Protection of Children and Adolescents were passed, which have taken the form of a before and after in our legal system. For the first time in Europe, the principle of the best interests of the child has been incorporated, with a catalogue of children's rights, or the obligation to carry out an impact assessment on children and adolescents of all pre-draft laws and regulations being processed. In addition, the Statute for Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Gender-based Violence, which was granted only to women by the Organic Law of 2004, has been extended to children, by extending psychological care, legal, social or economic assistance, also to children who are directly or indirectly affected by the violence their parents exert on their mothers and on themselves. In addition, judges are required to rule on precautionary measures affecting the children of victims, as long as they continue with their mothers. Let us remember that 65 per cent of women who report gender-based violence have children under the age of 18, which is why it is clear that minors need to be given specific attention for their full recovery from the violence they and their mothers are experiencing. I would also like to mention how, for the first time in a state norm, the situation of risk and neglect has been defined, simplifying and expediting the guardianship and custody processes, adoption and foster care in order to avoid, as far as possible, residential solutions - juvenile centres - and to favour families in all cases of girls and boys at risk. The protection of minors from sexual offences has also been strengthened, with the establishment of a central register of sexual offenders, so that access to certain professions involving contact with minors is restricted to persons with such criminal records. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has also been done with the support and advice of the Autonomous Communities, of the entities of the third sector - some of them present here - and of experts in the academic field, that is, with the maximum possible consensus. The agreement that these rules had in this House is testimony to the fact that of 752 amendments tabled, 240 were approved, i.e. one third of the total. I will remind you of more specific issues, ladies and gentlemen, in support of children and the improvement of the living conditions of minors and families. The tax reform promoted last year, 2015 has precisely in families with several children or with persons with disabilities among their members, as well as in single parents with two minors in charge of their major beneficiaries, paying less and being able to obtain discounts and grants of up to 100 euros per month. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposing group has submitted its request on the basis of a series of somewhat tangled data on child poverty in our country, which our group demands some clarification. Firstly, it should be noted that during the two socialist legislatures, 2004-2011, child poverty grew in Europe, according to the rate of risk of poverty and social exclusion, Arope, more than four points, while in the European Union it fell to twenty-seven tenths. Despite this and the knowledge of this progressive fall, the Socialist Government's 2010 Inclusion Plan made no mention or action in relation to child poverty. In 2013, the National Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents and the Social Inclusion Plan set the fight against child poverty as a priority objective, endorsing the European recommendation Investing in children, breaking the cycle of disadvantages. A fund was approved whose distribution among the autonomous communities enabled 287 projects to be financed, which favoured 110,856 boys and girls. In 2015 this fund was extended to 32 million euros and in the 2016 General State Budgets it becomes to have an amount of 48 million euros for situations of material deficiency, via autonomous communities, which are, as we well know and have been remembered here too, the competent in social matters. In addition, through the funding priority for child support projects, EUR 27.7 million for children's projects in 2015 has been earmarked for the IRPF 0.7 grant programme.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u151	Mrs Gonzalez, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u152	I'm done, Mr. President. Child poverty is not a problem, as has also been said here, that it can be separated from the situation of unemployment or vulnerability of the parents or guardians of the child. As you are well aware, the Autonomous Communities and the Government have, over the years, launched different responses to the problem of poverty, unemployment or long-term unemployment. In 2014, the Government - and with this I conclude - committed itself to reviewing the picture of minimum income for inclusion together with the autonomous communities and social actors to ensure more effective coverage and protection in all cases. Well, the European Commission has just granted a project to the Government of Spain for this revision and the establishment of proposals for improvement, which we hope will provide a more effective framework, always respecting the competences that the Constitution and the respective statutes of autonomy grant to each administration. Finally, I would like to recall that the measures taken by the Government have been welcomed by the European Council, which has considered them steps in the right direction to alleviate child poverty. Similarly, the various reports of the Secretary-General of the United Nations have considered them.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u153	Mrs Gonzalez, you've passed, and much, time.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u154	We are voting in favour of the establishment of this non-legislative committee, considering that from within it we can continue to work on the protection of children and the fight against poverty in a clear and direct way, maintaining the priority that has been given to the Government of the People's Party during the past parliamentary term to the protection of children and adolescents. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the remaining proposals for the establishment of standing committees on the agenda, we will follow what has been agreed in the Board of Spokesmen, that is, to submit them to the House for approval without any previous debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u156	We would do the same with the next item on the agenda, which is that of the accountability of the Congressional Permanent Deputies of the X Legislature to the Chamber of the XI Legislature. If there is no opposition to do this like this, we will wait until the bell has just sounded to proceed to the different votes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u157	We are going to proceed to the outstanding votes today. I remind you, since this is the first time we have voted in this legislature, that we first press the presence button and then the sense of the vote. We begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the unity of Spain. I remember you voting on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 147 against, 79 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u158	Looks like it didn't work. In that corner it looks like it didn't work. Those who have not seen their vote reflected on the screen will please stand up and say what the meaning of their vote is. [[Pause]] Let's do something else. First, how many people have not been able to vote on this occasion? [[Pause]] I am not talking about those who have wronged the meaning of the vote, but about those who have not been able to vote. [[Pause]] A person. And what's the meaning of your vote? [[Mrs Botella Gómez: Abstention]] The final result of the vote is: 327 votes cast; 147 in favour; 79 against; 101 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u159	It's approved. [[Mr Turrion Churches asks for the word]] Yes, Mr. Churches?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u160	Excuse me, Mr. President. I think that some Members, some of my group, have had difficulties, because this was the first time they used the voting system, and they were unable to express the meaning of their vote correctly. I ask you to take over and that the meaning of your vote, which I believe is clear from our speeches, can be expressed in all Members. Given, moreover, that some of your ladies and gentlemen are only coming to this House to vote, I believe that this request is entirely reasonable. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u161	Mr Iglesias, I very much regret the mistakes of some Member who may have been mistaken in the sense of his vote. The only thing we can do from the Bureau is for those who have not been able to exercise their right to vote to manifest themselves, which is what we have done on this occasion. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the recovery of the Toledo Pact, as an expression of political consent, and the social dialogue, in order to agree on measures to ensure dignified and strengthened penalties THE VIABILITY OF THE PUBLIC PENSION SYSTEM. [[File number 162/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u162	We now proceed to vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to restore the Toledo Pact, as an expression of political consensus, and social dialogue, in order to agree on measures to ensure decent pensions and to strengthen the viability of the public pension system. I remind you that you are also voting on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 219 against, 109 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u163	It's approved. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP WE CAN COMMONLY POSSES-EN-MAREA, ON RATIFICATION OF ILO CONVENTION No. 189 AND RECOMMENDATION No. 201 ON DECENT WORK FOR DOMESTIC WORKERS. [[File number 162/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u164	We now vote on the non-law proposal of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group on the ratification of ILO Convention No. 189 and Recommendation No. 201 on decent work for domestic workers. The vote will take place on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca and the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Democracy and Freedom]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 224 against, 1 abstention, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u165	It's approved. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON DEMOCRACY, EQUALITY AND THE UNION OF ALL SPAINERS. [[File number 162/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u166	We are now voting for the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the defence of democracy, equality and the union of all Spaniards. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the Socialist Group's amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 131 against, 95 abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u167	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u168	We now vote on the request by the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group for the establishment of a permanent non-legislative commission to combat corruption and the request by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Mr Baldoví and Mr Garzón, the Joint Group, for the establishment of a permanent committee for the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms. They are voted together in the terms of the compromise proposal presented by the People's Parliamentary Group, by the Socialist Group, by the People's Party of Parliament, by the People's Party of Parliament, by the Citizens' Party of Parliament and by the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 332 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u169	They're approved. - REQUEST FROM THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PERMANENT NON-LEGISLATIVE COMMISSION ON THE RIGHTS OF CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENCE [[CPDIA]] [[File number 155/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u170	We then vote for the request of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Parliamentary Group for the creation of a permanent non-legislative committee on the rights of children and adolescents, and we vote in the terms of the proposal to amend the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 333 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u171	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u172	The remaining proposals for the establishment of standing committees on the agenda are put to the vote of the House by consent. Do your lordships give the assent? [[Consent]] That's how we approved it.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-03-15-CD160315.u173	The same is true of the accountability of the Permanent Chamber of Deputies of the previous parliamentary term on this one. Can you vote for consent? [[Consent]] It's approved. The meeting rose. It was nine and twenty minutes of the night.
