ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the speaking times of the parliamentary groups. As your ladies and gentlemen know, they will speak in an order of majority to minority, taking the last word of the parliamentary group to which the candidate for the Presidency of the Government belongs. After the speeches of the parliamentary groups, the vote will be taken, which, as you know, will be made public by appeal, in accordance with Rules 85 and 86 of the Rules of Procedure. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u2	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Candidate, I'll be clear and direct. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote against its candidacy for the Presidency of the Government, and we will do so with complete and absolute conviction, for consistency with our political ideas, for the commitment made to our voters and for the good of our country, because Spain urgently needs a government, not a bad government. [[Applauds]] Spain urgently needs a government that makes possible a fair economic recovery and ends the bad government of continued budget failures and the exhaustion of resources accumulated during years of effort by all Spaniards. Spain needs a Government that will regain the right to decent work and end the bad government that has enacted a labor reform that has condemned the present and future of millions of Spaniards. Spain needs a government that returns to public health, education, pensions, dependence, the indispensable public commitment that its bad government has despised during these years. Spain needs a government that pursues, punishes and prevents the widespread political corruption established around it, Mr. candidate, and that joins the government with obvious affluence, sheltered and protected during these years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs a government that resolves the territorial crisis we suffer; a government that creates in public institutions, equips them with the necessary means to carry out their functions and guarantees them the necessary independence that their bad government has eliminated as a daily practice. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs a government that recovers the rights and freedoms curtailed by the bad government that has imposed a cut and amputation of rights and freedoms over the last few years. Spain needs a government, yes; that is why we will vote against the continuity of your bad government, Mr. candidate. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, eight months later, Mr Rajoy has fulfilled his responsibility to set out his political agenda and ask for the confidence of the House; eight months during which Mr Rajoy, the candidate today, has maintained a behaviour in our opinion. Irresponsible for democracy and its institutions. First, refusing to submit his candidacy for the investiture during the last parliamentary term; second, raising doubts as to whether or not he would go to Parliament after having said yes to the proposal of the Head of State; third, eight months later rising to the rostrum of Congress without sufficient support to be invested and thus turning this debate into the chronicle of an announced defeat. [[Rumors.............................................]] In order to secure the presidency of this House, the People's Parliamentary Group had no problem reaching an agreement with other parliamentary forces in this Congress. However, you have not even tried to repeat that pact in order to maintain your continuity as President of the Government, because that is your only real interest, Mr Rajoy, in trying to keep you, in any case, as President of the Government. [[Protests.................................................]] And for that claim, the truth, the real thing, the serious thing is that you don't have enough support. Let me tell you in your own words. "The candidate, rather than trying to articulate a sufficient majority, has preferred not to do so for reasons which have nothing to do with the Government of Spain or the interests of the Spanish, but exclusively with the particular plans of the candidate." [[...]] - Shut up. Come on, come on. These are your words, even if it seems unusual to you, Mr. Candidate. [[Applauds]] Following in your own words, Mr. candidate, I open quotes: «You have come, without anyone shadowing you, to submit a candidacy to form Government, when in reality you have not moved a finger to form it. [[...]] Perhaps you want someone to give it to you today." [[...]] - Shut up. Come on, come on. These, ladies and gentlemen, are Mr Rajoy's own arguments. I haven't started with ours yet. If you were consistent with your words and actions, you should be the first to vote against your candidacy, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] But, as the candidate believes, the problem in Spain is who interprets politics as a farce, and in his own words, today perfectly transferable to this debate, I open quotes. "The farce would not be genuine if it lacked good and bad. In fact, what the candidate is trying to make us believe is that if Spain does not have a government today, if that majority is not completed, if he is not elected president, it will be because of all the others, who are the bad ones." - Shut up. Come on, come on. [[Applauds]] The candidate brings under his arm an agreement with another parliamentary force, insufficient to carry out his candidacy; an agreement I suppose you will be ashamed of. I remind you of how you described the pact that was presented in this House a few months ago. You said, Mr Rajoy, that the agreement was not open quotes. more than a "theatrical and uplifting" performance. I refer to the very solemn signing of an agreement of very limited relevance» ♪ You kept saying ♪ "that made us think that we were facing a historic page of dimensions only comparable to the Covenant of the Toros de Guisando." - Shut up. Come on, come on. Fourthly, irresponsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, irresponsibility on the part of the candidate to set this debate on such a date that any re-election would take place on 25 December. Mr. Rajoy, you fall into your manicism or chaos. Fortunately, for Spanish politics there is life beyond Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] With all this. and in any case, it is a blackmail in every rule that has counted on the complicity of the President of Congress, in breach of her duty to defend the independence of the Legislature even from Mr. Rajoy's trophies. [[Protests.................................................]] [[Applauds]] Madam Pastor, Madam President, accepting the ill-intentioned date imposed by the candidate, you have left Congress on the floor. [[Applauds]] Although, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I don't know what we're surprised about. Appropriating public institutions for their particular purposes is Mr Rajoy's way of doing politics. Let's remember. First, a government in office that denies Parliament's control. Second, a president who for four years has ruled under decree-law, 76 in four years, i.e., an average of one every nineteen days. and 100 applications to the Chambers rejected. Third, the politicization of the judiciary, the instrumentalization of the Constitutional Court, the manipulation of the Tax Agency or the Spanish Radio-television itself, promoting to the heel of journalists like the Government while firing the workers of the house. [[Applauds]] Fourthly, a minister of the interior who occupies his time between sneaking around with investigators like Rodrigo Rato and chasing political opponents using all the springs of the state, which according to the minister himself I do not say, says the minister himself because I have heard him in the famous recordings that are known by some media, you, Mr. candidate, knew. Is that not the reason for the unwarranted permanence of the Minister of the Interior in office? As you also knew, Mr Rajoy, that your ex-Treasurer Luis Bárcenas had more than 40 million euros in current accounts in Switzerland and that was not an impediment to sending you a message of support, Mr. candidate. [[Mr. Luena López: Be strong!]] You say that you are concerned about the image of Spain outside our borders, that you are concerned about the image of Spain in Europe. I agree. I remind you that in German strap is called gürtel. Perhaps because in the face of such a case in Germany there had been resignations; not in his Government. Your refusal to assume responsibilities explains to a great extent the mistrust that is being breathed into you in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the investiture debate is not about mechanical validation of the election result. Our democracy is based on a parliamentary system and that of investiture is a debate about the confidence that the candidate generates in the 350 Members present here. I remind you of what Article 99 of the Spanish Constitution says: the candidate will ask for the confidence of the House. Mr Rajoy, your recent and distant behaviour, your use and abuse of the institutions, your lies yesterday and today, your failure to assume political responsibilities in the face of the serious cases of corruption that affect you support our absolute distrust of you and we will therefore vote against your candidacy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, an investiture cannot stop political corruption by granting a kind of unjustifiable pardon for it. If we assumed the opposite under any pretext or supposed responsibility, we would be seriously damaging democracy and our rule of law, which is the heritage of all Spaniards. Ours does not contain many yeses, ladies and gentlemen: yes to a country free of the 'correa' of corruption; yes to independent judges and prosecutors with resources to fight corruption; yes to corrupt and corrupt enter into prison and return it stolen; yes to independent public media; yes to turn Parliament into the centre of public life; yes to politicians with unsolved glass pockets and no wages in excess, Mr Rajoy; yes to public exemplaryness; yes to dialogue; yes to reconciliation of the Spanish with dignified politics and with their institutions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the term responsibility is being used and abused these days. Let's talk about responsibilities. On the responsibility of my parliamentary group. The Socialist Party is the second political force in this country and the first at the same time representing the citizens who oppose you four years more than you, Mr Rajoy, at the head of the government. We have a first and main institutional obligation to represent in a constructive and loyal way millions of Spaniards who do not want Mr Rajoy and the People's Party to continue to govern this country. We are aware of what we represent; we are working cleanly and openly to give a voice in Parliament to the millions of citizens who voted for us on 26 June. The Socialist Party has not carried out a single act or launched a single initiative to prevent Mr Rajoy from gaining the support to carry out his investiture. We have maintained a scrupulous institutional respect in the time given to the candidate when you gave him only one month to be able to forge an alternative; in the format of the debate, which in February seemed to them to be a troupe and today, instead, seems to them the most appropriate method; and also in the face of the meetings held by the candidate with the various parliamentary groups, with all, we have also held scrupulous respect there. Now, what no one can ask of us is that we support what we aspire to change, that we reinforce what we face, that we use the strength that millions of citizens have given us to go against what they believe. [[Applauds]] We, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, never asked for your vote on the investiture I presented myself with in March, nor did we criticize your vote against in the past. We understood your mistrust; at the end of the day our agenda, as you rightly said in that debate, was an amendment to all of your policies. That is why, Mr Rajoy, you cannot count on the trust of the Socialists. [[Applauds]] But let us now speak, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, of his responsibility, of the responsibility of the candidate. Throughout the history of our democracy, you will allow me to make this little reflection. the first political force in votes and in seats has always been able to achieve the necessary support in order to be able to form government. Throughout our history, the majority of governments have been minority governments; governments, whether left or right, have needed the support of other parliamentary forces. The novelty, not since 26 June, but since 20 December, is that for the first time in the history of our democracy the candidate of the first political force is unable to obtain the support that will allow him to win the investiture and guarantee the governability of the country, and that incapacity, Mr. candidate, Mr. Rajoy, is in his exclusive and no one else is responsible for it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, many things have happened in Spain over the past four years not to forget them, not to think that they have not happened. It is not defensible that a President of Government who has implemented anti-social policies and who at the same time is president of the first political party in the history of our corruption-charged democracy can be the guide to democratic regeneration that our political and institutional system needs, let alone the person who broke the Toledo Pact, who imposed an educational counter-reform leading a Government to rebuild those agreements. Simply, Mr Rajoy, you have no credibility, and that is what we are talking about in the investiture debate. [[Applauds]] Mr. Candidate, you have no credibility, you are not in a position to do what you proclaim. I remind you that you are not a newcomer, you have been ruling for four years, confusing absolute majority with absolutism; four years in which you have generated more problems than you have solved. You have not proved to be a good manager of public money, no matter how much you threw those proclamations at us yesterday. It has not been effective nor has it been supportive of citizens. I remind you that you have consumed 85% of the pension fund's money in 2011. The social security deficit has not fallen by EUR 10 billion during its four years of government, mainly as a result of the fall in collection caused by its labour reform. And the only remedy they've found is to cut pensions, freeze them for life to our elders, and cut unemployment benefits, yes. [[Rumors]] Only five out of ten unemployed receive benefit when four years ago there were seven out of ten in a Spain I remember you, ladies and gentlemen. with 2,600,000 long-term unemployed. The public debt has been shot at more than 30 billion euros in four years and you go yesterday and say we can't spend what we don't have. If with you, Mr Rajoy, for the first time in a hundred years in our country the public debt has exceeded one hundred per cent of gross domestic product. An increase of 7,400 euros per month for every citizen since you are President of the Government. Spain suffers the largest public deficit in the whole of the European Union, only surpassed by Greece. Spain has been given a sanctioning process in Brussels, Mr. candidate, not because of the absence of a government but because of its bad government. [[Applauds]] This is the result, so we put it in August last year from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in the previous parliamentary term. having also converted the General Budgets of the State into an electoral instrument. You started by delaying the approval of your first budgets and finished the parliamentary term in 2015 anticipating the approval of the shortest public accounts of democracy, settled in July as a result of seeing your public deficit forecasts far exceeded. In none of your years of government, Mr Rajoy, have you fulfilled your predictions of either public deficit or public debt. The only certain of their general budgets are cuts, massive tax increases, wage devaluation to gain competitiveness and that it is others, in this case the autonomous communities and the municipalities, who pay the candidate's budget failures. As far as taxes are concerned, the candidate again tries to deceive the Spaniards. In his investiture agreement we find again the three typical lies of the People's Party: yesterday's, today's and tomorrow's. Yesterday's lie we already know; the one he introduced four years ago saying that he was not going to raise taxes to the Spaniards and ended up raising more than fifty taxes and taxes. Today's lie is that you would have lowered taxes during the legislature by your absolute majority; on the contrary, you raised taxes to the middle and working class by more than €17.5 billion, according to data from the Tax Agency itself, while approving a tax amnesty to former members of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And tomorrow's lie is your promise of further tax cuts; that is, ladies and gentlemen, what you are going to do is lower taxes, raise social spending and also square the bills and meet Brussels. You lie and you know it, Mr Rajoy, your government program again covers up new tax increases that would affect self-employed workers, SMEs, the social economy and the workers you claim to be defending. Mr Rajoy, you are not in a position to do what you proclaim. The lethal sum of corruption, economic mismanagement and inequality that his Government had dragged into Spain did not disappear after an electoral process or excel in an investiture, but required new policies and new actors. The cause of the problems cannot demand to be the same that solve them with the same recipes. We cannot expect from them a change of conduct, a change of policies; you are only a continuation of your work, a work to which, by the way, I remind the whole House, the Socialists have opposed us over the past four years. The hemerotheque, that is, the memory, is your worst enemy, Mr. Candidate. What confidence can you have in yourself? In our opinion, none. Four years ago, today's candidate, in his investiture speech, promised not to cut back on health, dependency, pensions and education. Do you remember? But its management is summed up in one word: cuts. Shortcuts in the welfare state. Cuts in rights, cuts in freedoms, cuts in democracy. [[Applauds]] Cuts in equality policies, cuts in the budget to combat gender-based violence, abandonment of the Law on Equality between Men and Women. Crops in culture with the rise of cultural VAT, without a law of patronage, although you again propose it, but a law of intellectual property that discourages intellectual creation. Shortcuts in science and innovation. Shortcuts in agricultural, fisheries and rural development policies. Cuts in environmental protection with your Coast Act, your Environmental Assessment Act, your Mounts Act, your pursuit of clean energies while increasing the bill for light. You despise energy poverty, to which you did not refer in your speech. It despises the fight against climate change, which is a window of opportunity to build a sustainable future, create jobs, create business and create wealth in our country. Cuts in infrastructure, in the policy of international cooperation that you no longer talk about. Shortcuts in immigration, immigrant integration and migration policies. Cuts in our educational system, which today has 34,000 fewer teachers, with 130,000 more students per year, which puts us at the tail of the European Union, and the imposition of a law, the Lomce, rejected by everyone in and out of Congress, except for you, and that you are committed to continuing to impose with your decree of invalids approved last July. Scholarship cuts, but also increases in university fees. Shortcuts in our national dependency system That you did not mention yesterday in your speech, leaving 375,000 Spaniards entitled to dependency benefit on the waiting list. Ladies and gentlemen, 170,000 people, mostly women, were expelled from Social Security as non-professional caregivers of the system. Health cuts with bankruptcy in a single day of the universality of our health system. By a single decree, ladies and gentlemen, you expelled 870,000 citizens from health care, introduced the pharmaceutical co-op to the pensioners, and raised that co-op three times as much as the pension. They cut the health card for young migrants in 90 days, cut €7 billion in public health and, as a result, expelled 30,000 professionals from the system. Cuts and cuts, ladies and gentlemen, the consequence of which, at best, is inequality and, at worst, poverty. 28% of Spanish people live at risk of poverty or social exclusion, more than 13 million Spanish and Spanish. According to Unicef, 2.5 million children are poor. Shortcuts in the security of citizens and cuts in rights and freedoms. In the case of abortion, ladies and gentlemen, women faced in the legislature of their absolute majority the greatest aggression that recalls their own freedom and won that battle against the Government and will continue to do so against their appeal to the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] So, Mr Rajoy, if you believe in women's freedom, withdraw that remedy. Shortcuts such as the Law on Bite; the abandonment of the Law on Historical Memory; the criminal criminalization of strikers; the Law on Criminal Prosecution, which it does is to open the door to greater impunity; cuts such as the abolition of the sanction of crimes against the international community in accordance with the principles of universal justice. Let us recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that in most cases they are not explained by the crisis, but by the conservative ideology of the one who governs this country. You speak of moderation, moderate government, Mr Rajoy, but Lomce, labor reform, cutbacks in universal justice, the Criminal Prosecution Act are all less moderate, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] For four years Mr Rajoy has only had a fellow traveler, who is his own political idea, the most conservative in Europe. For all this, he does not have our confidence. Our proposal is an amendment to your entire government program. Ours is a yes to a new taxation that guarantees the sufficiency, stability and progressiveness of the system; a yes to green taxation and a no to nuclear energy and fracking, a yes to the fight against fraud and a no to tax amnesties. It is a yes to the universality of public health and a no to pharmaceutical co-sponsors; a yes to public education, free, universal, quality and secular, and a no to Lomce. It is a yes to the viability of the national system of dependency and a no to the elimination of the contribution for non-professional caregivers. It is a yes to the Toledo Pact and a no to the evictions. It is a yes to collective bargaining and a no to the law gags. It is a yes to access to justice for those who have less and a no to their Criminal Prosecution Act. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, needs a government, yes, a government that is clean, that is social and that is credible and yours is not, Mr Rajoy, nor would it be. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in 2011, Mr Rajoy promised in his investiture speech to work on job creation and that that job would be stable. Months later, once the elections have been won, ladies and gentlemen, you will remember that one of the ministers of this government in office said this statement in Brussels. that they were going to do a job reform. I open quotes. extremely aggressive. Close quotes. It was so good that the workers suffered. You weakened collective bargaining by leaving 2 million workers out of the bargains. They devalued the salaries of employees, who today charge 20 billion euros less in salaries than four years ago. They facilitated the layoffs. They weakened causation in layoffs, which made employment precarious. They allowed the employer to unilaterally impose contractual changes on the worker and employees today know what time they start working, but not what time they end. They froze the minimum wage. The number of unpaid special days in our country reaches 3.5 million hours per week. Many citizens above all women they are part-time but work full-time. Wage inequality is not only.. and increasingly, by the way, between workers and managers, inequality is also between workers and workers. According to the unions, women should work 79 days more a year to earn the same salary as men, and this inequality is the result of many women having lower retirements than men. By the way, and you work with less protection. The number of deaths in an occupational accident in 2015 reached 629 people, that is, something we cannot afford, we have to remedy this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, the question would be: and all this destruction, for what? If the unemployment rate is reduced, it is because the labour force has fallen by 565,000 people, many of whom are unemployed, mostly women, who are long-term unemployed and who are desisting from seeking work. Unemployed people who need protection that you deny them and training that your Government cuts with the abandonment of active employment policies. Its labour policy is summed up in unemployment, unemployment, precariousness and labour poverty, which affects 14% of workers who do not reach the end of the month. So we will vote against your candidacy because we oppose the continuation of a labour reform and a fiscal policy that is the real proposal that you hide in your investment agreement. [[Applauds]] Mr. candidate, we will vote against your candidacy because in relation to the model of state, your action far from addressing the territorial crisis has helped to sharpen it. It has done so because it has prolonged in time the fundamental mistakes that you starred when you were leader of the opposition. It has denied cooperation with the various Catalan institutions, practiced re-centralizing policies that demonstrate its centralist and uniformizing conception of the State and has believed that it does not understand the diversity of Spain, nor knows how to reflect it in our order, nor is it in a position to deal with it. Ladies and gentlemen, to reverse the dynamics of conflicting relations between the Catalan and central governments, to repeal laws such as the Lomce, which poses an interference in the education and linguistic policy of the Generalitat, which, by the way, you reinforce by questioning the model of linguistic immersion in your agreement, to address without delay a new funding framework for all the autonomous communities and to review the State's investment policy are some of the issues that remain pending and which you, Mr Rajoy, have despised over the past four years. Your permanent refusal to respond to the growing demand from all areas, I will no longer just say political, also business, social, academic, for a partial reform of the Constitution that in addition to updating our standards of coexistence, the Spain of the twenty-first century, finally culminates in the federal organization of our coexistence, is the best demonstration that you, Mr Rajoy, are not able to lead Spain for the next four years. [[Applauds]] Mr. Candidate, your Government has a foreign policy for Spain which, in our view, seems to be that of a satellite or that of a client who assumes what other powers decide according to their particular interests. His Government proposed nothing to help stabilize conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa, nothing to continue to be a protagonist in the Latin American region, nothing but the pursuit of conservative policies to build a federal Europe, a Union that would avoid the temptations of Brexit, when not possible repetitions, without limiting the democratic capacity logically of the peoples that formed it. A Union that demands a commitment of solidarity to welcome and resolve the tragedy of refugees, which you, Mr. candidate, have neglected over the past four years. Economic policies, financial policies, monetary policies, social policies which the European Union must review if we are to build a Europe of opportunities for all and also to avoid the removal of integration. Mr Rajoy, neither in your government program nor in your investment agreement is there any intention of amendment. There is more of the same, attenuated, makeupd, disguised and of course forced by the circumstances. One week, ladies and gentlemen, to study six harsh conditions of the fight against corruption, another to sign a hundred points, and all to promise four years of continuity. They now intend to explain to us that we have no choice but to support their Government, since the programme they are proposing to us is an agreement that is basically identical to what we reached with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group a few months ago. The pact of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party, which we signed with the Citizens Parliamentary Group and for which we called for the support of the House as a whole, had only one direction: the change of government, the change of policies and the change of who presides over that government. The pact signed by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Group has a contrary meaning, and is to preserve Mr Rajoy as President of the Government and persevere with his policies. There is little more to talk about, we defend to change Mr Rajoy and we are against his continuity, so simple. That's why we're going to vote against your candidacy. [[Applauds]] You do not want to repeal the star laws passed unilaterally during your term of office, laws that have done nothing other than bring inequality, precariousness, covert unemployment, loss of rights and freedoms, great cuts in our welfare state, territorial fracture. I mean, all you promise or propose to this House is continuity. But, after reading the agreement, it is clear that for Mr Rajoy the change is that everyone changes less him. As it is clear that with his votes he cannot in any way maintain the position he has enjoyed during these years, he has decided that there is only one alternative, that it is the votes of those who have openly confronted him who now support those policies and also you as President of the Government. Do not count on the socialists, Mr Rajoy, you not only have a problem of parliamentary arithmetic, you have a problem of parliamentary arithmetic arising from the problem of your policies and your credibility. Mr Rajoy, since the elections you and your political party have devoted a large part of your public interventions to the Socialist Party and to my person. Neither my party nor I are the subject of this debate but what the Constitution says, I remember: the candidate, his program and the granting or not of confidence by the majority of this Congress. But since you lost your absolute majority eight months ago you have insisted, first, on forming a great coalition between your party and mine and, later, on the fact that the socialists had to abstain from their policies in order to allow you to rule. It has done so despite our public and repeated negatives. You have come to say, Mr Rajoy, that you need Citizens for the investiture and the Socialist Party to be able to govern. In such a simple formula, what you are planting goes beyond the roll of the absolute majority four years ago, what you are trying to say to the Spaniards and to this House is that you want to rule without opposition. If the legislature in which you ruled by absolute majority was the legislature of absolutism, this, in the event that we gave in to your pressures, would be the legislature of blackmail. [[Applauds]] If, for a supposed misunderstanding of State responsibility, we had to support his candidacy for the Presidency, that would be the same reason why we would later have to approve the State's General Budgets, for which we would also have to maintain unpretentious labour legislation and, for the same reason, we would also have to accept his social cuts, Mr. candidate. Always for the good of Spain; of course: the good of Spain understood according to its criteria. Mr. Candidate, we can and have demonstrated this throughout our history. We have understood ourselves in certain matters, for example in the area of counter-terrorism; but as far as rights, freedoms, equality, progress, reforms and regeneration are concerned, the Socialist Party's programme is an amendment to its entire programme of government. That is why the Socialist Group's response to his candidacy is a no, a no, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and its parliamentary group are consistent with its history, with its memory, with its programme, with the word given to the Spaniards. The Socialist Party was born to build an alternative to the dominant economic system and its aftermath of exploitation, social exclusion, poverty and domination. Freedom, democracy, equality, solidarity and peace are irrefutable values and principles in today's world, and we socialists are not going to end up defending them. Mr Rajoy, not only can we not support your blackmail, but we denounce it. What you have intended with the delay of your decision is to transfer to the citizens the false idea that either you rule or the Spaniards are doomed to have to vote on Christmas day. This approach, ladies and gentlemen, only provokes rejection, disaffection in politics and abounds in the grounds for suggesting that its non-continuity at the head of the Government of Spain is a necessity for the ethical, political and institutional regeneration of our country. A government chaired by you, far from being a democratic stability government, would be frustrated by the change in policies that are needed in our country and in Europe in the face of the serious challenges we face. Mr Rajoy, we are the alternative to your Government because we have alternatives to your policies. We have a different political agenda than yours and we are not prepared to cooperate with the policies you have practiced. Socialists say yes to another way of doing politics, to another way of understanding institutions and directing them, to another way of creating and distributing the wealth of the nation, to another way of understanding Spain, of building Europe and of being present in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, some call for a vote for patriotism, others even claim to be willing to lose all credibility for the homeland. Don't fall for that mistake. Remember the words of Azaña. Azaña said: No political problem has written its solution in the code of patriotism. No one has the right to monopolize patriotism, no one has the right in a controversy to say that its solution is the best because it is the most patriotic; it is necessary that, in addition to being patriotic, it is correct. And your proposal, Mr. candidate, is not. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the candidate asks for your understanding and even support without any management endorsement and proposals that deserve that endorsement. You, Mr. candidate, would only be worthy of understanding if you disposed of all your most pernicious policies and that more damage has been done to all the Spaniards over the past four years: labor reform, tax amnesty, the law on gags, the Lomce, the law on criminal prosecution, aimed at protecting impunity, and many more, and that can neither do nor want to do so, nor those whose interests will be allowed to do so. So we reiterate the conclusion, and with this I conclude, Madam President: what Spain really needs is not four more years of Mariano Rajoy at the head of the government. And collaborating in this is one of the most responsible acts a politician can do today. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u3	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, as you know, I came to this House yesterday to ask for your cooperation. This forces me to treat you with much more deference than I usually do and to take much more care of the expressions I use in this House. [[Laughter and applause]] Everyone will agree with me that what I just said is true, but you could answer me, Mr. Sanchez. [[Laughter]] Man, don't abuse it. With you telling me it's not enough anymore, you don't have to try to argue it. [[Laughter and applause]] Your Honor, be absolutely certain that I have already fully understood all the parts of the no, that of: no, no, no, and what part of the no has not understood. I get it, so just relax. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have also understood the objective of your speech, which is clear: you want to block from here the President of the Government who has presented himself to this investiture and won the elections and has to justify it in some way. And how do you justify it? For doing the usual in these cases, issuing a judgment as generous and as loving about my person as the one you have all just heard. Now, Mr Sánchez, if your opinion on the People's Party, my person and the government that I chair is that we are the quintessence of all evils without any mixture of good and, despite that, eight months ago we had 33 more seats than you and two 52 more seats than you, can you explain to the House what you think of your execution at the head of the Socialist Party? [[Applauds]] It's just a drawer, ladies and gentlemen. Because if your judgments about me are the ones we just heard here, you're in a very bad place, Mr. Sánchez, because if I'm so bad, how bad are you? Fish? [[Laughter and applause]] Your problem is that what you say does not coincide with what a great majority of Spaniards say, that is the most important problem you have. Then it turns out that there are a majority of Spaniards who do not think of me what you think and, above all, there are a vast majority of Spaniards who do not agree with you that you block the election of the candidate for the investiture and commit to holding new elections in our country for the third time in a year. [[Applauds]] That's the real story, Mr. Sanchez, and the rest are bad reasons. It now tells us that there is no urgent need for a Government in Spain. Man, unless you presided over him, right? [[Laughter]] In that case, I suppose it would be urgent. If you've said so too. How long do we need to be in this situation? Until we hold an election in which there is a result that suits you? Mr Sánchez, do you not think it is urgent to consolidate economic recovery and continue job creation? Does it not seem to you that it is perhaps not good for the general interests of the Spaniards to continue so long with a government in office? Mr Sánchez, does it not seem urgent for you to fulfil our commitments to the European institutions or to present the General Budgets of the State for 2017? Does it not seem to you that it is urgent that we set out clearly the rules of play that are usually laid down when a Government presents the General Budgets of the State as the resources of self-government, the salaries of officials, the amount of pensions, the offers of public employment? Don't you think it's urgent? Apparently, it seems more urgent to talk about Guisando's Bulls. I appreciate you quoting me. Indeed, I spoke here of the Toros de Guisando as they certainly remember a good part of the people who are in this House today. I also spoke of the Chestnut Commitment and the Pacts of Moncloa, as I would be sure to insist. Remember. Mr. Sánchez, you described those agreements as historic and then I remembered the Toros de Guisando. It is as if I now remember, I know, the Chapters of Santa Fe or the Treaty of Tordesillas, even though it has nothing to do with one thing or another. But now, Mr Sánchez, I have not described it as historical, I have described it as positive because, frankly, I do not believe that Mr Rivera and I are going into history by the agreement we signed the other day. Maybe we went through another reason. God willing to be good, Mr Rivera, but the truth is that the only one that will happen to history after this debate will be you because it will cause us, for the third time in a year, to have to hold general elections in Spain. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you have made some discussions about my presence at the investiture or my absence at the first investiture. I did not go to the investiture after the elections on 20 December for a reason that absolutely understand all those who are here, because it was absolutely impossible, and they know it 100 percent of the Members and Senators who are here. that I could be invested, for that reason. [[Rumors]] Yes, absolutely impossible, everyone knows it, everyone said it and everyone remembered it. Lisa and plainly for a reason that everyone also understands, which is Mr Sánchez's previous and closed refusal of the Socialist Party I do not know to have the slightest agreement with us. [[Applauds]] Now I come to the investiture and, why do I come? Firstly, because the results of last 26 June, as you all remember, are even clearer as regards the leadership of the People's Party. Because before we had a difference of 33 seats with the second political force and today there are 52. Secondly, I come to the investiture because at the time I had only 123 support in this House, and it is very difficult to form a government with 123 seats, but now, after an effort by all, I have reached an agreement with Citizens and we can present ourselves with 169 seats in this House plus one seat of the Canary Coalition, 170 seats, which, as everyone here also knows, is another thing they want to recognize, is a reasonable number of Members to try to form a government. Thirdly, I am presenting myself today and I did not do it after 20 December because the circumstances are very different, Mr Sánchez. It has been a long time since then, we have very urgent commitments to fulfil with our European partners, there are economic emergencies, the situation in the country is different, we have held other elections and it would be foolish to reach a third call. That is why, Mr Sánchez, it is not the same situation in which I present myself in this investiture as the situation in which you presented yourself to investiture, to yours. You have come here to quote sentences I have spoken in this House and I thank you, because you show that you use me as an argument of authority, which, frankly, nobody does today in the world in which we live. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] That's right. Please note, Mr Sánchez, that the circumstances in which I am presenting myself to the investiture and in which you were presenting yourself are different, because you were not the first political force, you had only 133 Members, my sentences from that time that you quoted here today do not serve you for today. This is very well understood. They served me back then and, besides, they were good, Mr. Sanchez. [[Laughter]] Yeah, that's why you used them here today. But we are in a different situation and for this situation they do not serve you. Next time I will bring you other sentences but appropriate to the situation in which you appear in this House. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you reproach me for the date of this debate. This debate began yesterday, 30 August, and continues today, 31 August. If there is no agreement in this House, the elections should be held on Christmas Day. If I had suggested that the debate, rather than on 30, should be held the following week, you would also blame me for that because then the elections would be on 1 January. If I had raised it for a week later it would be the same because it would be January 8th and I would say, how are we going to have the election campaign at Christmas? And if it were a week later, I'd say, are we going to have the debate in the middle of the Basque and Galician election campaign? I wouldn't agree with that either. And if I left them for after the Basque and Galician elections, I'd say, "What are you going to do all September?" I mean, doing what I did to you would be wrong with my decision. [[Let's give it up. A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Mr Sánchez, I wanted to talk to you to set the date of this investiture session and you did not want to talk to me to set the date of this investiture session, and you also made it known to the public as a whole. Therefore, you now have no moral authority because you did not want to think of something that I would have liked you to think of. [[Rumors.............................................]] But there is more, Mr Sánchez, we must not worry too much about the date of the elections, because you have reiterated to the satisfaction that in no way will elections be held for the third time in Spain. [[Rumors....................................]] And I trust his word. [[Rumors]] And since it is up to you, it is clear that the date on which those elections are to be held that you have said are not to be held is irrelevant. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, phrases: When no one has the majority on their own, what we have to do is seek the way of understanding. That's what I'm trying to do, Mr. Sanchez. The phrase is yours. [[Rumors]] Your Honor, yes, but I have not been able to seek the understanding because Mr Sánchez has never had the slightest intention of seeking it, nor when I was studying the possibilities of presenting myself to the investiture after December, nor when Mr Sánchez was the candidate for the investiture because he neither asked for the vote nor asked for the abstention nor had the slightest attempt to approach the People's Party. I don't know how he intended to win that investiture session. I, on the other hand, Mr. Sánchez, have wanted to seek your support and to understand with you. I said on 21 December itself that what seemed most reasonable to me was the Citizens' Coalition, the Socialist Party, the People's Party, for many reasons I will not reiterate because I have already put them on many occasions in this House. And I did it again in June, I said again on the 27th that the best thing in my opinion was a coalition between Citizens, the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Exactly for the same reasons. Yesterday I offered him very important state pacts and he is also right what I put to him, Mr Sánchez, because on the basic issues, in what are the rules of coexistence, in what is the Spanish Constitution, in what is the European acquis, the People's Party and the Socialist Party agree. And the People's Party and the Socialist Party have ruled for many years in Spain since the return of democracy to our country, and neither have we done so badly, especially if we take into account that this is the fourth country in the world where per capita income has grown the most. That is why I think the approach I was making was reasonable, because we are in an exceptional situation. If I already know that it is normal for there to be a government party and a party in the exercise of the opposition, if I already know, that is what is desirable, that is what usually happens. But when there is an exceptional situation, something different has to happen to us than just holding elections, because we are not going anywhere, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a few comments, because you have made them, on the issue of corruption. I think there are some things, Mr Sánchez, that we can agree on; in others we probably can't, but there are some that I think we can. I think we can agree that there have been too many corruption scandals and that this is the second most worrying problem for the Spaniards. It's not the first time, and I think we can agree on this too. in which this situation occurs in Spain, also in 1995 was perceived by the Spaniards as a serious problem. I think we can also agree that the concern for corruption At least that's what the Center for Sociological Research says. reached its peak in 2014, in November. Since then it has dropped more than twenty points. I believe that this has been the case because justice has acted and because we have taken all kinds of measures. I also believe, Mr Sánchez, that we can agree that we all feel rejected by cases of corruption. I, of course, feel rejected by the cases of corruption that have occurred in my ranks, and I imagine that you, when there are cases of corruption in your ranks, also feel the same rejection. I believe, Mr Sánchez, that we can agree with this statement: democracy has an enemy called corruption, and that enemy must be common to all democratic parties. Too often, ladies and gentlemen, we have made the mistake of thinking and saying that corruption is only a problem of the adversary, Mr Sánchez, in this House, in the debate on investiture. I make these words of mine, Mr. Sanchez. I am without any reservation, without any, according to them, and I hope that you will continue to agree with yourself, because I understand that these words cannot expire at six months. Mr Sánchez, we can agree that there is only one thing worse than corruption, which is to do nothing about it; I think that is the worst. Let's see what we've done in the face of corruption. In order to prevent, combat and punish corruption, we have reformed the Party Financing Act, the Criminal Code; we have adopted the Transparency Act, the Political Parties Control Act, the Statute of the High Commissioner, the Criminal Prosecution Act; we have created the Asset Recovery Office; we have strengthened the staff of the judicial bodies; we have approved the increased establishment of judicial places over the past twenty-five years and the number of prosecutors assigned to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is now more than double that four years ago. With regard to the Tax Agency, there has been a substantial increase in legal aid and, of course, everyone has acted and acts with absolute independence. Most importantly, Mr Sánchez: I am prepared to improve everything that needs to be improved in order to be more effective in the fight against corruption and to punish it; and I have signed with the President of Citizens a comprehensive package of measures in this area that I am prepared to implement and strengthen, provided that these are absolutely reasonable measures, so that when we have to hold a new investiture debate in this House, no one will have to debate this issue because it has become history. [[Mr. Luena López speaks words that are not perceived]] Your Honor, you have come to this debate to discuss some cases of corruption. I have come to this debate to raise the measures that I believe are positive for combating all cases of corruption, affecting the political force in question. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not cleaner the political leader who portrays his indignation at corruption, but the one who makes the most real effort to combat it. [[Ms Gonzalez Veracruz spoke words that were not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, within the cataract of praise which Mr Sánchez gave me in his speech, he referred, as could not be otherwise, to what has been the economic management of the Government over the last few years, to the results of it and to social policies. Mr Sánchez, I don't know if you need to remember, but you compare how the situation was when we arrived at the Government and how it is today. You are forcing me to do so; I have no alternative, because I cannot leave some of the statements we have heard here this morning unanswered. In 2011, which was the year in which we arrived at the government, at the end, as everyone remembers, 521,000 jobs were destroyed in Spain, more than 1,400 per day. In 2015, the last year we have been in the government, 525,000 jobs were created, more than 1,500 jobs per day. This is the most relevant and the most important result of the economic policy that has been carried out in Spain over the last few years. From an increase in unemployment above 10% per year, we have moved on to the opposite: to a job creation which, fortunately, is important and which, without a doubt, we must continue to make efforts to make it still important in the future to achieve that objective that can be achieved from the 20 million Spaniards working. Mr Sánchez, if you look at the labour force survey you will see that in 2011 unemployment rose to 12.4 per year These are the latest EPA data for the second quarter, and are now down to 11.2% per year. In 2011, economic growth was less than 1.8%, and in the past year it has risen by 3.2%. It's just that things have changed in our country. There is much talk of change here, but it should also be acknowledged that Spain has seen a very important change over the course of these four years, because it is not the same as a negative growth of 1.8% as a positive growth of 3.2%, which is also the most important of all the countries of the European Union. Mr Sánchez, in the second quarter, Spain grew by 0.8 %, France by 0%, Italy by 0%, and the euro area average was 0.3%. Hey, something's been done right, even if it was by mistake! Or recognize us, at least, that we are lucky, which is not bad either! [[Laughter.....................................]] Ladies and gentlemen, household credit fell by 40% in 2011, it fell by 40%, and now it grows by 13%. Look, that's a breakthrough. And SME credit fell by 17% and last year has grown by 13%. Well, I think that's a positive fact too! He's telling us about the government deficit. It is that the public deficit in Spain, after losing 70 billion euros of collection, reached 11%; and in 2011, when we arrived at the government, it was 9% and we have dropped it to 5; and we have dropped it to 5% with two years of economic recession that were the years 2012 and 2013. That 5% is a very high figure? Well, look, yes, and I am dissatisfied with the figure of 5% of the public deficit, as it could not be otherwise. But at least we have been able to negotiate with the European institutions, which have given us two more years to meet the public deficit target. You talk about public debt, but you don't give all the information to the House, because between 2007 and 2011 the public debt in Spain doubled, it simply doubled. And the public debt has also risen at the stage when I was President of the Government; of course it has risen, but it has not doubled. It has risen by 30 billion euros, but it is worth informing people: 40 billion euros were paid to suppliers, it was debt that was in the drawers; 100 billion euros were the Autonomous Liquidity Fund; 40 billion euros had to be used to heal the financial system, which was broken; 20 billion euros are contributions to the rescues of several countries, including Greece; 20 billion euros were the energy deficit, and then we have continued to have to cover the public deficit that is still, as I pointed out before, in 5%. Your Honor, let's talk about the change. Look, when we got here to finance it was a titanic task, and all of you will remember that there were a lot of administrations still there today. that they were unable to go to markets, and that there were administrations that were financed at 7.75 % per year; and today those same administrations are financed at 0%. We paid in 2011 a public debt interest of 5.5% and now we pay 1% and, in many issues, mainly short, they pay us for issuing. Ladies and gentlemen, change, inflation, 3.2% in 2011, is now negative. That is very positive to guarantee the purchasing power of the people, and that is very positive for the competitiveness of the Spanish economy. The external deficit, which is a demonstration of our competitiveness, clearly reflects how the economic pattern in Spain has changed all life into an external deficit, because we now have a surplus and this year we are going to have a surplus of almost 2%. That is an enormously positive fact. Households with all their unemployed members, households that do not reach the end of the month are much less, Mr Sánchez, than in 2011. I do not intend to burden you or talk to you about long-term unemployment, but I do want to talk about labour reform and data on workers' rights: it is not true, Mr Sánchez, as you have said on many occasions, that the coverage of workers who have collective agreements for labour reform has fallen. That's not true. The number of workers with an agreement now accounts for 90% of private employees, 2 points more than in 2011. It is not true, Mr Sánchez, that labour reform has generated a judicialization of labour relations. The number of dismissals that have been resolved by the courts in 2015 has been the lowest since 2008, and it is not true that labour reform has generated labour conflict, as 2015 has been the year with the least strikes since 1995. [[Prolonged applause]] What has generated labor reform and increased economic activity... Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that much remains to be done. I pointed out yesterday. The priority objective for the next four years is to continue to create jobs, but you will have to recognise the progress that has been made. It's just that we've been three years, 2014, 2015 and 2016 creating 500,000 jobs a year, you see the EPA. You talk about precariousness, but 75% of people working in Spain have an indefinite contract. I'd like it to be 100 percent, but we had reached 67 percent. I know that many jobs still need to be created in our country, but it is appropriate to be fair and balanced when it comes to issuing a judgment on the past situation, on the present situation and on what can happen in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed as I explained yesterday in this House. a government agreement with Citizens for the next four years. An agreement with which we intend, without liquidated all the good that has been done in our country over the past few years, to improve things. It is an agreement that represents an important effort by both political forces, and it has not been easy. We have each had to give up much of our approaches, but I believe that this is a sensible, reasonable agreement based on the experience of government and on many requests that have been made by many citizens whose priority is to liquidate unemployment. There is a clear commitment in this programme to the competitiveness of the economy, there are understandable measures, there are some that are the development of decisions that have been taken over these years and others that are novel. There is a second major objective, which is to maintain and improve the major pillars of the welfare state. Sometimes we are unable to recognize what is good in this country, but this country has a public pension system, now with almost 9.5 million pensioners and 130 billion euros. Yesterday I explained to them what the money was spent on our country. This country has a public health system like very few in the world, has a good education system, devotes more than 63% of public expenditure to social services. The fundamental objective is first to preserve and improve it. We have made a bet on this programme for institutional reforms. We have made a bet and an offer of covenants and agreements to those who want to join. Mr Sánchez, we have made an approach to Spain's unity, we have made an approach to institutional reforms, we have talked about the Toledo Pact, we want to negotiate autonomous financing, we need a pact for education, another for gender-based violence. This is to add to the many consensuses that exist at this time in this House on the fight against terrorism, on defence policy, on foreign policy. They are policies that have been agreed in this House. What is the reason, apart from the prejudices or interests that I am unable to understand, so that you are not able to understand I'm not talking about a deal. what I proposed on December 21st and I will repeat it later. that in my opinion the best thing for Spain was simply to let it govern who the Spaniards wanted it to govern? That's what you haven't explained, Mr. Sanchez. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the members of the Government in office, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u5	For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u6	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, do not be confused, most Spaniards do not agree with either the labour reform or the management you have made of the Barcenas case or your tax amnesty. That's why you don't have the majority to rule and that's why you're going to lose the investiture debate. [[Applauds]] It's not a matter of blocking, Mr. Rajoy. If you, with your candidacy at the end, get 170 votes in favour and 180 votes against, it is not a question of blockage, it is a question of democracy. The debate on investiture, Mr Rajoy, does not come to a mere conclusion, which is what we saw yesterday; it does not come to be hailed or applauded by the House as if what it did did not matter the next day; it comes to demand the confidence of the Members of this House, and the confidence of the Socialist Parliamentary Group you do not have, you do not have to continue to be President of the Government. You intend to be invested President of the Government by mixing water and oil, and that is not possible, Mr Rajoy. You have been told in the first of my interventions. a problem of parliamentary arithmetic, and that problem of parliamentary arithmetic is a consequence of its lack of credibility, and also of the policies it has perpetrated over the past four years and what it offers to this House for the next four years. It is good that you recognize it; it is not an investment agreement, it is a government agreement and therefore, understand with your circumstantial allies, but not with the rest of the House, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] You say that there has been no political party, no government that has fought more than you and your government against corruption. I'm just going to tell you what crimes your political party is being investigated for for long, huh?: illicit association, conspiracy, accounting falsity, fraud against public administrations, misappropriation, prevarication, fraud in contest with falsity in commercial document, crime against public finance in contest with continuous falsity, money laundering, influence trafficking, fraud, continuing electoral crime. But it's the whole Penal Code, Mr. Rajoy! [[Applauds]] You talk a lot about Germany, Merkel, and I remember that in the face of an irregular financing case that happened in the Helmut Kohl party which was then running the party, Mrs Merkel asked Please note that we are talking about one of the main collaborators of former Chancellor Kohl. Kohl's resignation in the leadership of the CDU, and he did so as a result of that irregular funding scandal. That is, in addition to the legislative measures that can be enacted in this House, Mr Rajoy, there is one thing called political responsibility. Mrs Merkel asked Mr Kohl. What is serious is not that the opposition asks you to assume political responsibilities; do you know what is serious, Mr Rajoy? That none of the 137 Members of the People's Parliamentary Group should demand political responsibilities and resignation from you. [[The ladies Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros and Lara Carbó speak words that are not perceived]] You ask for trust without management endorsement I have said this before in my speech, and there are also no proposals that merit this endorsement. You aspire to perpetuate the policies we have opposed during your four years of absolute majority. You say, Mr Rajoy, that we are constitutionalist parties. I would remind you of the appeals that you submit to the Constitutional Court when you are in the opposition and of the Socialist Party's appeals. You brought appeals before the Constitutional Court by the Law on Equality between Men and Women, which approved a socialist government; by the Law on Marriage between Persons of the Same Sex, which approved a socialist government; and by the Law on Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy, which approved a socialist government. You have a very different reading from the Spanish Constitution that the Socialist Party has. We are filing appeals with the Constitutional Court for your labour reform, for your local reform or for the education law that you imposed during the last legislature. [[Applauds]] Look, I don't know where you heard that I deny the urgency of having a government; but by making some of your sentences yesterday in your speech, Mr Rajoy, when you said that the government is not an end in itself, I tell you that the government is not an end in itself. Spain needs a clean government, it needs a government that is just, that is social and, above all, that builds a Spain of rights, freedoms and opportunities, which you are unable to build as you have demonstrated over the past four years. On responsibility, Mr Rajoy, you say that responsibility for not being president of the government lies with the Socialist Party. I remind you that the responsibility of the Socialist Party is unique and exclusive to the Socialist Party; we do not respond to the responsibility of the rest of the parliamentary forces in this House. If I tell you that you have freely presented yourself without sufficient support to carry out your investiture before this House, and I remind you again, Mr Rajoy, that when the Socialist Parliamentary Group submitted my candidature for investiture we did not blame the negative vote of the People's Parliamentary Group; and I insist, we did so because we understood that our proposal was an amendment to the whole of what you had done over the past four and a half years. That day, March 2, you called my investiture a farce I quote it textually because it seems important to me, Mr Rajoy, to show above all that you twist the arguments, that when you are interested you say one thing and the opposite, and the amazing thing is that you do it without deceiving yourself; and that too, the lack of credibility, having said one thing before and then the contrary, is what causes disaffection towards politics before public opinion. [[Mrs Sánchez-Camacho Pérez makes gestures of assent]] [[Applauds]] You said then, "I remember it because I think it's important." that my investiture had been a farce. I would like to remind you again: "... what the candidate is trying to make us believe is that if Spain does not have a government today, if it does not complete a majority, if he is not elected president, it will be the fault of all the others, who are the bad ones." And I say to you again, Mr Rajoy: if you do not have the 176 Members in favour of taking up your candidature, it will be your sole responsibility. Do not ask the Socialist Parliamentary Group for that support. [[Applauds]] On the same day, 2 March, Mr Rajoy, you defined our proposal for a government agreement, of 200 measures, as a curalotetodo. You described him as the balm of Fierabras, always at the cultural vanguard Mr Rajoy; I say this without sarcasm because El Quixote is the cultural vanguard. [[Laughter]] And he added textually, I open quotes, Mr. candidate: "To govern it is not enough to pile up a few ideas that sound good, such as who adorns a window or the Christmas tree; it is necessary that the ideas are consistent with what is necessary and what is possible to do, and besides that they can be paid, and the contrary is pure advertising talk". [[...]] This is what Mr. Rajoy said. He said for me: "You first shoot, then place the target where the arrow has fallen, and so, Your Honor, any one is right." That's what you said. He then said, "Things are done upside down, first the target is set." And he summarized his philosophy with this corollary of my investiture and my debate as follows: "...the dictionary of the Royal Academy defines the word bluf as a propaganda montage to create a prestige that later proves false." That's what you said. It is true that you then concealed a second sense of the word bluf in the dictionary of the Royal Academy. The dictionary also defines bluf, Mr. Rajoy. I open quotes. as an ‘intimidatory action by those who do not have the means to fulfil their threat' - Shut up. Come on, come on. That is to say, Mr Rajoy, you do not have the majority necessary to fulfil your threat to remain at the head of the Government for four years. [[One Member: Total Bluf]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief because there are not many new contributions to be responded to in Mr Sánchez's second speech here in the morning. He began his speech by saying that the Spaniards did not agree with some of the things we did when we had the responsibility of the Government in full office, and that is true. There are many things that the Spaniards do not agree with, but the Spaniards usually do the Spanish and anyone who is quoted in the ballot boxes, Mr Sánchez, and in the end they say that there are things that seem positive to them from each other and things that seem negative to them from each other. It is true that the Spaniards who voted for the People's Party do not agree with many things that the People's Party has done, and it is true that there are many Spaniards who, because they did not agree with many things, did not vote for us. However, in the end, democracy is as it is and there are many Spaniards, 2.5 million more votes, who have been more in agreement with the People's Party than with you, that's what you seem to have not assumed. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, why have I presented myself to the investiture on this occasion? Well, look, among other things, because you've been asking me to run for office since June 26th. [[Laughter]] Just, among other reasons. I guess that'll seem enough because, if it doesn't seem enough, it's enough to be deeply concerned. I am not going to go into data, imputed or irregular financing because I believe that we do not contribute anything to this debate, although I could, but it does not make any sense. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u9	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u10	I do not agree that we want to perpetuate the policies that we have carried out over the past four years, and what I have said and maintain is that the economic and social policies that have been implemented over the past four years have been good for Spain. What I do agree with is that I believe that the bulk of them should be maintained, which is what we have agreed with Citizens, and I also agree that it is possible to improve many of the actions and that is why we have also agreed with Citizens. I do not understand, on the other hand, that you blame me for the appeals before the Constitutional Court. If all the members of this House agreed to settle our differences by coming and obeying what the Constitutional Court said, as is the case in any rule of law, we would certainly do much better, Mr Sánchez. The Constitutional Court is for what the Spanish Constitution says that, among other things, we approve the vast majority of the parties that we are here today. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it no longer makes sense at this stage and in this speech it will respond to your criticisms and add new criticisms because it will bring nothing. If I'd like to say one thing, it's that we're in a different situation, Mr. Sanchez. I no longer come here today to ask for your confidence because, as I said at the beginning of my previous speech, I have fully understood all the parts of the no. The only thing I come to say is that we have reached an agreement with effort and there are 170 Members who share the programme that I generally presented here yesterday: let us at least govern, do not block and do not lead us to a third electoral call. That's what I'm asking you here; I'm not asking you for anything else. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a time when we are going to have to agree on almost everything and I am not afraid because I have a long political career, and I have had the fortune of participating in agreements that I think have been useful to this country, among others with several secretaries-general of your party. Already in 1992 there was an important political agreement which led to the reform of ten autonomous statutes, an agreement between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. I have reached agreements forming part of the delegation with nationalist parties. I was at the signing of the Majestic pacts and in the previous works in April 1996. I signed in 1998 with all political forces, as a minister, the Pact against Transfuguism. I have agreed with the then President of the Government in fifteen minutes, because the national interest demanded it, to reform article 135 of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] I agreed because it was required by national interest and because it was a European commitment, and I think it was a magnificent decision. [[Rumors]] [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.]] Don't forget what happened to those who went for other truths; don't forget. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] I have agreed with Mr Pérez Rubalcaba on a common position at a very important European Council for the reactivation of the so-called European Plan for Growth and Jobs. I have signed with you, at your initiative and at your request, the Agreement to Strengthen Unity in Defence of Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism. I have recently reached an agreement with the Citizens' Group to try to give a way out of the situation in which we are in. Well, Mr Sánchez, I am not asking you, as I asked you in your day, for a coalition or parliamentary agreement; I am asking you to let us govern and I am offering you 170 Members, eight agreements on key issues and I am asking you for some responsibility. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u11	For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u12	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, this is the investiture debate and, therefore, it is a debate on the confidence you give the House. [[Rumors. Several honourable Members: No!]] Yes, that is so; it is the investiture debate, Rule 99: The candidate will ask for confidence in the House, and I insist, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has no confidence in you, in your candidacy, not only for the things you have proposed for the next four years but for the things you have been doing for the past four years, which, by the way, have not been a song to the agreement, Mr Rajoy. [[A Member of Parliament: Not in you!]] You've confused absolute majority with absoluteism. I've said it many times. [[Rumors]] What you've done has been to rule in front of everyone. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u13	Mr. Sanchez, just a moment. Please, I beg you all to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u14	He will tell the People's Parliamentary Group; everyone in the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u15	Mr Sánchez, the President has ordered everyone to remain silent except the speaker, as the Rules of Procedure state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u16	Thank you, President. You, Mr Rajoy, what you have done over the past four years has been to rule alone and in front of everyone. Talk to the educational community, talk to the white tides, talk, for example, to the unions to simply contrast their opinion about their labour reform, if it has really been a reform that has strengthened, as you have said here in an incorrect way, the collective bargaining of workers. Mr Rajoy, the Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not going to abstain; it is not going to abstain from the question of whether or not we want to end corruption and that political responsibilities are assumed when such corruption is perpetrated, in this case by the party you are leading. It is not going to abstain from cuts in rights and freedoms or when democracy is surrounded, as you have done over the past four years. Do not ask the Socialist Parliamentary Group to do that, Mr Rajoy. I tell you this: the problem is not that the Socialists do not trust you; the problem, Mr Rajoy, is that you are not to be trusted. That is why we will vote against your candidacy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u17	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Without wishing to extend the debate, I would simply like to point out that I am absolutely aware of what the investiture session is, Mr Sánchez, I am absolutely aware that you do not trust me, but I am also absolutely aware that you came to an investiture session and had 131 votes; that is to say, you trust much less than you can trust the President of the People's Party. It is all very well that you tell me about the white tides, the trade unions, the teachers and anyone who wants to say it, but there is something that is very important and that we should never forget in this House. Democracy means a lot. One of them is the most important. It is that people choose who they want to govern, people manifest their preferences, and you should not forget that sometimes I have the feeling that it does, that since the last elections that have taken place it is true that I have in this House more people against that in favor, it is true, but my party has 137 seats and yours, 52 less, Mr Sánchez. I do not ask you to give me your confidence, I insist, I ask you, given the situation we are in at this time in our country after two elections and the threat of a third party, which seems to be your wish, to give you a way out. I ask you to abstain, I do not ask you to share anything with the People's Party, but Spain needs a government and we cannot be here waiting to hold elections after elections until there is a result that Mr Sánchez likes, because that is unfair to the Spaniards, because the conveniences of the Spaniards are above your own, Mr Sánchez. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. I remind you of the obligation of the Rules of Procedure to remain silent. Let's call the next speaker. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u20	Good morning, good morning, good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, yesterday you came up to this rostrum knowing that your words were not going to move a single vote in this House. Today we are going to debate here knowing that this debate is not going to change your fate. You are not going to be appointed president, Mr Rajoy, neither today nor Friday. You know, we all know it here and, above all, people know it. Then one wonders what we're doing here. When I was preparing my reply to your speech last night, I was wondering, Mr Rajoy, and I was left with the feeling that these kinds of events help people to believe that politics is this, that politics is the Members of Parliament or, in any case, the pacts that politicians try to make and sometimes come out and sometimes don't come out. In these months even we ourselves have experienced how this institution takes its members away from the problems of the street, but, fortunately, politics is not just this, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. Some of us broke into Spanish politics without being in this House and perhaps that is why we understand that what is really important is out there. The important thing is the millions of people who have the impression that this may be a paripé. This debate is not going to change what we are going to vote for the 350 people we hold in these seats, but it may be heard by the really important people, who are out there. A journalist whom I greatly appreciate sent me a message a few days ago from an old friend of his who campaigned in the PSUC; an honest and willing man. This man was telling my journalist friend that if the U.S. We wanted to win in respectability, we should facilitate his investiture, Mr. Rajoy. Don't worry, we won't follow this man's recommendation, but I confess you've made me reflect and I want to share my thoughts with you. Some on the left have long believed that respectability in politics is earned when the powerful recognize you. I'm sure if we made it easy for you today, Mr Rajoy, the gentlemen of IBEX 35 would stop considering us dangerous populists and order us to be treated better. But we are not like this, and I think I am not lying if I tell you that since we were born we have shown something: we are not bought, nor do we give in to the pressures or insults of the powerful and their wage earners. [[Applauds]] No one, absolutely no one in Spain conceives the possibility that we will renounce our principles and miss our word by making it easy for you. And you know what? I'm proud it's like this. It was clear that Citizens would fulfill the orders they gave from above and support them. It was clear that the Canary Coalition would also be his cane. Today it is speculated about what the PNV will do after September 25th. Yesterday Mr. Esteban said he was very upset. I sincerely hope that your goat wasn't overacting, because it wouldn't be the first time we've seen the PNV vote for an investiture in the People's Party. And I want to think that the goat was sincere, because today it would do nothing more harm to Euskadi and the Basques than a People's Party government with Citizens. It is also speculated about what the new Convergence will do, which had to be ashamed in Catalonia for having supported them with their secret vote in the election of the Bureau of this House. And from Friday, of course, the debate on whether the Socialist Party should support them or not will increase. And yet no one in Spain doubts that we with you are not going to go around the corner. No one doubts that we will always be in front of you. [[Applauds]] No one doubts, Mr Rajoy, that we are your antagonist, and I am proud to be your antagonist. We do not want the respectability that the recognition of the powerful gives; on the contrary, as the founder of the Socialist Party said, to deserve the hatred of those who poison the people is the greatest honor. And we are fortunate that the powerful honor us every day. [[Applauds]] Respectability does not give it to make tricks in Parliament or to swallow the toads imposed by the rich. Respectability in politics makes it possible to look your people in the face and tell them: I am here for you and for you. Our people are the ordinary people, the people of the neighborhoods and villages of this country of countries Our people get up early to work, to look for work, to get their small business ahead. [[Rumors]] Our people are the young people who have had to emigrate and those who have had to remain unemployed and precarious. Our people are the evicted families, grandparents and grandparents who extend their pension to help their children and grandchildren. Our people are the women who have to take care of their family alone or who have to take care of a dependent family member without help, because of their government. [[Applauds]] Our people are teachers and teachers, health professionals, uniformed citizens who are often forced to work without bulletproof vests. Our people are students without scholarships. And that's the people we want to be able to look at with pride, and those people know, even if they don't vote for us, that we don't betray our word or our principles. That's respectability, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] You know we're going to vote against your candidacy and you know you're going to have us in front of you all the time, but today I want to remind you why. Yesterday you dared to claim sovereignty and constitutionalism; you, who represent a party founded by ministers of a dictatorship whose foundation of thought was called for years Cánovas del Castillo, a respectable figure who despised universal suffrage. [[Rumors]] You, leader of the conservative tradition that begins in the Long Live the Caenas!, spoke yesterday of 1812. You're not from Pepa, Mr. Rajoy, nor from any Constitution. You are more of a letter granted, granted by Mrs Merkel. [[Applauds]] You spoke yesterday, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, of sovereignty... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u21	Wait a minute. Please, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u22	You spoke yesterday of sovereignty, precisely on the anniversary of the constitutional reform of Article 135 that you agreed with the Socialist Party without consulting the citizens. You said yesterday that the right to decide belongs to the Spanish people, when you are responsible for giving that right to Mrs Merkel and the financial powers. Do not speak of the word sovereignty, Mr Rajoy. That you continue to rule will be a disaster for ordinary people. With you in government leadership, the number of citizens at risk of poverty has increased, as well as the number of households that do not reach the end of the month and almost half of Spanish families cannot be allowed even a week's holiday. These are data from that year's Foessa report, Mr Rajoy. With you government leaders there have been cuts in health, in education, the number of people working has been reduced, the conditions and wages for which they still work have worsened, and we continue to have levels of unemployment, especially among young people. absolutely scandalous. Thanks to you, Mr Rajoy, we are leading European statistics in inequality. With you, as most people saw their living conditions deteriorate, their future threatened, and they looked at the abyss of poverty, the number of millionaires in Spain increased, and the IBEX executives saw their salaries grow. [[Applauds]] According to BBVA, little suspect of what you call populism, since you ruled three million Spaniards have fallen from the middle class. You have cut the lines for the prevention of male violence and the promotion of equal opportunities between men and women. To talk about your management is to talk about corruption; corruption is in the genes of your party, Mr Rajoy, since it was founded by former ministers linked to the most corrupt of the regimes that have existed in Spain. [[Let's give it up.]] You are Galician and even yourself have been shocked in your day by certain practices of your party in Galicia, where today they are running for a friend of a drug dealer. [[Applauds]] Corruption is not exclusive to your party, and I am not thinking only of 3% and ERE; that in Spain today there are dozens of former ministers and former presidents on IBEX 35 boards of directors is a form of legal corruption and an insult to democracy. But yours is special, Mr. Rajoy. You have naturalized corruption as a form of government in which you send those who do not stand for election. That is why, which you are assuming today of an agreement with Citizens that includes anti-corruption measures, is an indecent mockery. I will simply tell you: I do not believe you, it is a lie that you are going to fight corruption because you are corruption. [[Applauds]] You know as I do, Mr Rajoy, that the agreement you signed with Citizens is not going anywhere, but we have studied it in detail. With regard to anti-corruption measures, where citizens were supposed to have taken so many commitments from them, their agreement speaks only of the immediate separation of any public office formally charged with crimes of political corruption, but does not detail what those crimes are. The agreement applies only if the defendant has illegally stolen or financed his party. You know what this means? It means that a defendant for embezzlement and prevarication does not need to resign, as does a defendant for defrauding the Public Treasury. With his agreement neither Chaves, nor Griñán, nor Lucia Figar, nor Salvador Victoria, nor Jaume Matas, nor José Luis Baltar, nor Bárcenas would have had to resign. [[Applauds]] In labour matters, their agreement consolidates and hardens the worst of labour reforms, with measures such as the new temporary contract, the Austrian backpack or wage supplement. They refuse to regain collective bargaining and continue to reduce dismissal, and they do not take measures to prevent death in the trench. We've had nearly five hundred workers killed in the last 12 months. The agreement does not propose to change section 135, which prioritizes the payment of the debt, nor is there any question of the Budget Stability Act. You and your orange subsidiary intend to continue to pursue an economic policy whose absolute priority is to reduce the public deficit, and you know that this can only be done by also significantly reducing the burden of spending on GDP, thus making the supposed goal of recovering per capita spending on education and health unattainable. The document they have submitted renounces a tax reform that improves progressiveness and ensures sufficient resources to finance public services and reverse cuts. As far as social policies are concerned, the figures in the Annex Budget allocation show the low ambition of the alleged social shock plan. There is no commitment to the inter-professional minimum wage, nor is there a guaranteed income plan to effectively combat poverty. The wage supplement becomes, in fact, a subsidy with public funds to the low wages paid by some employers. As far as the fight against macho violence is concerned, they only envisage increased resources and allocations for the courts of violence, which we are glad about, but they do not specify the budget line. Preaching equality sounds very nice, but what counts, what saves lives, is financing it. We are tired of hearing good intentions that disappear in budgets. [[Applauds]] Its document talks about ensuring the universality of the coverage of the National Health System for all citizens. It was not clear whether it would involve the inclusion of migrant workers in an irregular situation, which was shameful. In order for universal health care to be a reality, what should be done, Mr Rajoy, is to repeal the 2012 Royal Decree and prevent private health from continuing to parasitize the public health system. With regard to pensions, the harmful aspects of the reforms already approved are not reversed. Not only have you emptied the pension box, you also refuse to guarantee the purchasing power of the pensioners. The territorial policy of your agreement bets to follow the path of irresponsibility that has caused unprecedented fractures in our country. Under the headings of harmonisation and coordination and the guarantee of budgetary stability, the drowning of the autonomous model is reinforced and it is committed to a clumsy recentralisation. The trilinguism bet covers an amendment to the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, which was adopted democratically and which has had an enormous integrative success. You do not understand that ours is a plurinational country. The fraternity between the peoples and the people of our country is built by democratic mechanisms and not by impositions, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] With regard to one of his star proposals, the election of the General Council of the Judiciary by the judiciary itself, his agreement takes us thirty years ago. In 1980 it was installed on the fallacy of the apolitical judiciary and it was the opposite, markedly conservative. The council is a governing body, not a representative body. It must defend judicial independence, appoint senior judicial officials and punish the wrongs they commit. Such an essential function cannot be solely in the hands of judges, nor can it be in the hands of the traditional parties that perverted the system to reward obedient, dependent judges and punish uncomfortable judges. Of the 150 agreed points, only six speak of foreign policy. Latin America is not mentioned this time which, curiously, was such a recurring theme in the electoral campaign. Neither do you talk about refugees who usually cry crocodile tears without ever fulfilling their commitments. They only mention the European Union and NATO, and they are betting on an erratic and clumsy counter-terrorism strategy based on punitive populism and military interventions, which have proved ineffective. Its foreign policy is summed up in: no change in Europe, no more bellicoseness, no cooperation. By the way, you've always been in favour of TTIP. I would like to know what you think, Mr Rajoy, in view of the voices that are coming to us these days from Germany and France. The agreement you have presented to us, Mr. candidate, will not only be unable to make you president, but also represents the will to continue with your subsidiary team on the path of economic inefficiency, social injustice and corruption. Yesterday you sounded the Aznar of "Spain goes well". The problem is that your idea of Spain leaves people out. I was outraged to hear you say yesterday that a government is needed to reassure European investors and partners. What is needed is a government that faces people, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] That is why I am telling you that we are going to vote against your candidacy and I assure you that our position will be maintained. It's a question of respectability. Mr. Cebrián is not going to write editorials to us asking us to support him. The elites, the very ones who came to pressure you to step aside and favor a great coalition, know that we do not give in. To deserve the hatred of those elites means to us to be respectable, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, I have already told you in a debate: you are neither left nor right; you are what you need and what you are ordered from above, because you do not even rule in your party. I was going to tell you that you're the catapore puppet of the elites, but I think you'll understand me better. I'm telling you that you're the regime's MacGyver gum: you're worth everything. [[Applauds]] The way Mr Rajoy is humiliating you in this House is quite embarrassing, Mr Rivera. Even these days you have come to recognize that by Spain you have lost credibility. You almost wrote your own epitaph: I lost credibility to God and Spain. [[Applauds]] And I'm sorry to inform you that your role in our political history is running out. You were born to stop the change and to be the crutch of the old. The other day Mrs. Villacis recognized him with singular shame: Our goal was to prevent Podemos from ruling. At the moment you have succeeded, but I am afraid that the orange bubble is deflating and this failed attempt to invest is going to leave you occupying the role you have to play. It's what MacGyver's gum has to be: it lasts what lasts. You have declared yourself an admirer of Suarez and I recall that you quoted him in the last investiture, in which you presented another successful pact. I guess the Suárez you admire is the Suárez who was president while Juan Carlos and the factual powers supported him, and who began to cease being so when he was no longer so useful to them and made his own decisions. Now it will be up to you to look at another Suarez, a Suarez with more merit, which founded the CDS in 1982. Because I'm afraid in the future you won't play more role than the one who played the CDS. By the way, Mario Conde was one of Mr. Suárez's greatest collaborators. That Mario Conde who admires you so much. I think I'd make a glorious couple with Mr. Garicano. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, I don't know if you remember that from this rostrum... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u24	I do not know if you remember that from this rostrum I warned you of the dangers of the "orange mortgage". [[Rumors]] I suppose you will agree with me that you have not been the most reliable or loyal partners in the light of what we are seeing today. It is true that we sometimes tell uncomfortable truths and that we are not to put the other cheek when we are beaten, but I assure you that to face the PP and its policies we are sure and you know it, you have seen it in the municipalities of change and you have seen it in several autonomous communities. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I take care, Mr. Sánchez, that your position is very uncomfortable. The 20-D elections changed the system of parties in Spain and forced his party to choose; to choose between building the future with the PP or building it with us. In the vicinity of his own party some even wanted to ban him from ruling with us. [[Rumors]] You have not been able to choose and that is why we are in the situation in which we are. But today I'm going to compliment you on something. We weren't sure that you were going to resist the pressures that you were subject to to compromise with the PP. I used to mention the editorials dictated by Mr. Cebrián, but the statements of some of your party's old glories I understand that they have put pressure hard to resist and yet you, so far, have kept your word. I understand that it has not had to be easy and that is why I thank you today for not facilitating a PP government. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] But it's time to decide, Mr. Sanchez. Some leaders of your party say that you are not going to try an alternative government to Rajoy's. That means openly betting on new elections. If that's your bet, tell the Spanish clearly today. We know it's hard, but we're willing to try. Despite our huge differences, grievances and mutual misgivings, I believe that political and electoral reality must push us to seek agreement. We have achieved this in many municipalities and in communities, and I am convinced that very soon we will also achieve it in Galicia. Today a majority of Members will be seen here rejecting the investiture of the PP. I think, with them, we should try. Make up your mind, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Rajoy, I'm just finishing up, today you're going to lose the vote, just like you're going to lose it on Friday. We are willing to try to build an alternative to you. But if we can't do it, if you can bend your arm to the Socialist Party or if it leads us to new elections, we will continue to work to gain the respectability of the people for whom we are here and for whom we are here. There is a man from whom I learned the meaning of respectability, to whom I want to pay tribute today, I wish I could sit in this Chamber!: Julio Rodríguez. A brilliant professional, with his life resolved, took a step forward. [[Rumors]] In exchange for nothing, he received insults and saw how his Government, Mr. Rajoy, intended in the most vile way to degrade his prestige by expelling him from the Army. In the face of the indignity of his Government, Julio represents to me respectability and decency, the mirror in which we want to look at ourselves. In Spain there are many men and women like Julio; decent people, brave, honest, ordinary, who deserve something better than you in government. [[Rumors]] We're here for them and for them. We arrived here pushed by the people, telling truths like fists, and today we constitute a broader political space that recognizes the diversity and plurinationality of our homeland and that, sooner or later, will govern. I am proud that I have contributed to making this possible and that, despite all the difficulties, there is today in my country a political option with the possibility of governing that faces you, Mr Rajoy. Many of you were offended that some of us raised our fists in this House, which for so long was subject to corruption, lies and cowardice. There are symbols that for you are old. I think, like Carlo Levi, that the future has the old heart and that there are gestures that pay tribute to the best of our history, our homeland and our peoples. Yesterday was commemorated the International Day of the Disappeared, and Spain leads the sinister European ranch in number of mass graves; in the world only Cambodia surpasses us. Let never forget triumph: for we were, for we are will be. [[Mr. Iglesias Turrion raises his right arm with his fist closed.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u25	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u26	Let's try. I don't think we're going to get it today and I have doubts, after the debates we've heard these days, that we're going to get it in the next few days. Get out of the day of the marmot we're set up on. Albert Einstein said, when asked what the third world war would be like: I don't know what the third world war will look like, but I can tell you, if there is anyone left, what the fourth world war will be like: it will be with sticks and stones. This is the great substantive debate that is going through our public expressions. Some clearly threaten that we either support your Government in this House or there will be third elections. And others seem that, by not expressing what alternative of government there would be to the one presented today by Mariano Rajoy, they also lead us to those third elections. Because, let's be clear at once, here are only three alternatives: either a People's Party government with the Citizens' Pact and with explicit or implicit support from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, or a Spanish Socialist Workers' Party government with us or third elections. There are no more alternatives. [[Applauds]] We can wait, we should not do this, patience is being exhausted in this regard, but we can wait, if you like, at the end of this debate. We can also wait, if you like, for the outcome of the elections in Galicia and the Basque Country. Or we can even wait until the Christmas towers to know what is the alternative that is finally incarnated. By the way, it is a very high policy to call third elections on Christmas, a very high policy, a great favour for democracy, gentlemen of the People's Party. And I'm not saying it, Mr. Xavier García Albiol, who is in the Chamber today, said it. When he expressed the possibility of the elections on 25 December, Christmas day, in a tweet in which he said: Let's see if Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón has "narices" to send 36 million Spaniards to repeat the elections on Christmas day. I don't know how you're doing. I don't know him that well, but in any case, it's a very low political height to ask for an election to get majorities at the expense of absenteeism. We can wait, but here there is a question: either we get caught up in the past, and the past is called the People's Party, or we try to buy time to see if in a third election we can also go back to that past that is called bipartisanism, or we finally do it in front of the present to build the future, which is the alternative we want to bring here today. Because if not, what? What if there's a third election and the result is the same? Or a quarter, those with sticks and stones? Is that the message that's going to be given to the citizenry? Is the alternative complex? It is, of course, the alternative is complex. As complex as the disaster that has left us four years of People's Party government here. For us, and here you don't put pressure on us, that is, you don't ask us to abstain -... Five years, Mr. Hernando announces to me. Well, one of them in office, but let's get to the point. You do not put pressure on us to do so either to abstain or to give them the yes because it is very clear to us: you cannot continue to rule. The party that has beaten all the records of corruption in this country and were high, we will recognize it, the party of Gürtel, Bárcenas, Púnica, Palma Arena, Noos, Aquamed, Taula; the party that has robbed the citizens of this country is not and cannot be the future of this country. [[Applauds]] And that party, Mr. Rivera, can't be bleached, no matter how good your Dixan is, that party isn't bleachable. It cannot be that his message of regeneration is to give a government to the People's Party. And a warning about that, Mr. Rivera: Rome doesn't pay traitors. Take care of your backs in a possible third election because, as demonstrated yesterday, you don't pay traitors. [[Applauds]] Another little warning and two thoughts. The first is that I listened carefully to Mr Rivera's presentation of the pact with the People's Party, and in that presentation, in that final annex of Santiago and closes Spain, as if the People's Party needed to be more committed to Santiago and closes Spain, you, Mr Rivera, literally said that you were not going to allow a referendum outside the Constitution. Absolutely agree. I recommend reading "A referendum?", an article by Mr. Francesc de Carreras, and I think you know Mr. Francesc de Carreras, according to which the proposal for a referendum that we are holding can be made within the Constitution. Mr. Rajoy, I'm just finishing up, yesterday I didn't agree with your speech. In fact, at one point even scared me, the moment you said we had overcome the crisis without devaluing the currency for the first time in history. I had the impression not only that Aznar came back, but that we went back to the peseta directly, because here there is no capacity to devalue the currency. But I did agree on one thing. You said: the first right that assists all Spaniards is the ability to decide about their own nation. Indeed, it is that right that Catalans and Catalans also have to decide about their nation and how that nation can fit in. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up fast. You can't rule in this country, and that's the lesson you should learn all at once, because until when are you going to exhaust our patience, you can't rule without the representation and the cry you made on December 20, which is the cry against the tearing inequality to which you have condemned the citizen. Nor can one govern in this country without the freedom and possibility of discussing how the peoples of Spain, the peoples of this State, are configured. In that sense I will remember that without those two screams you can go to thirds, to fourths, with sticks, with knives, but it cannot be ruled because the alternative is also built from us. [[Applauds]] Now that we are close to the Diada, on 11 September in Catalonia, it is worth recalling other words by Manuel Azaña referring to 1714, referring to that moment. Manuel Azaña said: The last peninsular state from the former Catholic monarchy that succumbed to the weight of the despotic and absolutist crown was Catalonia. And the defender of Catalan freedoms could rightly say that he was the last defender of Spanish freedoms. In that sense, we will continue to fight for all our freedoms, we will continue to build from all our freedoms. We are the real alternative of this country and, in this sense, they must know that we will never be able to be if we are not free. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u27	Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Rajoy. You will recall the last debate on the state of the nation in which I warned you that it was my first debate of these characteristics and expressed my wish that it should also be your last debate, that is, that you should not be president any longer. We're still thinking the same thing today, but it's nothing personal, Mr. Rajoy. Nor are they business at least not for us, it is a deep ethical-political conviction of what is and is not necessary for us in our country. And it is not necessary, and indeed counterproductive, for the People's Party Government to continue to govern with its policies. Mr Rajoy, you are the representative of the corrupt organization that you have governed in our country over the past five years and I must admit that in the past five years your policy has been a success. It was a success. The drawback is that it has been a success for the privileged and for those who constantly parasitize the public, because their policies, always complicit with those of Merkel and the European Union, of the financial capital that has been imposing adjustment plans and cuts in the social majority, are the ones that have brought the profits for the big companies and the penalty for the social majority. And you, with Dr. Mengele's subtlety, have tortured statistics to end up saying there's economic recovery. [[Rumors]] And that economic recovery that you're talking about is actually the economic recovery of the richest, but that economic recovery that you're talking about is precariousness, misery, inequality, and where before there was an indefinite contract with a salary of 1,400 euros now there are two temporary contracts of 700 euros, and where before there was a future now there's emigration, and where before there were labor rights now there's a desert and millions of overtime uncollected. That's what you've called economic recovery. Mr Rajoy, yesterday half of the things he said were lies and the other half was apologia of the same policies that have brought us here, of neoliberal policies, of social cuts and of fiscal consolidation, which is euphemism; legal corruption and impoverishment of the working class. Mr Rajoy, we do not forget your policies because you have been implementing them and continue to apply them right now. Let me give you an example, fiscal policy. The amount of gifts and whims to big companies and big fortunes has cost us in their last expression of tax reform 8 billion euros to the social majority. The privatisations that have accompanied his economic policy have cost us another billion euros; moreover, the latest of AENA has cost us 5 billion euros. And if we add to that all the policies aimed at the socialization of losses and the privatization of profits, we find that you are artists of finance. You're a sort of neo-liberal king Midas, everything you touch makes you private. Perhaps that explains why in your party, the People's Party, there is not a treasurer left unaccounted for by corruption, because you make everything public in private when you rule and also when you are within your own political party. Mr Rajoy, our country needs a government that prohibits privatization, that bans this kind of legal corruption that transforms and distorts the origin and meaning of the public. Our country needs to regain labour rights, and that is not included in the Citizens' Pact with the People's Party. On the contrary, what we have is more regression, attack on collective bargaining, attack on labour rights. We have to reverse the two most recent labour reforms, that of the People's Party and that of the Socialist Party; we have to reverse them because we need to recover the economy through wages and not through impoverishment. Mr Rajoy, we need an economic change, we need you not to be president. You spoke for the oligarchy yesterday and is consistent with your covenant, I admit, you spoke for a minority of society. But, Mr Rajoy, in our country there are people who can't eat three times a day, in our country there are people who live in the dark, in our country there are people who can't heat their home in winter because they don't have enough money, and you remember that because two years ago they voted against a law of energy poverty that we had proposed in this very Parliament. You know who we're talking about, a social majority you don't know, maybe because you don't walk the same floor as the social majority, but those people are the same as us. Wait for an alternative. We want and express the need to break with a political and economic regime that has legalized corruption, looting and injustice, to break with a criminal economic system that is impoverishing us and that, while impoverishing us, enriches the usual, the great fortunes and the great companies that you represent as well as in this agreement of Citizens and People's Party. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, in this case we are going to vote that no and in the next case, on Friday, we are going to vote that no, because we want to aspire to a different social order, to a different society, to a different country, where we can move from the realm of necessity to the realm of freedom, with values and principles different from those used by the People's Party; values and principles of freedom, equality and fraternity. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. Cheers and Republic! [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u29	I give the floor to Mrs Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u30	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Either we or chaos, this looks like the fashion slogan of the Spanish right. The other day Núñez Feijóo said: enough of blockades, like who shakes a scarecrow to go scaring. This is overacting and speech of fear, and that is the right one today. Gentlemen of the People's Party, stop the tragic media. The Spanish state has been without government for a year and everything continues the same as when you ruled. In the low-intensity democracies that exist today in the European Union, the autopilot ensures that the inertia of the order of things continues without overburdening. Without government, the neoliberal programme, that splinter of the welfare state, continues to do its work tirelessly. The autopilot plays for the home, or rather for the palace. As long as you know this, without haste, as long as the program is applied, you have focused on dramatization. With this agreement with Citizens they have tried to hide the real implications of this program on people's lives and have made banality the fundamental subject of the agreement of the right. However, there is something that forces them to ease the pace, Brussels has already prepared a new schedule of cuts for the next two years, and this pact between the old right and the new right, between the tradition of those who were born to send the cork over and this postmodern reincarnation of the Chicago boys aims to take back the helm of the ship to tread the accelerator of cuts and privatizations. And here, outside the palace, on the streets, for that majority that continues to pay the consequences of a crisis that has not caused, the urgency is not that, the urgency is to have a job with decent working conditions; it is to have a home, to have quality public services. And we will always work to make the agenda of the social majority, the agenda that is out there, the one that marks the rhythms in the institutions. [[Applauds]] The only real fear that people are really suffering is that you continue to rule, that you continue to implement the programme of great inequality, loss of rights, environmental degradation, violence against women, economic exile and job insecurity. The only fear is that they instil their patriotic hooliganism, which prevents them from recognizing a plurinational reality of the State and which aims to prescribe re-centralizing reforms, because for you all diversity is a threat and every exercise of free decision an attack on your authority. You yourself, Mr Rajoy, embody the contempt for the self-government, language and culture of the land in which you were born; a country, Galicia, where Feijóo has been with you, Mr Rajoy, a pupil advanced in the fulfillment of the dogmas with which this automatic driver of this low-intensity democracy acts. And the champion of deficit fulfillment is consequently the champion of cuts, and we know it very well in Vigo, where the sensitivity for the program of harassment and destruction of public health is in bloom. And firefighters are also aware of this, increasingly with worse working conditions and techniques to deal with a fire caused by a zero policy of forest planning and management and a model of exploitation at the service of the ENCE waste bin. This is also known to dairy producers, who continue to see how the product of their work is sold below production costs. The unemployed, the precarious, the self-employed asphyxiated, the mortgaged, who do not see the light at the end of this tunnel, the pensioners, who in Galicia receive the lowest pensions of the State, know this. We all know that, as everyone already knows, you have been corrupted beyond our possibilities. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, today you will repeat the deferred defeat of 20 December, which will be at the same time the defeat of the Galician People's Party on 25 September. Today, of course, before this suicide pact, we will vote no. We will vote not to prevent them from continuing to market our lives and mortgage our future. And in the face of his fear, of this policy of fear, Galicia will once again be a political vanguard in the unity of the transforming left. In Marea we are going to work hard so that the Galicians and the Galicians, with the strength of their dignity, help us to make a turn in this wrong direction of an automatic pilot who takes us irresistibly against the rocks. We want to embark on a new union in which no one is left behind because of an economic crisis. We must remember, on a continental scale, that it will not get worse because there are new elections or not, but because of its government action in the service of usury and speculation against our lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u31	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the proposals made by the various spokesmen of Podemos to govern Spain, I take the floor to try to argue for or against them. Mr Sánchez, I told you in my speech yesterday, and I now ratify that the alternative is a thousand radical and ineffective colors. Mr. Churches, you're great. Sometimes I wonder if I'd like to be like you because it's the quintessence of all virtues. Never get confused, always correct, is the only decent, the only independent, the only one no one is able to press. The IBEX pushes us all, we must all be at IBEX's command and probably have a room there. [[Laughter]] But, of course, is there, in addition to you and your fellow religious, someone in this House who has something good? Maybe there isn't, we find out and we make efforts to overcome ourselves in the future, but is there anyone who has anything good in this House? In other words, is it that everyone who doesn't like you is bad and all of your co-religionaries are good, Mr. Churches? Hey, and if that's the case, I don't know, why? Is that an objective fact? Is that indisputable? Can you argue in front of that? Are we bad for genetic reasons or have we been acquiring it over the course of our lives? [[Laughter and applause]] Are you the only Democrat in Spain? Do you think I'm not a Democrat? Maybe you'll consider it. Man, I run for election, sometimes I lose, sometimes I lose many, sometimes I win, but maybe you think I'm not a Democrat. Are you the only Democrat in this House? Are you the only honorable one in Spain? Look, I've never reproached you for raising your fist until it's mandatory, Mr. Churches. [[Laughter and applause]] Do you not believe, Mr. Churches, that the old discourse of the rich and the non-rich is somewhat out of date? Mr. Churches, I do not consider myself rich, I assure you that you have never pressured me any rich, if you had pressured me any rich, you would have me exactly without care, just as if you had. [[Mr. Turrion Churches makes gestures]] Yes, yes, I would pay more attention to you because you are a Member, you are right, and representative of national sovereignty. [[Applauds]] Eight million people are voting for us. You are voted students, grandparents, workers, professors, self-employed, merchants and add up to 5 million and it is an important figure. Hey, what about the others who vote for us? The rich or the lost people? [[Laughter]] You talk a lot about people, but it's convenient from time to time, besides talking about people, to listen to people because there are people for all tastes and people with different tastes. Therefore, no one has the heritage of the people, neither you nor we, although we have a little more, at least in these last elections. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you have spoken of national sovereignty and I am in favour of national sovereignty. He has said that I am in charge, in addition to the rich and the powerful, of Mrs Merkel, but I have to say that I defended national sovereignty at a very hard time in the history of Spain, in 2012, and others did not or probably could not; surely they could not. I will tell you what has happened in some of the countries that you know well about the European Union that were unable to defend their national sovereignty. In the income tax of natural persons they have had to reduce the minimum exemption and have raised the rate to all taxpayers. The tax rate on SMEs has risen to 24%, Mr Iglesias. They have created new taxes on telephony, coffee and beer. The taxes on petrol and diesel have gone up. The VAT charged on staying in hotels and accommodation on the islands has been raised to 24 %. This is 10%, Mr. Churches, among other things because we have been able to defend national sovereignty. The new pensions have generally been reduced by between 15% and 20% and for those who now retire with more than twenty-five years of contributions, the reduction will be 30%. The minimum pension has been reduced by 30%. The equivalent of the country concerned to the minimum supplement shall be deleted. Of those who receive the supplement at a minimum, more than 30% will lose aid for the purchase of medicines and the rest will see their pharmaceutical co-op increased from 10% to 25%. The corralite that started almost a year ago remains in force and the weekly cash limits of 420 euros are maintained. There are restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Capital control mainly affects SMEs and credit continues to fall to businesses and families. Some in Spain, most of us in this House, who are so bad, something positive we will have done to preserve our national sovereignty and in difficult times defend the position of what you call people and who want to father, Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] Allow me to say something to you with all due respect and with my best wishes and it is that neither you nor you will have to agree with me that it is true what I am going to say that you have the heritage of good feelings and neither have the heritage of good intentions nor have the heritage of social sensitivity nor the heritage of justice. We are likely to agree on many objectives, Mr. Iglesias, and it is logical. I believe that all the people who are in this House and who represent national sovereignty want it to be good for everyone, for economic growth and employment in Spain, for better consumption and for people to live well. I don't know anyone, except the quintessence of evil, who can't turn those goals into a normal and decent human being. We will therefore agree on many objectives. It is clear that we are going to disagree in many of the means to achieve those objectives, but I candidly say that my party and I do not move anything but the general interest. Sometimes they want to make us look like a scarecrow. We are a centerright party, right if you want, like the ones in Europe. We have been in public Spanish for many years, we have done good things, we have done bad things; we have been wrong, we have been right; sometimes we are voted on, sometimes we are not voted on, but we are a party that we are part of the European People's Party, which we believe and you cannot go up to this rostrum to use the qualifications you have used today. The debate is not the good intentions that we all have; the debate is what to do and how to do it to solve the problems that a society has. That is the debate, Mr Iglesias. Spain has experienced a very complex situation. We already know it, very difficult. Before I explained where we started and where we are at the moment. I am not going to repeat the information I have provided to the House as a whole before, but there are some issues, because it has referred to them in your speech, which I would like to quote here today. You are talking about poverty indicators, which is certainly a very important issue, a worrying one. We have made an effort, we must do so much more, and according to the latest Eurostat data, I already want to continue working to make this data better in Spain and Europe, in the euro area in 2014 severe material poverty was 7.4 and has fallen to 7.1 in a year. [[Show a chart]] In Spain it was 7.1 and has dropped 0.7, i.e. it has dropped to 6.4 in one year. I think this is a positive fact. It is true that the data that mark inequality, poverty, the Gini and Arope 80/20 indices rose fundamentally for a reason, for the spectacular increase in unemployment in a very short time, a very worrying rise. But it is also true that, as is the case with the Spanish economy as a whole, let us talk about macroeconomic figures or what people's lives are about, things are evolving better, but it seems to me that it makes no sense to overwhelm them with data. The same is true of something that does directly affect people's lives and that is a very clear and clear indication of how people live, such as the evolution of consumption. In Spain there has been a drop in consumption in recent years and the beginnings of the recovery were not linked to consumption; they were mainly linked to the foreign sector and exports. Now, fortunately, exports are still going well and so is tourism, but consumption is recovering. Until March 2016 it grew by 3.7% in the year-on-year. These are positive facts, Mr. Churches. I understand that there are many things that are wrong, but the retail sales index is rising by 5% or 6% annually, and I remember that for many years it has been going down continuously. The same applies to the sales of large companies. Enrolment in tourism in the last three years No, no, no, no, no, no, no, They're coming up. In 2015, there was an annual growth of 21 %. Home purchases, after three years of decline, are increasing, in the first half of this year they rose by 16%. This is due to the combination of some factors that is positive to value. Firstly, by creating jobs. It is logical that consumption increases if there are more people working, because they have more resources. Secondly, and this is also important because of the moderate evolution of prices. We have already had a price rise for many quarters below the European and German levels. That is good for purchasing power and it is also good for the competitiveness of companies. The development of financial conditions is also very important for this purpose. I remember that one of the great battles we had to fight was the impossibility of financial institutions giving credit neither to households nor to companies being large, small or medium. Household loans have increased by 25% in 2015, says the Bank of Spain, which is very positive, and housing credit by 33%. This was also influenced by the tax reform that came into force on 1 January 2015 and generated growth. Therefore, Mr. Churches, I cannot accept that vision that you convey of what our country is. Our country has its good things, its bad things, is a great country, one of the best in the world, yes, and one of the countries where people live best. Yes, when 70 million tourists or Erasmus students come, or when there are 6 million foreigners, it will be because this country has something to offer them. [[Applauds]] Mr Domènech has put forward the three possible alternatives to get out of this situation. They're the ones already known. One, which we have raised in this House is the People's Party, Citizens and the Canary Coalition, and our coalitions before the elections, which is what I am defending here. Honestly, I think it's the best, and that's why I put it. Firstly, it respects as nothing the will of the voters, because the party I chair has 52 more seats than the second political force, and that in democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has a value. Secondly, because these political forces agree on the basic issues and the broad rules that establish coexistence in our country. Thirdly, because this is what is being done in Europe, because I believe it is a good message outside and inside Spain and because I believe that at this time it is the one that can bring the most confidence to those who can generate welfare, wealth and employment. Indeed, there is the second possibility of a left-wing government, with you, with the Socialist Party, with the groups that make up your coalition and with more, with more, Mr Domènech, they are needed more, you know it and so do I. And there's a third alternative that's elections. You think one way and I think another, but I think I have given plenty of reasons and arguments to defend my position. I do not know what has bothered you about my assertion that we have emerged from the crisis without devaluing the currency because it is quite reasonable. We have emerged from many crises in Spain with a devaluation, when we were not in the euro... [[Rumors]] But it is much harder to get out of a crisis without devaluing the currency. What do you want me to say? [[Rumors]] I do not know why you say that I want to go back to the peseta; I do not want to go back to the peseta, I am an enthusiastic Europeanist and I am in favour of the euro. You guys, I don't know, I guess it depends on the moment we meet. Yes, quoting Azaña to argue in favor of the right of self-determination is something that you have to explain to me with meridian clarity... [[Applauds]] And if you don't, read it. The evening in Benicarlo. I don't understand that. Mr Garzón has made a moderate argument about the situation of the Spanish economy, about our economic system and about the misfortunes that the 46 million Spaniards live every day. I am not going to repeat what I have told your colleagues and even Mr Sánchez, but I am going to take this opportunity because I think it is good too. to recommend that from time to time you speak well of Spain. In Spain there are some good things. For example, there is a welfare system that does not exist in almost any country in the world. One day I remember Mr. Iglesias making a compliment, very reason, of the Spanish public health and I said: Man, this is what we agree on! The same applies to our education system and our pension system and our social services system. Is it better? Of course I do, but if we compare, I think we're on top. Infrastructure. Do you know any country... Is Perhaps in the world it is exaggerated, but you will not know three countries in the world with a system of railway infrastructure, high speed, highways and highways like ours. There are 46% of the equivalent of our GDP invested outside. We are the second country in the world to receive tourists, the first country in the world to receive Erasmus, the first country in the world in transplants. Some positive things are in our country. And a very reasonable standard of living, as they collect all the statistics that are published with everything that is questionable have the statistics, but I think we can be proud of some things in our country. This is not the merit of a political party, this has not been done by the People's Party. This has been done by the people, the people you are talking about, those who are voting for you and those who may or may not be voting for other different political forces. [[Laughter.....................................]] I shall now reply to the statement made by the representative of Mareas. [[Rumors]] He said that they will win the elections; he quoted Núñez Feijóo and seemed to me to understand that he is not very in favor, but for taste they certainly paint colors. [[Laughter.....................................]] I would also like to give you some positive information. The Galician economy, which is my land and to great honor, as you know, grew by 3.2% last year. I've never grown this much since 2007. Galicia met, was one of three autonomys that has met for the sixth consecutive year, the deficit target. It closed 2015 with a historical record of exports. There has been very important progress in emblematic sectors, as you know very well, for Galicia, such as automotive, naval or aeronautical industry. He's dropping the unemployment rate. We have invested a lot in Galicia over the last few years. The great goal has to be the arrival of high speed. Important and difficult parts are pending for technical reasons of the Zamora-Orense stretch, but the Cantabrian motorway is definitely closed. I think there has been a good battle, with its problems and its difficulties, because it is not always easy to get what you want, in agricultural, fishing and livestock matters, very important sectors, as you know as much or better than I do, for Galicia. And therefore, even though I am aware that there are many things that are pending, I think that progress is being made in the right direction. You said that Núñez Feijóo is going to have to go and that the defeat of the PP is imminent. It may be so. Until now it has never occurred since elections, but it is clear that it will ever be. I hope I don't see it myself, which I also hope and is compatible. live many years, if you don't mind. [[Laughter.....................................]] But, Your Honor, talking about the contempt that we feel for those who are from a land to all of ours frankly leads to nothing and is profoundly unjust. You can see Galicia in one way and I can see it in another. Who's right? Probably you, but some reason I can also have me, and everyone feels and wants their land as they feel and as they want it, and it's good to respect it. [[Several Members: Very well!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to finish my speech without making a brief comment on the management of the municipalities, because everyone here boasts a lot of things. I mean, when you act with ideological prejudice, you hurt a lot of people, you stop investment, and you stop a lot of people who don't have a job from getting it. The large Spanish municipalities, which have a large population, should not be subject in the actions of their rulers to the paralysis of investments and job creation. That is a good contribution to people's lives, not to stop them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u33	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rajoy. The truth is that it is a pleasure and an honor to discuss with you. Unfortunately, it hasn't been too frequent; it's actually the first time I've discussed it with you. We once coincide in a television debate with other candidates, and that we can debate is a positive thing. I am surprised that sometimes in this House, in the investiture debates, some speakers come out with the prepared things; I am going to stick to the speech you have made, because I think it is a positive thing that we are debating here and that we are referring to the things we are being told. [[Rumors]] You say you want to be great; you are, to me you seem a great lord and I think you have many good things. You have a sense of humor, you're an ironic type, I think you're a shrinking parliamentarian who attracts our attention when you come up to the rostrum and it's interesting to discuss with you. The problem is not that, the problem is not personal, Mr Rajoy, it is not that you don't have something good at it in the personal sense that you do, like everyone else; the problem is the results of your governments. And you will agree with me on what reasons to be self-critical you have to have. There has been one thing, both in your speech and that of Mr Sánchez, which has drawn my attention to the devaluations. You said: we have emerged from a crisis without devaluation. Of course, it is that Spain cannot devalue the currency, it would be an impressive thing if we came out of a crisis devaluing. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Just as Mr Sánchez said that interesting monetary policies must be implemented. Yes, what happens is that it does not depend on our country, it basically depends on the European Central Bank. It's okay to discuss these things. This has a curious element, I do not know if you have betrayed the subconscious, because you said: we have emerged from the crisis without devaluing the currency; of course, devaluing the currency cannot be because there is no peseta. So, what can be devalued? The wages, the living conditions of the people. [[Applauds]] If we turn to what you have said, after saying with sympathy the obvious, what you have acknowledged is that of course we have come out of a crisis devaluing, because you cannot get out of a crisis without devaluing, in this case wages. You said you were a Democrat. Well, this is very easy to say, what happens is that being a Democrat has a number of implications. I told you earlier in my speech about the notion of sovereignty. On the anniversary when you come to an agreement to reform Article 135 of the Constitution which gives our country's sovereignty to external powers and causes, regardless of what Parliament decides, which is the depositary of popular sovereignty, a government is obliged to take measures that may affect its people, you understand if I tell you that is at least to assume a democratic deficit for our country. When Parliament cannot decide and it is decided from outside, we have a little less democracy. Those who cut off democracy, I believe, are less democrats than those who understand that the decisions of a country have to be made by the people of that country through their representatives and not by the financial powers and Mrs Merkel. [[Applauds]] I think you were reckless in talking about the compulsory nature of certain symbols. He didn't want to remind him again, but his party founded him by gentlemen who forced him to make the Roman greeting and who sometimes swore their charges in blue shirts. Then, when you speak of the compulsory signs, have a little decorum because Spain is not forgotten where you come from; Spain is not forgotten that its party is founded by the paintings of a dictatorship. [[Protests.................................................]] Those were the only ones in Spain who had forced certain gestures; those were the ones that banned the other political parties and those were the ones that had made us feel ashamed that there was a dictatorship in our country for forty years. I know you're ashamed of it, but it's the truth, your party founded it as ministers of a dictatorship. It's all there is. [[Applauds]] People. If the problem here is not who everyone votes for; you vote for a lot of people, as well as us. The problem is the measures that one decides and whether those measures are close to people or not. He said something that surprised me. He said: IBEX 35 does not press me and does not set me a floor. Perhaps not to you at the moment, but to Mr Aznar, Mrs Salgado and Mr Felipe González not a floor, but a position on your board of directors they have reserved for them. [[Applauds]] From Unite Podemos and from the confluences there is no one who sits on a board of directors. You know why? Because we are not being pressured or offered positions on boards of directors. [[Protests.................................................]] He also said, with regard to sovereignty, that you are under no pressure from anyone and that doing politics, after all, is working for people. But you said yesterday: We need a government that does not scare investors or European partners. What are we left with, Mr. Mariano Rajoy? Is your government facing whom, European investors and partners, or citizens? We have two different concepts of democracy, we think that a government faces the citizens. [[Applauds]] He's been talking about Greece and it's got noses, with forgiveness. It turns out that, as a result of the management of his brother party in Greece, New Democracy, where Mr. Lucas Papademos, as Montoro also apparently did, It distorts accounting, they have turned a European Union country into a protectorate, and you welcome it. It is a country that does not have the capacity to make political decisions and you are delighted that your brother party there is destroying the Greek economy and turning the country into a protectorate, which is a humiliation for the European spirit, and you boast and breastfeed saying: No, if in the end in Europe we have to do what they tell us from Germany or we become a protectorate. That, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, is incompatible with being a Democrat and defending sovereignty. [[Applauds]] The data. I think it's very difficult. I told you in my previous speech. to suggest that we have reason to be optimistic. It was no longer credible what Mr Aznar said when he talked about Spain going well, and that was the time of the bubble, of the urban balls and the time when his management turned corruption into a form of government, and of those dusts, these muds. You said today, in 2016, that Spain is doing well, that economic data calls for optimism, when we head European statistics in inequality and behind those statistics there are people, there are people who do not arrive at the end of the month, children who suffer poverty, children who do not feed properly, young people who have to leave Spain; so don't say that Spain is going well. Spain is the Spaniards not the peace of investors nor the peace of their European partners. [[Applauds]] It has given a figure which is the one referring to consumption. This is like devaluation, which is not up to you. When it turns out that the euro-dollar relationship changes, when oil prices change and when, moreover, in the last months of its management they start to do what some say we have to do more expansive policies and loosen up a little bit more, then there are some consumption data that call optimism, but from the contrary to what you do. If they reduce wages, if they increase job insecurity, how will they increase consumption? You will say: No, our labour reforms have not contributed to diminishing the bargaining capacity of workers, their wages and their conditions. Then why did they strike a general strike? You and you, both of you, there were two general strikes for your labor reforms. [[Noting the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] That's what workers do because their reforms impede their bargaining capacity, lower wages and increase precariousness, and that translates into less consumption, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] You said Spain is a country that many people come to. In recent times, unfortunately, they come less and more and more and they do not go on adventure As one of its ministers said, the young Spaniards are leaving because this country does not offer them an alternative. And that's the result of your policies. He talked about Madrid and Barcelona. I'll tell you. Where we govern increases foreign investment and in the case of Madrid we have managed to reduce the debt. [[Protests.]] It's official data even if it hurts you. [[Mr Errejón Galván: Debt is reduced]] There's one thing you've said that's true, completely true. There are three options in this country: repeat elections; a government of yours through an agreement with the Socialist Party because, if not, there is no way; or a government through an agreement of the Socialist Party with us. Do you know what's playing on those three options? Basically from the ideas of Spain. Your idea of Spain has something to do with you. It is impressive, you said that when I criticize your party and your government, I am criticizing Spain! Spain is not you! Spain is not your government! Spain is the people! It's not the investors! They are not European partners! [[Applauds]] For us, who are a political force I remember him. of state level with important electoral results throughout the territory, it is very difficult to propose a collective project, a project of brotherhood when it is a subaltern political force as you are in Catalonia and as you are in the Basque Country. I tell you: our idea of Spain is with its peoples and its people inside, because this country is the people that make up this country, they are not the flags that carry some on the bracelet while they have accounts in Switzerland or Andorra. That is the difference of the idea of Spain that we have! For us, Spain is their people and their people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u35	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Iglesias for his initial words, and I am very pleased that I think I am excellent. And it stimulates me because I think I can get over it. [[Rumors....................................]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that I have reason to make self-criticism, and in a way the agreement that my party has reached with Citizens contains some policy corrections that we have carried out over the years. I have never said that we are perfect, rather I have said the opposite, that we are imperfect. What I do believe is that I have sufficient arguments, reasons and data to justify a positive overall assessment of the work of a Government in four years of extreme difficulty. The discussion, Mr Iglesias, about devaluation makes no sense, as I know we cannot devaluation because we are in the euro. Man, that's it! And it would be worrying if he didn't make it. [[Laughter]] I'm probably short on other things, but on that one, you're totally and absolutely certain that I know her very well. I also know very well what I don't agree with you about. that there has been no devaluation on the basis of wages, because the data we have confirm that wages are rising in line with the recovery of employment and salaries signed in collective agreements rise by 1.1% and the INE wage cost data also have an increase of 1.1%. [[Rumors]] What is happening is that this is happening in a situation where inflation in Spain has been very low for 30 quarters and the last known figure is a 0.6% fall in inflation. Therefore, it is not the same as a rise in wages of 1,1 % when inflation is less than 0,6 % than a rise of 1,1 % when inflation is above 1,1 %, because at the end of 2011, Mr. Iglesias, inflation in Spain was above 3%, namely 3,2 %. Therefore, I cannot accept that statement that you made this morning in this House, which is nothing but a repetition of others that you have done so many times over the last few years. In any case, I do want to tell you one thing. To the extent that the economic policy we are pursuing in our country allows us to continue to increase growth and job creation, wages will continue to rise to the same extent and consumption will increase to the same extent in our country. Your Honor, I'm glad I've said it on occasion. the inclusion of the reform of article 135 of the Constitution. But I want to tell you something. That was no one's imposition, that was signed by us because we wanted to. [[Rumors....................................]] We, yes, yes. You weren't, you weren't. Maybe if they'd been signing it, I don't know. [[Rumors]] We can't know because they weren't there then. But I was there and I supported it and signed it. Then I'd like to ask you a question. In view of the fact that this article 135 or another similar article was signed by 25 of the 27 countries of the European Union, the exceptions were Czech Republic and the United Kingdom. Does that mean that these 25 countries of the European Union are as bad, undemocratic and have lost as much sovereignty as we are? Ladies and gentlemen, when you enter a club, you must accept the rules, which is what happened to us when you enter the euro; if not, you stay out of the club and set the rules that you think are appropriate and appropriate. Because even if you do not want to remain in the euro, you are absolutely certain that this Article 135 is going to be there for a long time; you should know that. Just as he would've agreed to know now that we're talking about Greece. to someone who was telling all the people one thing, organized a referendum, won it and then had to do exactly the opposite of what he was telling people and what people said. [[Applauds]] And it is that one of the qualities that the good ruler must have is to be realistic and to know where he is moving; to know where he is and to know who he is dealing with. Talking is very easy, ladies and gentlemen, and when you don't have responsibility, it's incredibly easy, the easiest things I've ever seen in my life: you just get up and talk. [[Laughter]] But governing, deciding, managing public resources is much more complicated, and being in reality and acting with a bit of wisdom and common sense never remains. Mr. Churches, I don't think it makes any sense for us to have a debate on the origins of all of us here. I'm willing for you to investigate mine, and it would probably take a surprise. Now, if we looked into the 350s, including those of your group, it would probably take a lot more surprises. [[Laughter.....................................]] So, ladies and gentlemen, what do you think if after forty years of the Spanish Constitution we begin to look a bit towards the future? More than anything because that's where we're gonna be. I hope it's a long time. in the next few years. [[Applauds]] I wonder if I give face to citizens or to investors and markets. Look, in the situation in which I live I face the whole world; first, of course, before the citizens, but also before the investors, who are also citizens, and also at the markets. An indeterminate legal concept: the markets. But I'll tell you one thing. As citizens must face up to each other and as citizens' interests must be taken care of, investors must be taken care of. Because if investors invest, they will obviously do it because it's good for them, but there will also be many people who benefit; when they don't invest, it won't be so good for them. For example, if in a city such as Madrid it is for operation Chamartin, the investor probably won't do very well, but of course it will go very badly to the thousands of workers who could have a job if that investment were made. [[Applauds]] Or the cooperatives of Raimundo Fernández Villaverde and Cuatro Caminos. And the same with Operation Camp. Or if someone strives that five-star hotels cannot be built because they are very expensive, I don't think anyone is forced to go to the five-star hotel, they will harm many things, but of course it will harm many people who could work with an excellent salary in a five-star hotel and solve much of their vital problems. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there are people, Spanish nationals, who are outside of Spain, there were more years ago, but it is also true that if you take the data from the EPA of the first and second quarters you will see that Spain is the country of the European Union where there is a higher percentage of foreigners working; in which more. That is also a positive and also important fact, paradoxically and surprising enough to see the EPA. That can work. Today the world is a separate crisis, which undoubtedly influences a lot. It is more open; here many people from other countries work and many Spaniards go outside, and it doesn't have to be that necessarily bad. The ideal thing is that everyone could work wherever they wanted, but that really is not easy to get it either inside Spain or outside. Finally, I agree, Mr Iglesias, that Spain is your people and your people, but everyone, no one is excluded. Its villages are all, it is Catalonia, it is Galicia, it is Castile-La Mancha... And so are the people: you, us, even if we are a little worse, we are also part of this country, where there has to be everything. [[Laughter]] But I insist on what I said in my first speech: all the peoples and all the people. And not everyone thinks the same, fortunately. So, do not take advantage of the people, nor of the people, nor as I said before. of social sensitivity, nor of the concept of justice. Each one of us has our opinion on this issue, it is normal, not only in Spain, but it is a matter of organizing coexistence in the most reasonable way and also, today, of being able to form a government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u37	Mr Turrion Churches has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u38	Thank you. Mr. Candidate, as far as investigations are concerned, I believe that no one has been investigated in Spain as much as we have. The problem is not that; the problem is that perhaps yours has been little investigated. I wish they'd been investigated a little more. I recognize one thing: I love to discuss it with you, although sometimes I respond with refrains, and it is basically because you are not ambiguous and because we, you and I, represent two antagonistic projects. There are others who doubt, who move in the field of whether I am closer to the PP or farther away from the PP. However, when I argue with you, you see clearly two ways of understanding Spain, two ways of understanding politics, two ways of understanding many things. I was surprised by what you said about the European Union that Article 135 is very well, the renunciation of the sovereignty of the States of the Union, which has not been replaced by spaces of democratic representation in Europe, where the only space of democratic representation is the European Parliament, which at best is a colegislative House. Let you say that when every time European citizens have had to vote on Europe the result is against the European Union, when the United Kingdom has just left, it reveals that we do not really have the same notion of Europe. He read the other day to Jorge Semprún, who claimed the values of La Nueve as the democratic origin of the European Union, as that anti-fascist project that claimed social rights. [[Spanish anti-fascists who participated in the liberation of Paris]] This ord liberal Europe, this anti-rights Europe, is a Europe different from the one we want to build: a democratic Europe with social rights and sovereignty. That's why we see things so differently. You said it was very good for some Spaniards to go outside. I don't want to be a periphery of Europe. Most of the people who come to work in Spain come to do it in low value-added activities, while our best researchers go to Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States. [[Applauds]] I do not want to be a periphery of Europe, Mr Rajoy. Mr Rajoy, you said something that I find worrying. You said: Of course, it is that some call a referendum, win it, but then they can't do what the citizens have said because Germany tells them something else. Man, if you think about it, but say openly in a Parliament that you think it is right that a government cannot apply what its citizens have said by voting, it seems to me serious! That is why I tell you that we do not have the same concept of democracy. [[Applauds]] I will end with something that you have said: that not everyone in Spain thinks the same. You are right, but everyone in Spain needs public education, public health and decent housing, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u39	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u40	I reply to Mr Iglesias's last intervention because he is obliged, although he has not made great contributions either. Nor would I have done it in the third intervention. I don't know how much they've investigated you, of course I can assure you that I'm zero and I'm not going to go into details of what someone might have investigated me. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u42	As for your stories on the European Union, I am not giving a conference on the European Union now, Mr Churches. The origin is in the European Coal and Steel Community and you know that it was a fundamentally political origin. In the end, the European Union was built from economic approaches to the single market. It's a gigantic operation, the most important one that's been done I think in centuries of course in the last century because it involves the union of many nations that were separated and in non-minor wars, as you very well remember. If you compare what happened in Europe since the Treaty of Rome and what happened in Europe in the 50 years preceding the Treaty of Rome, you will have a very clear answer regarding the operation that has been launched: two world wars and then none. In addition, the European Union, which is very easy to criticize, It continues to be the largest area of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and progress in the world. It is a difficult process, it is a complex process, some decisions are questionable but in general the balance sheet That's where you always have to judge in any facet of life. In my opinion it is very positive. Of course, I continue to bet on European integration, although I believe that much remains to be done: digital union, the energy market is one of the major priorities of the future, we must also make progress in financial services and monetary union, and of course we must make progress in political union, which means a Parliament different from the one there is and also a government different from the one there is. But that, in an operation that I insist has already begun quite more than fifty years ago is certainly not something that we can put, at least in my opinion, date at this time. I will not discuss the referendum of one country or another. Moreover, I do not agree with or should, especially being the President of the Government of Spain. If I want to say one thing: that the impossible must not be promised, above all by a responsible politician. That in graffiti and so on is very good, but when we talk about governance a country's affairs promise the impossible should not be done. And no people should be subject to an opinion on matters without knowing exactly what the consequences of that opinion might be. [[Applauds]] This is an appeal to the responsibility that I believe all political leaders must make. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u43	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u44	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, guests, citizens who are seeing us from any corner of Spain following this investiture session, on 20 December the Spanish voted and were not mistaken. The Spaniards voted for changes, the Spaniards ended up with an absolute majority of the People's Party and the Spaniards also forced us to dialogue. That was December 20, and Citizens understood it. He understood that changes had to be called for but that there were no changes without dialogue and agreement. But on 26 June, gentlemen, the same thing happened. The Spanish have once again decided that the absolute majority has ended, that there must be changes, that the policies and things that have been wronged in recent years must be changed, but they have also forced us to dialogue. The old parties were given more votes than the new parties, but much less votes than the ones they drew in 2011, and the new parties were given votes, but not enough to make the changes without counting on the old politics. And that is the agreement that we have to put on the table, that of the old politics and the old parties with the new politics, that has not come to make proclamations, at least Citizens; that has not come to make epic lab, at least Citizens; that has come to change things by sweating, working and not making commentators. So, we've come here to work. In his day we sat down with the Socialist Party and the candidate proposed by the king, Mr Sánchez, and now we have sat down again with the candidate proposed by the king, Mr Rajoy, to try to implement the changes that 3.2 million Spaniards asked us for at the polls. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish ask for changes but force us to dialogue, and Citizens want to make changes but practice dialogue to get the changes. They have not wronged themselves by voting, I repeat, they are wrong those who think only of the ballot boxes; they are wrong those who block; they are wrong those who are not able to agree. The Spaniards have not been wrong, they will be wrong those who think with the electoral calculator and in their party interests or, what is worse, in their personal interests. During the last governments of Mr Zapatero and Mr Rajoy in this last term, as in everything in life, things have been done well, but things have also been done wrong, and above all there has been no sensitivity towards some of the reforms and some of the issues that the Spanish demanded. There have been cuts in education, in health, in dependence; it has not been assumed that there are many Spaniards who have fallen, who have remained in the gutter. Three million Spaniards have lost their middle class status in this last legislature. We also have the worst results in Europe's education. Mr. Rajoy said we're good in education; I disagree. We'll talk after some reforms. because we are the country of the European Union with the most failure at school. That cannot be assumed as something that goes well, it is something that is wrong and that needs to be addressed. They have also warned us from European institutions of the politicisation of our justice, the Council of Europe, which ensures the freedoms and rights of Europeans; they have warned us of the politicization of the Office of the Prosecutor. We are also the country, together with Greece, which goes back to the lecture, with the most unemployment in Europe, and some settle down and say we are doing well. No, we are not doing well with 93% of temporary contracts, with garbage contracts; we are not doing well at the head of unemployment in Europe or at the head of school failure. We are not doing well either with child poverty and, whether we like it or not, we have to assume it. In our country Unicef recognizes this and the data we have known indicate that three out of ten children suffer from relative poverty, and that needs to be addressed. The policy is to attend also.. to those children, and that is why I will speak after the agreement, because we have reached a pact against child poverty. In short, ladies and gentlemen, conformism, to say that everything is going well, is not the solution for the Spaniards to become involved in public life. He who loves his country is the one who has to be more critical of his country; he who wants his country to go better is the one who has to evaluate the policies that have been done in his country. That is why, as we want our country, as we want Spain to go better, we want to implement changes to be better, to be more competitive, because we do not settle for leading unemployment lists in Europe or lists of school failure or lists of corruption. We must put an end to Spain's main problems, the first of which is undoubtedly unemployment and precariousness, but we must also fight corruption or guarantee the rights of the middle class. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not go up to this rostrum, like others, to make commentators of reality, commentators of the summer. This summer some have been commenting on the reality, despite being already Members and not just activists, and others we have dedicated ourselves to working, we have dedicated ourselves to trying to unlock the situation, we have dedicated ourselves to putting on the table what unites us and not to looking for what divides us. Just like we tried in the spring with the Socialist Party. There is a paradox that Citizens have sat down to talk to those who do not talk, that Citizens have reached agreements with those who do not agree and we have shown that virtue is at the centre. We have shown that from the extremes the problems are not solved, we have shown that if Spain wants to have a future we must look for the common points of Spanish society. And there is another paradox, that of the 150 reforms agreed with the People's Party, there are 100 agreed with the Socialist Party in a frustrated attempt at then government pact, today of investiture. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we have 100 reforms to implement common between the left side of the House, the centre and the right, if we have common space to implement consensus policies, if there are pending issues affecting both a socialist voter and a voter from Podemos, Citizens or the PP, I ask you: why, instead of then blocking Mr. Rajoy and Iglesias' investiture and Mr. Sánchez and today Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Iglesias' investiture, why do we not get to work? Why don't we get to work? Why don't we stop talking about who and start talking about what? Why don't we start talking about the problems that the Spaniards have out there, who are hoping that policies and reforms will be implemented to improve their lives because they are entitled, because they pay us the salary, because we are their servants? Ladies and gentlemen, I am not here to encourage anyone; on the contrary, I will try to unite in this speech those who claim to be so different, I will try in this speech to make a diagnosis. I've done it. Of what goes wrong, but above all we get to work so that this goes well. This is a great country, no doubt, coincided with that diagnosis that has been made, but it is a country that in the globalized world has risks and opportunities, and if we remain silent, if we do not move, if we block 310 days already without government, if we let Spain block as other countries move forward, we will lose opportunities; opportunities for improvement, modernization, social policies, regeneration, institutional reforms. So, ladies and gentlemen, I do not refuse to agree, I am proud to agree with those who think differently. I am proud of the agreement we signed with the Socialist Party because it was an ambitious, innovative government agreement, and therefore I am not going to criticise it; on the contrary, I have said publicly and I acknowledge that it was an effort, when Mr Rajoy said not to the King, that others would try to unlock the situation. But I will also not deny the policies we have agreed for the investiture with the People's Party because they are the commonalities. We can do two things. Like when we were little, there are those who play by doing the simile. to look for the differences. Do you remember the notebooks where differences had to be sought? And you found them. But there were others who were to unite the points; I liked more to unite the points, which ended up making a drawing, a drawing that is now the common Spanish project. Are we going to join the points or are we going to look for differences, what do you want to play at? I want to play to unite the points, because differences in a democracy will always be; it's more, it's healthy, it's good that there are differences. Therefore, I have an obligation to talk about solutions, not problems. [[Applauds]] As I said before, Mr Rajoy did not appear at the investiture in his day and voted no to the agreement reached by the Socialist and Citizens' Party, and I did not like that, I said it in this rostrum and I say it again, because I think it would have been wise to try to find a broader agreement; rather than criticise, propose and join the agreement. I still think the same thing today, in this case of the Socialist Party. I believe that, of course, all parties have the right to choose the policies that we do and to take autonomous decisions, but in a second election, on the way to the third, with a challenge to the constitutional order in my land, in Catalonia, where some intend the coming year to skip the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy and democracy in short, with a challenge also of security with global terrorism, with a challenge to approve budgets that represent a new path of deficit but that must be fulfilled, which must be implemented, with all the challenges that Spain has ahead, I say one thing: I do not see myself able to look into the eyes of the Spaniards and tell them that for the policy of the executive of my party, or for my armchair, or for the sake of not knowing what charge, this country does not set itself in motion. I don't think I can do it. [[Applauds]] And yes, patriotism is not to carry flags, indeed patriotism is basically to think of your compatriots, socialist compatriots, PP compatriots, Podemos compatriots and compatriots in general in this country. So that's our obligation. If anyone believes otherwise, if someone is thought to be very important for insulting voters of another party or former presidents of this nation... These are two very different ways of looking at politics. I am not going to do it; on the contrary, I am proud that this centre party, the new political centre in Spain, is setting up a common space between conservatives, socialists and democrats and liberals, which we can reflect in a common agreement 100 proposals. I say 100 because they are the ones who unite; even if they do not know, you are more united than you think. There are 100 proposals that you and you have signed on the proposal of Citizens. [[Noting the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[Noting the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] That's why we're going to talk about them, about the contents. [[Applauds]] But before we talk about reforms logically I have less time than the candidate, I want to talk about what would be ideal, what I would like, what Citizens would like. What I would like most now and what I think is necessary for this country would be to seek an agreement, a 254-seat consensus, with a new president, with a new government, with new policies and with a very broad consensus to implement these reforms, but what is happening? Mr Rajoy and the People's Party legitimately say: no, there is no possibility of seeking a consensus president or of seeking a consensus agreement. Well, it's an option. The Socialist Party says: no, we are not going to sit at the table with the People's Party to seek a great deal of agreement. If the old policy prevents a great state agreement to govern this country for two or three years and to make the great reforms it needs, if they do not want a new government, clean of corruption, if they do not want an ambitious government, if some want everything to remain the same and others that there is only government when they govern it, then there is plan B; if plan A does not come out, which is what we would like and I think it is still what this country needs, there is plan B. Plan B is that before blocking Spain, before forcing a third election, before leaving Spain without budgets or without a defence from this House of the Constitution and our values, before all that, if I have to choose, I prefer to govern the most voted list, with demands and conditions for an investiture by the center party of this House. I think it's much better. [[Applauds]] Because normally in life, and in politics above all, you don't have to choose what you want, or what you want, or what's cool; you have to choose between the bad and the least bad, and for us it's less bad that Spain has a government even if it's not us, even if it's not our government, than that Spain is institutionally blocked. That's our way of looking at this. Some don't; some think that either they rule or everything else is bad. We don't; we know it's different. And I tell you one thing: who aspires to be president of his country and I aspire to one day. It can't be an obstacle to your country. So I am not going to be an obstacle, I pretend to be a catalyst, along with my colleagues, for this country to start. I am sure that the Spaniards also appreciate that, within the noise and decadent bipartisanism that we have seen today in this investiture session, which thinks that the dichotomy is still blue-red, red-blue, we begin to see a new space, a space of center, of consensus, of reforms, of regeneration, that can unite in a project of regrouping all the Spaniards. The change has not reached the Government, it is clear, but the change has reached Congress and I am convinced that one day it will reach the Government. [[Applauds]] And, as I was telling you, in the short time I have I'm going to try to explain some of those reforms. They are reforms of an economic, fiscal and employment nature, which is the main problem, but also of a social nature, the welfare society, unprecedented institutional reforms in the past thirty-five years and a pact for regeneration and against corruption, which must also be extended not only to the party that aspires to govern and to citizens, but to all political forces. In the economic field I will mention some new developments because they are. Budgetary stability is compromised in this agreement. That is the difference between the gurus who sell smoke and those who are able to propose social policies that can be paid for. The best social policy is the one that can be paid, the one that does not raise taxes and the one that does not divert the deficit. Therefore, the first thing we want to say here clearly is that the EUR 29 billion committed to an ambitious social policy plan does not divert the deficit, they do, and above all it is not done to tax the Spanish middle class. That is the great news for the Spaniards: that you can do social policy as it has not been done in these years, that you can do social policy but without diverting the deficit or without crushing it with taxes. to citizens. The second novelty is the work model. Some take breasts out; I understand it, it's human that you take breasts out of what you've done, but let me tell Mr. Rajoy, and not Mr. Sánchez, who hasn't presided. And Mr Zapatero, with the Spanish governments in recent years, we have broken Europe's unemployment record alongside Greece. We are unemployed champions, usually competing with Greece. And I do not settle for being the champion of unemployment in Europe because this country has many opportunities and I do not settle for having 93% in this last term of temporary contracts. The reform of the labour model is therefore essential; there must be stable contracts, the contract model, which becomes three, must be simplified, and we must also ensure the increasing protection of those rights of temporary workers, because temporary contract workers, which by the way are the majority in recent years, have to have protection of their rights and do not have them because they are waste contracts that are extinguished in an average of four months. Citizens therefore want to transform the stable and precarious contract into an indefinite contract for workers. But we also want to reform the Statute of Self-Government. After forty years the time has come to do what the People's Party and the Socialist Party have not done, an integral reform for the autonomous of Spain, for those who are workers but also entrepreneurs, for those who suffer the worst of being a worker and the worst of being an entrepreneur, for 3,5 million Spaniards who will be watching us and waiting for this legislature to be launched to see how they lower their quotas if they do not have the minimum wage, to see how they can pay VAT and IRPF when they want and how they want, to see that there can be withdrawals with the public administration when they do not pay what they owe them. In short, no further hindrances to those who rise, fall and rise again. [[Applauds]] Undoubtedly, there is also a change in the framework of entrepreneurs. The start-ups, the Spanish technology companies, all those young people who dream of staying in their country and not having to go to the United States, Israel or other countries to set up their companies have good news thanks to Citizens. We have demanded that the People's Party drastically change that policy. Instead of cutting start-ups and aid to entrepreneurs, turn 180 degrees and help those who set up companies in Spain with tax aid, with financing... In short, instead of smashing them into cuts in funding, let's help them stay in our country. But we have also committed the People's Party to something it has not done in recent years. We are Europe's country with the most cuts in innovation, development and technology; we cannot bet on the future if we cut in the future, so to vote in favour of the investment we have demanded a commitment to reach 2% of GDP by 2020 in R & D+i to look a little bit more like Europe. If we do not live up to Europe in education and innovation, we cannot compete with Europe. We have also incorporated a demand into the People's Party by drastically changing energy policy. For all those, like us, who were against the sun tax, I must tell you that this tax is repealed and that those who want to self-consumption their energy, who want to collaborate to have a cleaner planet and energies will have no reward, will have no punishment. I also say to you that in that agreement we have committed the People's Party not to raise the IRPF, that Mr Rajoy does not do what he did in 2001, that is to say to lower it if it can be in the second part of the legislature. Mr. Rajoy, let me tell you. Because this is an important commitment. We want those who have done things wrong to pay taxes, the defrauders, and those who have done things right to pay equal or lesser taxes. For that it is necessary all the effort of this government also, Mr Montoro to pursue fraud, but also to ask for at least full compliance with the Tax Regularization Act. In short, that is reversed in this case, of course within the lawfulness, that which has not been asked of the defrauders. I cannot settle for not demanding a hundred percent of what fiscal regularization meant to the Barcens, the Rats or the Pujol, so if the government is set up, that they do so before 30 November, Mr Montoro, because you know that this date is important. [[Applauds]] And if Mr Sánchez or Mr Iglesias do not allow the government to go ahead, let the government in office do everything possible, with the support of this House, to do so at least within the deadline, before 30 November. In short, do not escape those who paid very little, much less what the law says, which has made many others have to pay a lot. That is one of the demands of our agreement and I hope, Mr Rajoy, that they will comply with that pact. We also want the Sicav to control them by the Tax Agency, which will ultimately end the fraud linked to these types of entities. We want to review tax havens so that many of those countries that are not on the tax haven list today are included in them and therefore abide by the conditions and limits that the law says. We also want to reform as the People's Party has told us it intends to do and support the reform that the PP makes of corporation tax so that no one leaves Spain without paying this tax. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many thousands and thousands of companies here that pay 25% and a few that pay almost nothing. I just want all companies to pay the same, no one to escape the tax radar, no one to cheat and spend that money on social policies. [[Applauds]] We want to spend all this money and implement these changes in the economic and fiscal policy of persecuting fraud on the welfare society. We want to dedicate those 5 billion in the first year and 8,000 from the second to the people, as Mr Iglesias would say, that is to say to the citizens. I like to talk more about citizens because I consider that we are all free and equal and individuals; they are different ways of seeing politics and freedom. I believe that Spanish citizens deserve to regain the capacity they have lost with the crisis, so we want to launch a salary supplement for the first time in Spain which is, by the way, already underway in Sweden, the United Kingdom or the United States, countries which are not very suspicious in this respect. We want to put in place a complement for many families in Spain, so that 2 million families benefit from tax aid for the lowest wages, for people who enter and leave the labour market, for those who have been thrown into the water with the crisis. But we also want to reverse it, and that's what we agreed. The cuts. Yes, because for the cuts to be over, we have to work and we have to negotiate, not just commentators. We have to work, we have to negotiate and we have to ask the People's Party to do the opposite of what it has done in recent years. That is why we have sat down at the table, to reverse the cuts in dependency, to return to the indices of 2012 and to reverse the cuts in health and to recover the per capita investment prior to the crisis. [[Applauds]] We have also agreed to make a plan against child poverty. Before that example, 1,200,000 Spanish children would benefit from a plan against poverty. There are many families that are seeing us, in which the father, the mother, ultimately the family nucleus, is unemployed and has no income. And what we have already agreed with the Socialist Party in its day has also been included in the investiture agreement, a plan to tackle child poverty to help all these children. If we don't help even our children, what can we do for the rest? In short, a plan against child poverty. [[Applauds]] Another novelty that many parents who are seeing us will be sure that they will want to get started in this legislature, maternity leave, maternity leave, in short, the right of parents to have children and care for them will be increased for the first time for many years. It will go from 18 weeks to 22 weeks in the first year and definitely as citizens asked. at 26 weeks, on equal terms with father and mother, in 2018. That is a great social advance for all, regardless of ideologies, to invest in the future, which are our children. That's something we're deeply proud of. [[Applauds]] And a historic claim by Spanish society and citizens in their programme since we were in the Parliament of Catalonia and we were not even a national party: the pay-per-view. Take note, Mr. Iglesias, of the payment. [[Give it up. Mr. Iglesias Turrion: What a tough face!]] That which we saw in the manifestos on the street, that which we saw on banners, that which you have not been able to even negotiate. You're more than CNI, we're more than paying. [[applause. Mr. Iglesias Turrion utters words that are not perceived]] Instead of asking the CNI we have asked for payment, to be included in the Mortgage Law, and the People's Party has accepted it by changing that policy. [[Rumors]] Don't be nervous, Mr. Churches, if there's more. It's just that I have little time and many reforms to count on. We haven't been commentators, we've been working this summer. [[Mrs Bescansa Hernández utters words that are not perceived]] Education. National Pact for Education. Finally, instead of having the Wert Law or the PSOE Law, we will have an education law in six months of all Spaniards, and also guaranteeing education from zero to three years because it is also a right to education from zero to three years. Books have to be free for all families who can't even pay for textbooks. Let's incorporate bilingualism in all schools Together with Spanish, English, in all Spanish public and concerted schools and trilingualism in all public and concerted schools in bilingual communities. In short, modernising our education, which unfortunately leads to school failure in Europe. I'm the one who says we're doing great; I don't share it, we're doing pretty bad. I do not want to lead school failure in Europe, language ignorance or child poverty. I want our education to be a lever of change for our society, an engine of equal opportunities. [[Applauds]] I have very little time to talk about so many reforms that we have agreed. It is the great difference between the time others have to comment on reality and us to explain the reforms we have agreed. I turn briefly to institutional reforms. We are the ones to think that most judges can choose the judiciary. There are others, such as Mr. Iglesias, who think that judges, in order to be judges, have to sign the Podemos program. I don't think so, I don't want you to sign the Citizens or the Podemos program, I want to and so it's going to be from now on, changing the policy of the last few years in the judiciary. Let the judges re-choose the judges, Mr. Churches. [[Applauds]] You're more of controlling judges and TV, we're more of independents. [[Show a cover of El País newspaper]] They are two different models of freedom and society. We also want the judges of the Constitutional Court to have incompatibilities, that they cannot have political seniority, that they cannot return to an office, in short, that they serve Spain. It is also a novelty, by the way, that the Attorney General of the State can be repudiated and dismissed by this House. That's a very important novelty. [[Applauds]] And a Senate reform, finally, territorial. I've spent years and many Spaniards watching the Socialist Party and the PP say in their programs that they were going to reform the Senate, but we haven't seen it anywhere. Now Citizens, both in the agreement with the PSOE horn in the agreement with the PP, includes a reform to make the Senate a territorial chamber with territorial competences, to transfer there the debates of infrastructure, of autonomous financing, which ultimately affects our autonomous communities and their citizens, and of course to substantially reduce the number of senators, which is already time and time. In short, an institutional reform that we have not seen in recent years, which summer commentators are not able to practice if they do not work and do not negotiate. We have to negotiate, we have to work, we have to come to Congress, we have to sit down with those who do not think the same as one in order to try to start commitments and demands to those who have not, it is true, with an absolute majority and they will have to do it now with a simple majority because they depend on Parliament; they will have to do it. That is why we must negotiate, because they do not have an absolute majority now, because it is time for all the important reforms in this country to be negotiated with the opposition. We have also applied a cut of EUR 1 billion in political bubbles, public corporations, doubles...... necessary to apply to social policies; a tightening of the law of revolving doors, which I assume Mr. Iglesias will like, and also a reform, by the way, the first month of government, of the Lake, the Law of Autonomous Financing. It is fair that almost two years after this law is breached, we have a working table among the political groups to reform the Autonomous Financing Act. That is of justice and above all we must comply with what the law itself says. Finally, a package to fight corruption and for regeneration. This is certainly one of the most important demands of the People's Party, because it is true, because the majority of Spaniards do not trust a party and in this we disagree. who claims to have fought corruption. Mr. Rajoy used to tell me before, or Mr. Sánchez, if I remember correctly, or Mr. Iglesias. who is no more worthy who is more indignant with corruption but who does more things against it. I totally agree. I don't know if you've been outraged much or little, but you've done little or nothing against her, starting with your party. [[Applauds]] That is why, because the majority of Spaniards do not trust us, because the majority of Spaniards have seen that all the treasurers of the People's Party have ended up being imputed, because we know that you are imputed as a party, we want to launch a commission of inquiry into the allegedly illegal financing of the People's Party, and that is why you have had to sign it. [[Applauds]] We know that we must not block Spain, but do not trust us, we must put conditions and control those conditions of whom one does not bind. It's that simple. Some claim that, as we do not trust, Spain never has a government. I'm not a supporter. I, when I do not trust, prefer to demand, comply with and monitor what those who have to govern do; that is why they have signed an anti-corruption agreement that, by the way, we want to extend to all political parties. Instead of being commentators of the anti-corruption pacts of others, I propose that they sign it, that Podemos and the Socialist Party, which already signed it with us, solemnize it. Let us sign a pact against corruption and for regeneration among all, and there, if anyone has any idea, if anyone wants to bring an even higher list, we invite him to bring it, but the same for all because then it is not worth depending on which political party or to whom they impute him or what they impute him. It has to be the same for everyone. So we invite the rest of the parties to do so as soon as the legislature begins to join that anti-corruption pact. A change in the Electoral Law, at last. Unlocked lists, proportionality... In short, an electoral law of the twenty-first century. This Electoral Law is almost forty years old and is profoundly unfair. And get rid of the pardons. Political corrupts can no longer be pardoned. In the last parliamentary term, the People's Party pardoned, for example, the corrupt members of the Union's Treball case, and we do not agree with that policy. That is why we also forced the People's Party to sign the end of the pardons, because they had also pardoned for political corruption, and also to end the outbursts of the Government and the Legislature. In short, privileges before justice do not want them either for us. That is why we have signed it and we want everyone to go to the natural judge and have no privileges before justice. [[Applauds]] Limitation of terms of office to eight years. A novelty also in our politics and in our nation. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I could be here a lot longer because 150 reforms, as you know, are many. I've explained some of them, although I can't explain them all. I believe that this time had to be spent to explain what is going to change the lives of the Spaniards, not for the 'and you more'. I must admit that I did not like the tone and I believe that many citizens, or perhaps not, share my opinion of the "and you more"; the "and you more" of the PP to the PSOE and the PSOE to the PP. It will be because we have reached agreements with both parties, it will be because we have a common space, it will be because we do not consider them enemies but simply compatriots, it will be for that reason that we believe we must seek that common place. I believe that we must go up to this rostrum to seek solutions, to propose solutions and not to face what one has done or has stopped doing. We believe that things have not been done well and we begin to work to make them better. That is the policy that I believe Spain needs in the coming years. From the political centre we will lead a profound reform of this country. I hope to count and join forces with other constitutionalist parties. I also hope that, in the face of the challenges facing Spain, Catalonia, union, freedom, equality of all Spaniards that pact for Spain also serves us to strengthen the common Spanish project, not only to weaken it horn they claim some of the deputies who are here and some political leaders. I also ask all of you to start thinking a little bit more about the Spanish because we have already seen two blockades. A blockade of the People's Party and Podemos in the previous legislature and now a blockade of Podemos and the Socialist Party in the current legislature. How long do you think the Spaniards can wait? How much patience do you think you have? I don't think so. I don't know if the Spanish convey the same to you as to me, but they have very little patience, and with all the rights of the world. So I propose that, at this point, three hundred and ten days after calling the elections on 20D, with a minority government that will have to agree everything with the opposition, let's get going. Mr Sánchez, you and I, who have reached agreements, which we have signed together many of those proposals, which I believe we share a common space, other than, I ask you to reflect on the role that the Socialist Party can play if the People's Party governs in a minority. I say this because you and we can for the first time, if you join us, control a government that has no absolute majority, be able to legislate and make changes that you cannot make alone, we can take these 100 common reforms and carry them out. I simply, respecting the full autonomy of a party to which I respect, with which I have reached agreements and with which we also govern in some autonomous communities, ask you to value the dimension of the importance of those eighty-five seats if these members of the People's Party rule in a minority. It is very powerful of those seats that have the Socialist Party or Citizens; let us use it, not to block Spain but to get it started and to legislate together the changes that this country needs. [[Applauds]] Soon. I cannot dedicate to Mr. Iglesias all the time he has devoted to us basically because we have to explain reforms and you comment on the landscape. But let me tell you something that I think many Spaniards hurt and hurt in their day. You, from this rostrum, insulted Mr Felipe González, President of Spain for thirteen years. You have today allowed yourself the luxury of trying to puppet, practically, Mr Suarez and I would already like to have half of half of half of the courage, courage and responsibility of Mr Suarez, especially you. Mr. Iglesias, do you think that insulting the president of Spain for thirteen years, insulting the architect of the transition, which you have considered practically a puppet, is the way? I know you're more in favour of statesmen like Otegi, but I'm much more in favour of statesmen like Suárez and González. [[Applauds]] It will be very difficult to build majorities in this House, it will be very difficult to make changes without absolute majorities if we do not respect ourselves minimally, so I do not ask for agreements that one does not want to sign, I do not ask for comma, I do not ask for things that are not going to happen; what I do ask is a minimum respect for what we have been, for what we are and for what we can be. This is a great country, with its mistakes and successes, with its former presidents, with its political parties, with everything, with its people as you say, which is also ours by the way, the citizens, but if we do not respect each other minimally it will be very complicated to carry this country forward. So I propose another pact: to respect ourselves minimally to search for the common nexus, to search for the common space that unites us. I am convinced that many people who voted for Podemos would want Podemos to have defended the dation in payment, the change in the electoral law, suppressing the outbursts, but they have given up doing so. By dogmatism, by political tactics, by surprises, at last, I don't know why. In any case, I invite you to join in seeking agreements and not in seeking differences, which we will always find. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Spain has very important challenges, delicate and worrying challenges, but we are also a nation with great opportunities. I believe that this country deserves political parties, especially Members of this House, to offer a little bit of hope to our compatriots, a little bit of public service, a little bit of respect for those who do not think alike, to offer them solutions and not problems. Politicians cannot be the problem, and I think many Spaniards think so today. Politicians have to be part or solution. Therefore, I propose that we look forward, that we build the solution. I propose to the candidate to rule and do so by thinking about this House, not on the back of this House because, among other things, there will be no other. Mr Rajoy, you said whether this agreement is historic or not. I agree with you that maybe it's not the best deal in history but I tell you one thing, it's in your hands. If you meet the demands that you have made Citizens for the investiture, it can also be a great deal. If you don't do it, this can last very little anyway. So, to be in your hands, but you are also in our hands, in those of this House. I think we're gonna get along because we don't have another one left. This House and the minority government will have to get along well. You will have to learn to govern in a minority and we have to learn to make responsible opposition, which is an opposition that will have to dialogue with the government, an opposition that will have to discuss budgets, an opposition that will have to support the government in the delicate terns that this country will live in in the coming years. Count on me, Mr. Rajoy, to make a responsible opposition, count on my party to think of Spain ahead as we are already doing it. of our own party but also count on us to control, demand and ask for changes, because that is what the voters of Citizens have asked. So I make myself available and my party makes itself available to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. We make ourselves available to Spain to love ourselves and not to Spain to want to leave us. To have to look to the future and think with responsibility, with a sense of state, without maximalisms, with a practical vision but, above all, responsible for reality. I propose to all of you that just as we reached an agreement with the Socialist Party, and it was good. [[Show a document]] But they didn't let us carry it out, just as we reached an agreement with the People's Party. [[Show a document]] - That's good. Let's get this thing going. Mr Sánchez ended this sentence at the second investiture session. He told Mr Rajoy it was the plug of Spanish democracy. I think that was the phrase you said in that session, if I didn't make a mistake in reading it. I wouldn't dare say that phrase that you said to Mr Rajoy, these are your words, but in any case, I don't want a plug or two. I hope that Spain does not have a plug or two plugs, I just want the water to run, the legislature to start, that we can work. So, aside from Mr Sánchez's sentences to Mr Rajoy about whether or not it is a plug, I ask Mr Sánchez to be neither; simply to put conditions, to negotiate, to demand, to know that you have the will to reform things that I have signed with you. As you signed this with me and as we have tried to unravel the situation with Mr Rajoy, I ask you and Mr Rajoy for a reflection; the reflection on what we can agree on and what changes are needed to get this going. I just leave it there. I'm not the candidate, I know, but I don't refuse to think that everything is lost, I don't refuse to think that there will be no investiture because this is very difficult. Of course it is difficult, to be told to Suárez, to Mr González, Mr Carrillo or Mr Fraga, to all those whom Mr Iglesias despises. Tell them to tell them. Of course the transition was difficult, of course it was difficult to sign a Constitution, of course it was difficult to implement the Moncloa Pacts, but the question, ladies and gentlemen, is this: do we have any other option to make the difficult possible? Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u47	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as all Members of this House know, Citizens and the People's Party have reached an agreement entitled '150 commitments to improve Spain'. We have reached that agreement for a number of reasons. The first and most important is that in Spain we have held elections on 20 December 2015, we have repeated them on 26 June this year and we do not yet have a full government. The agreement was not easy, but the will usually broke the difficulties, and there was. I thank Mr Rivera and the members of his party who accompanied him in the negotiations for their efforts and goodwill. I think we're gonna get along well, Mr. Rivera, because we don't have another one left, but also because it's good in life to go making friends from time to time; nothing is lost. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve this objective, I will try to draw attention to some of the agreements I have with some of the statements made here this morning by Mr Rivera, and also to some nuances, which always contribute to enriching the agreement. I am absolutely convinced, and all the members of this House too, that the situation that has taken place after the elections on 26 June obliges us to engage in dialogue. Dialogue is always good, dialogue is positive, dialogue is fundamental, especially when it comes to State issues, but in this case, in addition to being good and positive, dialogue is absolutely necessary because if it is not impossible for a Government to govern in our country. Mr Rivera also said that Spanish society, in addition to forcing dialogue, is forcing change. It's true, it forces you to make changes, but it doesn't force you to change everything. In fact, the People's Party, which has been ruling for the past four years in our country, was the political force that remained in the first place, it is true that with less popular support than at the end of 2011. It is true that good and bad things have been done by all on the part of the last governments. But it is also true that I have to defend the balance sheet of my Government. And my Government's balance sheet is generally a positive balance sheet. We picked up a very difficult situation in Spain, with negative economic growth, where unemployment increased every day, all economic imbalances existed, prevented growth, prevented employment generation, Spain was threatened by a rescue in a situation of extreme complexity, and today things have changed, allowing some to make a global assessment of what our management has been. Mr Rivera also spoke about cuts. It is true that some budget items had to be reduced. But we cannot forget why or the reasons for this reduction in budget allocations. And above all, what we cannot forget is that if we had not reduced some of those budget items probably now Spain, and the Spanish as a whole, would be in a much more complex situation. In Spain, between 2008 and 2009, €70 billion in collection was lost in two years. The government deficit rose to 11%. And the most serious thing: we could not finance in the markets, neither large companies nor small ones; not even an important part of the public administrations, We had to make difficult decisions. But neither can we forget that we maintained the essentials of social policies. In Spain there is still a public pension system, in Spain there is still a free universal public health system, in Spain there is still an educational system, with its problems and difficulties, but there is still a very large package of social measures. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking to those who are not spoken to is Mr Rivera's claim that those who do not speak, let us speak. I'm willing to help you with that. I've tried, Mr. Rivera, and you know that when I wanted to run for office after the December 20 election, I received a no. When, later, you reached an agreement with the Socialist Party, I was never called upon to vote in favour of neither abstention nor to negotiate a single measure of government. You also know that after the last elections I asked again what I had asked for on December 20th, because it seemed to me that it was the best for our country: a great coalition agreement between three parties that thought the same about the fundamental issues. That willingness to talk to the Socialist Party and to talk to all those who believe in our Constitution and the European Community acquis has always maintained it, maintains it now and will continue to do so in the future. I also agree that if it is not possible to reach that programmatic understanding, which is undoubtedly what is best for Spain's interests, it is at least reasonable to demand that the Socialist Party let it govern to unlock this situation, because we cannot be this way any longer, to those who have won the elections. I also agree that one of the most important reasons for making this demand is the important and urgent challenges ahead. Here is the topic of the Spanish economy, the need to consolidate its recovery, to maintain the pace of job creation. There are our commitments to the European Union. There's the spending ceiling. There is the need to forward before 15 October those decisions that we have to implement in order to comply with our agreements after the deficit path has changed. But, above all, there is one thing that is very important: it makes no sense and it is foolish to repeat an election after the citizens were called to the polls on 20 December and again on 26 June. The best measure of democratic regeneration that can be adopted today in our country, what unites us most with the citizens, is to say: What you vote for, the fact that you are going to make a decision, is something that is respected by the Chambers and the Chambers are capable of resolving the situation that has been generated. I will make a few comments on the programme points to which Mr Rivera referred in his speech. I would like to begin, first of all, because Mr Rivera, in his speech, has rightly given importance to two matters which are vital, with unemployment. Undoubtedly, unemployment is very high in Spain. We are one of the countries of the European Union with the highest level of unemployment. It is true that it is going down and that the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 have been positive in the labor market, but it is necessary to this is one of the fundamental points that collects our agreement. continue to persevere in the policies that have been carried out, because we are in a position to reach that number of 20 million Spaniards that it would be very necessary for them to be working in our country by 2020. Creating employment is not only important in itself, it is not only basic to people, it is also important to be able to maintain the level of social policies without, as Mr Rivera said in his speech, the need to raise taxes or divert the deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, last year's expenditure on pensions has been EUR 120,906 million, more than a quarter of total Spanish expenditure. Unemployment benefits have reached EUR 24 billion, 5.3 of total Spanish public expenditure. In health we have spent 63,339 million euros, 13% of total Spanish expenditure. In education, 42,298, 9.1 of the total Spanish expenditure and 8.1 we have devoted it to other social expenditure. The interest rate on the debt represents more than 8%. 63% of Spanish expenditure is social expenditure. If we talk about the General State Budgets, this 63 reaches 70.8%, because there are items that represent an important financing package for the autonomous communities, which they then use to cater for public services. Therefore, in order to maintain a social policy such as that we have in Spain, to improve it, which is what we must aim for, an economic policy that generates economic growth and above all that generates employment is needed. When there is employment there are more people paying taxes. When there is employment there are more people who consume, there is more income tax, excise tax and VAT collection. That is why the fundamental objective of the agreement we have reached is to work to create employment in our country, which is the fundamental basis for maintaining and improving social policies. I agree with what has been said here about entrepreneurs and self-employed people. 80% of employed persons who do so in our country are self-employed or work with self-employed persons or in small and medium-sized enterprises. We have made important decisions over these four years. We have solved a problem that for all these companies created a situation of uneasiness and impossibility to generate growth, such as that of credit. We've made decisions to help them pay for Social Security. I believe that we are in a position to make further progress, and that is why one of the most important parts of the agreement we have reached is to support entrepreneurs and self-employed people. I also agree with what has been said here about the need to fight as effectively as we can against tax fraud. I would like to recall, however, that in the last four years the fight against tax fraud has produced the greatest increase in the collection of history, and I would like to congratulate those responsible for that management and also those officials who have brought it to a successful conclusion. It is true that there is still much to be done and it is also true that the agreement we have reached contains some commitments which, of course, I am prepared, in addition to being obliged, to fulfil. Ladies and gentlemen, one very important issue is that of education, to which he has also referred and given the treatment he deserves in his speech. Mr. Rivera. Education, without a doubt, is the basis of a country's future; it makes a better country; it makes a country fairer; it makes a country with more knowledge; it makes a country more prosperous, because it makes people more educated, has more knowledge to invest and more possibilities to employ. Education is, without a doubt, the basis for the future of any country that is valued. It is true that there are many things to do, but it is true that some have also been done over the past four years. I would like to place special emphasis on scholarship items, which have grown every year despite the enormous budgetary difficulties that, as you all know, we have had to face. I believe that there is also some positive data, such as early school leaving, which has already been below 20%, above 26%, a figure which is still absolutely unacceptable today, but which shows that when there is perseverance and willingness to do things right, dedication and time, things can be improved. Finally, I would also like to refer to something that we must pay particular attention to in the future, vocational training. There has been a significant increase in vocational training students in recent years. We have launched dual vocational training. It is necessary to reach the number of 100,000 students by studying dual vocational training. A clear bet is needed for digital education and for languages. Not long ago the European Commission was presenting a report that certainly revealed some of the things that are happening not only in Spain, but also in Europe, over these years. Hundreds of thousands of jobs had been left vacant in the European Union due to a lack of preparation and knowledge in the management of new technologies over the past year. This is certainly a dramatic fact, when unemployment is still the most important problem in our country and in much of the countries of the European Union. I therefore agree that education should be one of the basic priorities for the next four years. With regard to Mr Rivera's speech, I would also like to make a comment on the issues of corruption. I have already done so on the occasion of previous interventions by Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias. I have already made my position clear, but it should be remembered that, regardless of the events that have taken place over many years in our country, things have improved today because decisions have been taken. We have passed laws that are already in force that are working and that will make it much more difficult than events like those that worry us all to repeat. These include the Party Financing Act, the Criminal Code, the Transparency Act, the Political Parties Control Act, the Statute of the High Commissioner, the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, the Office of Asset Recovery and Management. We have strengthened the material and personal means and we are ready to conclude the agreements we have reached with Citizens and to consider any approach that any group in this House wants to take. In any case and in relation to this matter, I would also like to make some comment because it is appropriate to be fair and the disproportionate is not good in any facet of life. We must always bet on justice and sometimes great injustices are committed when what is intended is to punish behaviors that are then shown not to be wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been in public life for many years, many years. I've known many politicians from different parties since councillors That I have been until provincial deputies, autonomous deputies, senators, deputies, members of the government, and I have to say, and it is good that we defend this position for the sake of justice and for the sake of the future of our country. that the vast majority of those people I've known taking public responsibilities, with their successes and mistakes, did nothing but honorably and dignifiedly fulfill the public service. [[Applauds]] The fight against corruption does, but also, ladies and gentlemen, let us try to act with measure, with balance and with justice. I would not like to conclude this speech without making some final comments. Citizens and the People's Party and Mr Rivera and I are aware that many of our programmatic proposals cannot be carried out alone and others cannot and do not want to. That is why this agreement invites everyone to build for a long future and offers agreements that, if achieved, would help much to improve Spain's future. Let me mention some: a pact for the unity of Spain and the defence of the Constitution, a state pact for the regeneration and quality of democracy, a firm will on institutional issues, some of which Mr Rivera referred to in his speech to reach an understanding, an educational pact, an autonomous financing pact, the implementation of the Toledo Pact once again, a pact against gender-based violence and, of course, the maintenance of pacts as important for any country as ours as a pact in foreign, defence, counter-terrorism or European politics. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to finish this speech as I started. I thank Citizens and their President for the effort they have made. I believe that Spain today, in 2016, starts on a good basis. I think we are a great country, with many positive things, there are certainly many other things to correct, but I think we are ready to move forward. Let us not look, as I said in a previous intervention, at those things that go wrong. Let us only look at them to try to overcome them, but let us also be proud and never forget the country we have and what this country we have and its administrations can offer to all its citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u49	I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u50	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, candidate, ladies and gentlemen, in these ten minutes I will try to talk about some of the things that you have commented and some that have remained in the tinker as well. The first of these is education. You have referred to this and I must say, Mr Rajoy, that I am deeply concerned. Spain has four major challenges for the future: unemployment cannot be the country with the most unemployed people in Europe together with Greece, I have told you before; corruption, we cannot have institutions where corruption is suspected and where the Government, the Legislature, the Executive are ultimately suspected of corruption; another is the relative poverty of a part of the population that has lost purchasing power, which has fallen into the grip of the crisis; but Spain's fourth major problem is education. It has been shown that changing the Education Act every four years has made you eight legislative reforms in what goes on in democracy. It has basically led to this: European school failure champions. [[shows a graph]] Changing the Education Act every four years entails this. So do you not think it is time to reach a great education pact, as they did in Finland and other European countries, so that education policy is not the Wert law or the PSOE law or the law of what minister and becomes the law of Spain? Don't you think it's necessary that with this drop-out rate we put our batteries on? Some say that we are very heavy with education, and I must tell you that if I could and had more time it would be heavier, first as a deputy and then as a father, because we also care about those who have children. So I will put a lot of emphasis on this legislature, Mr Rajoy, if it goes ahead, on that pact for education, that we agree on an educational law, that surely it will not be the one that you like, that it will not be exactly the one that I like, that it will not be exactly the one that Mr Sánchez likes, but that it will be better than the one that changes every four years, it will have better results. In addition, modernising education, for example, with teaching English together with which is the second most widely spoken language today in the main countries of the world, I think it is an advance, also guaranteeing of course the co-official languages, that cultural wealth that we have, not to throw it out of our heads, not to impose it, but to enjoy it. I think that trilingual educational model is good. In the autonomous bilingual and bilingual communities so that the children of any Spanish, regardless of their current account, can learn Spanish, English and the co-official languages correctly. And it is also necessary to help families who cannot afford textbooks. We have already reached agreements of this nature in some autonomous communities and with this pact we will see that an agreement is reached throughout Spain. I know some people might think we need to talk more about who than what, but I'd rather talk about what. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u51	Wait a minute, Mr. Rivera. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u52	Thank you, President. Education is therefore going to be a fundamental pillar for the Spanish engine, for the Spanish economy. We want a knowledge economy linked to education. In the world in which we live today being peripheral or central does not depend on the physical location of your country, depends on whether or not you have an education and an economy of knowledge, depends on technology. [[Applauds]] It's the only thing that can explain that countries like Singapore have much better education than we do, it's the only thing that can explain that some places in the world have more investment in innovation and technology, bigger and better companies. For us, who do not have oil or raw materials, our raw material is in this case education and human resources, human capital is the future of Spain. If we put on the batteries and we are not conformists or commodores and we start to reform all that has not been done in thirty years, maybe someday we look like the countries that today have the best education systems, but to get there we have to start already. The future starts today, it doesn't start ten years from now again. On the other hand, Mr Rajoy, with regard to the corruption that you were talking about, I have already told you, I am not going to tell you anything that nobody knows, we believe it would be better for Spain to have a new government, a new president, a clean government without any suspicion of corruption. We do not like that the party that will govern Spain if this comes forward is immersed in a process of imputation for political corruption. We don't like it, neither we, nor surely your voters, I'm convinced. Now, the question is, if there is no renewal, because they have decided so in the People's Party, and if the Socialist Party does not want to sit at a table to seek consensus and a broad government, what do they want? I who criticize the alternative or plan B, which is a minority government of the People's Party, ask them what they want, what do they want, third parties? And why not fourths? No one's thinking about a third vacation, no one's thinking about a third vacation. [[Applauds]] It is time to get to work not with what each of us wants, but with what we can, with what there is, with what we have, and that is what we have, and today there is no alternative, unfortunately there is no alternative that can put a new government with new people, clean of corruption, but that we have to put a corset in this case, conditions of democratic regeneration and fight against corruption, and that is the way we have found, we believe that is much better than blocking Spain. Therefore, that is the logic and in that we disagree deeply, we will not be fooled. That is why we asked him to sign six anti-corruption conditions before we sat down to negotiate, because we wanted to see if the People's Party changed its dynamics and understood that Spain's second problem, corruption, is also a problem of the Government of Spain. It is not simply a matter of making laws, it is a matter of having the confidence of the citizens, and that is the problem that this Government has had these years; it is not a problem of legislating, it is a problem, as I said before, of having imputed treasurers, of being prosecuted, of having the seat as a guarantee and bail of a corruption process, that is the problem. And that unfortunately cannot be solved because there is no will for amendment, but a government controlled by the opposition can be set up. On the other hand, Mr Rajoy, you said, and let me give you a hint, that no one contacted you when you said no to the King and we agreed Mr Sánchez and I, that no one contacted you to try to negotiate or join the agreement. That's not true, Mr. Rajoy. I sent you a letter. Mr Girauta and Mr Antonio Hernando sent a letter to Don Rafael Hernando and we proposed to join a negotiating table to reach a great agreement between three parties, but there was a problem, and it is that you were not the candidate for the investiture. Don't deny it, it's human and it's legitimate, but don't say we didn't call him because we were heavy, huh!We call, we send letters, we summon them... [[Applauds]] Therefore, it seems to me human and legitimate to say: no, I did not want to join because I was not the candidate. Well, that's human, I think it's not good for Spain because we put people ahead of governments and reforms, but in any case it's human and understandable even if it doesn't share it. Finally, there is one issue that has been little discussed, but I think that we should highlight here the agreement and also the policy that we want to pursue, which is international policy. In international politics logically each party has its position, but I think it has to have a state position. Spain must have a role in the world other than the conservative government, the center party or the Socialist Party, whether it is Spain, and I think we must put the pillars in order to do so, so that we do not throw the plates at our heads on such a fundamental issue. That is why I think it is important that it is reflected at the request of the citizens in the agreement to fulfil the commitments to the war refugees, the commitments to which we have finally committed ourselves to Europe. International policy, NATO, is also valued in order to continue to participate and strengthen links with NATO's organization and the defence and security of our country. International terrorism is not combated locally, it is combated internationally. I used to tell Mr. Iglesias that we will propose a pact against corruption; I will use that visit to see if I can get them to sign the pact against terrorism too, it would be good because the policy against terrorism must not depend on one political party or another, but must be state-owned. [[Applauds]] So I wish we could stop dodging the national anti-terrorist pact and join us, don't come as an observer. You're not blue helmets, you're Members, you come to participate in the fight against terrorism and not to see it from afar. Finally, politics in Latin America. There is an opportunity, what is happening in Colombia, 52 years later that peace has been signed, there is a referendum. I believe that Spain cannot look elsewhere, I believe that Spain has to commit itself to ensuring that this is definitive and to do the role that the international community wants to appoint us to do. As in Venezuela, by the way, where tomorrow, day 1, there is a great march of millions of people to demand that Venezuela's Constitution be complied with and that they be allowed to call a revocation. [[Applauds]] Just as we see with concern that Cuba does not have democracy. Just as we contemplate all the Latin American compatriots who are ultimately also part of our common culture. In short, Mr Rajoy, as you have said, I have not come to politics to make friends. I have no problem in having them, I also tell you, we have not come to make friends, but to work, if there is friendship, better, as you have said, but above all we have come to work because I am convinced that those who gave their hand in the Constitution, in the Pacts of the Moncloa, in the Transition, I do not know whether they were friends or not, but they were statesmen, they were responsible people. Therefore, gentlemen, we are not paid for being friends or commentators, we are paid for working for the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u53	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to take a turn to respond briefly to Mr Rivera's second speech this morning at the Congress of Deputies. It has set as great objectives and priorities for the next four years the fight against unemployment, as I pointed out in my previous speech, the basis for any social policy that is valued. Secondly, it has made education one of the main priorities for the next few years in our country. I have certainly said that in my previous speech, it is an extremely important issue. Also the fight against poverty, which, as in the case of education, is very directly related to the capacity we have in Spain to generate economic growth and also jobs. And finally, he has made a reference to corruption and some aspects of foreign policy. In the investiture speech I gave yesterday, I expressed my willingness as President of the Government to open a dialogue with all political forces to achieve a national pact on education, an agreement that I also said could be extended, and should, at all levels, from primary education to the university itself; a pact that gives the education system the necessary stability to which Mr Rivera referred in his speech, and that focuses fundamentally, without any prejudice, on something that I believe we can all agree on, the acquisition of competences and the improvement of results. I regret that there have been many changes in educational laws over the last few years, but I think it is fair to remember that only two educational models have been applied here in Spain, that of Villar Palasí, a few years ago, and the model of the Socialist Party, because while it is true that the People's Party passed an education law in the first stage of our political force, it is also true that when the Socialist Party replaced us in the Government, in two days, by introducing a decree-law in this House, it decided to liquidate that bill that we had submitted and that had not yet entered into force. Thus, there have been basically two laws in force over the years, a very little after the adoption of the Constitution, but it has been throughout the whole stage of the Union of Democratic Center, and other laws that were passed by the Socialist Party. In any case, without any prejudice, I believe that the main objective of education is to increase people's knowledge, increase their skills and guarantee the freedom of parents to choose what they want for their children. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, I would also like to comment on corruption, pacts and non-agreements. I agree with you that we have to fight corruption, I agree absolutely, and we, that we have been a political force that we have had our problems, like all those who ruled those who did not govern it had it certainly more complex, I think we have been able to make some decisions and do it in the right direction. I am therefore convinced that we must fight with all the force we can against corruption. I have supported some of the proposals that you have put before us for negotiation; I have stated here, and I reiterate, my willingness to fulfil those commitments, but I again insist that we must be fair and measured in trials; we must not confuse it: not all people are the same and not all the cases that appear in the media are the same. Finally, Mr Rivera, in favour of democratic regeneration, yes; but the most important thing for democracy to be inextricably linked to citizens is to respect their will, and to respect their will is to realize what citizens have voted over any other considerations. Because, in the end, when people put a ballot paper in a ballot box what happens in a country is the sum of the value judgments of millions and millions of people, and the only way to know what is the most correct judgment and what are the nuances that have all those value judgments is to know the will of the majority. As long as no other system is discovered, democracy is, as we have heard so many times, the least bad of them all. [[Applauds]] I want to make two last comments, or three, or even four: I believe that foreign policy must be the product of a great national agreement always, in Spain and in any other country. One of the worst things that can happen to a country is to have discrepancies in foreign or defence policy, and let us no longer say in the fight against terrorism. So I don't think we actually have any, we haven't had any, except very specific cases. great difficulties throughout our history. I believe that the fight against terrorism, which unfortunately we know something about in our country because of the circumstances that you all know, has also unfortunately become one of the great priorities not only of our country but, as we have seen recently and recently, of all the countries in our environment. It is essential there to be able to fulfil our commitments, to be generous, to act in defense of the general interest and not to try to generate discrepancies where there is no need for them. You're talking about Colombia. We are committed to President Santos' approach. I had the opportunity to speak with him on Monday to congratulate him on the agreement; he invited us to sign it on 26 September and it is his intention to hold a popular consultation on 2 October. I hope he's doing well because he's given him a lot of determination and courage. I share with you, too, that we have lived through all these last months, what is happening in Venezuela, and I just want to add on this issue that I want for Venezuelans exactly what I want for Spanish people: democracy, freedom, human rights and economic and social progress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u55	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u56	I speak briefly from the seat. Candidate and President-in-Office, as far as international policy is concerned, I am pleased to know that we are going to support this delicate but necessary process for Colombia. I am also glad to have introduced and that an international policy debate can be introduced in an investiture debate, because to date it had disappeared many times from the Spanish political map, when it is absolutely necessary, like the European policy or the refugee policy, which it has also introduced in that reply. With regard to corruption, Mr Rajoy, you have no doubt that it is about being fair and that the vast majority of Spaniards trust you, the government if it finally comes out, and the legislature, in all, ultimately, the public authorities, so that is our commitment. The problem is that when you ask the Spaniards if they trust politicians, 70% say they don't. And according to the CIS, which you mentioned earlier, Spain's second problem is ahead of other very important issues as well, such as health and other issues. It's corruption. And that is why, not by whim, we believe that we must put an end to that scourge that actually affects everyone, but not everyone has fought it in the same way, especially in their own ranks. That is what we want and, therefore, we are not going to give it any more laps, that the investiture pact will be fulfilled. We will control it, we will be in that commission of follow-up of the investiture pact, we will extend the anti-corruption pact to the rest of the parties so that for the first time in Spain, after forty years, hopefully it was not necessary, but it is, we will have a national pact against corruption and for regeneration, and that in four years, two, five or whatever, we can say that the second problem of the Spaniards is no longer corruption. On the subject of the majority, Mr Rajoy, I will not explain to you or tell you how the parliamentary majority works. But look at what you have said: the majority must be respected. You know I've come to an agreement with you and I don't want to be a devil's lawyer, but you don't have the majority today. He's missing a majority because, if not, there would be an investiture. I would ask you, since you are President of the Government, that instead of playing with words, you do pedagogy and explain to the Spaniards that in democracy the majority governs and that if you do not have a majority, you have to seduce, you have to negotiate to have it, you have to reach agreements with the rest of the opposition. We're not in a car race to see who's left first, we're in a parliamentary system, where we have to have a majority to get the investiture. That is why you will certainly not get invested President today, nor in this case on Friday. That's why I invite you to help unlock this situation, here we are. try to negotiate, convince and offer divestitures also to get that majority. You're the one who should lead him. I said yesterday, and I repeat today, that I think they have to be ambitious in the search for that majority, they have to know that in order to convince the Socialist Party, Podemos or any other group they have to give in and change things that have been done in recent years, and for that they have to pick up the phone and sit down at a table. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon speaks words that are not perceived]] I know that at least sitting at a table did it. That's why I'm saying, Mr. Sanchez, it would be good if we didn't play good and bad for anyone. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón makes gestures of assent]] You have said it before and you are right: neither you are the bad guys for voting that neither Rajoy nor Rajoy was the bad guys for voting for you that no, but it is bad for Spain that you always vote that no. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u57	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. As you very well acknowledged in your speech, I am well aware of the functioning of the parliamentary system, which is an absolute majority, a relative majority and also what it means to win an election. It is clear that if there is no absolute majority in the first call, no one can be elected, and no one can be elected in the second call if he has no more votes in favour than against. What I wanted to say in this debate is that, in an exceptional situation like the one we are currently living in, the most reasonable thing is that this majority should be built on the basis of the party that has had the most votes and that has 52 seats more than the second. That seems reasonable to me. From there I have to look for myself or the absolute majority or more yeses than noes. If you can help me, I'd be delighted, but believe me, it's not easy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] I reiterate the need for silence to listen to the speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are going to leave this sitting room, please do so in silence. Mr Tardà, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Go ahead, Mr Rajoy, Mr Rivera and the judges of the Constitutional Court, who we are not afraid of. Not the terrorists for. The people of Catalonia are a peaceful, civic, defenceless people, which is why, because they are deeply democratic, we are not afraid of their threats. Having said that, Mr Rajoy, you are here today as a candidate because the Socialist Party allows you to do so, benefiting from the fears of Mr Sánchez and the fratricidal war that it maintains with Podemos, because it is clear that if the Spanish Socialist Workers Party had committed itself to authorizing a referendum on Scotland in order and effect that the citizens of Catalonia could freely decide our future, today you would not be here as a candidate because the President would already be Mr Pedro Sánchez for months and, now, we would have repealed the most reactionary laws of his Government, those that curtailed democratic freedoms and dynamite the welfare state; moreover, economic, social and fiscal policies of a social-democratic nature would already be implemented. In fact, we would have repeated what the left have already done in 2004. Then we buried aznarism politically and now politically we would have buried you and your monarch, Mr Rivera. [[Let's give it up.]] Unfortunately, however, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has assimilated, has internalized that maximum pronounced in this Chamber some decades ago by José Calvo Sotelo They will remember: Spain before red that breaks, which has become easily in Spain before blue that breaks, because the Socialist Party prefers nothing to change rather than recognize the right to decide of the different nations that currently make up the Spanish state. And if not, compare what happened in Britain to what happened here. In 2011 the Scottish National Party reached 44% of the vote. What happened in Britain? London and Edinburgh agreed to hold a referendum. And here in 2015 Junts pel Yes and the CUP got an absolute majority. What has been the response of the Spanish Administration? Starting with the head of state who had neither manners nor education nor the dignity to receive the president of our Parliament, Carme Forcadell, on the eighteen occasions that we in this Parliament have requested permission to hold a referendum, in all of them, the People's Party and the Socialist Party have given us a non-tajante answer. You know, Mr Rajoy, that this resigned, right-wing, immobile and nationalist Spain in Catalonia has failed, and I refer to the elections on 26 June. People's Party, Citizens and PSOE: 18 out of 47 deputies, 0 senators of 16; the rest of the political forces, all in favour of the referendum: 29 out of 47 deputies and 16 senators of 16. [[Applauds]] Then they have to assume that a majority of Catalans no longer identify with their Spain, and I refer myself to the Centre for the Study of Catalonia: 47% of Catalans versus 42% already claim independence. In addition, they have to assume that in the Parliament of Catalonia there is already an independent parliamentary majority, which is why Catalonia and the Kingdom of Spain are separated in a process as democratic as it is unstoppable. Because we don't resign ourselves to a hopeless future, backwards. The process born in the ballot box on 27 September 2015, due to its interference in denying us the authorization to hold the referendum, will culminate in a unilateral referendum of independence or a referendum of the new constitutional text of the new State. And we will because we have two essential objectives that make sense of independence. Firstly, to socialise wealth in order to ensure that all the citizens of Catalonia, apart from their origin, apart from their surname, apart from their social status, have a dignified life guaranteed and this is not possible if wealth is not distributed very differently. In short, national wealth and public resources serve people rather than the other way around. The second objective is to build participatory, direct, modern democracy for the twenty-first century where corruption does not exist and which is not subject to financial powers. Mr Rajoy, this is what we call a republic. [[Applauds]] That is, quite the opposite of Spain in bankruptcy that you intend to endorse us, Spain of the most of the same, more precariousness, more youth unemployment, more cuts, more genuflexion to the oligarchic powers, more economic corruption and more operations Catalonia to criminalize independence and sabotage the self-determinationist majority that already exists in Catalonia. Be aware, then, that neither you nor the oligarchy you serve can offer us a future of progress, on the contrary. You believed, as did the Socialist Party. To which one day we will hardly be able to forgive the express reform of the Constitution in order and effect to make pre-eminent the payment of the debt that reducing the labor costs, that reducing the social expenditure, that charging the pensions, that depredating the welfare state and with a huge internal devaluation the Spanish economy would be sufficiently competitive for the free market to get us out of the crisis. And this is false, this is a great falsehood. Because you have only managed to shield, expand and chronize pain, poverty and social exclusion, and also to bring about an accelerated social dualization. In short, the rich increasingly rich and the popular classes competing with each other to see who has the fortune to reach the status of precarious worker. That is why your speech is a deception; there is no recovery unless you understand by recovery that the increase in gross domestic product has to lead in a couple, inescapably, to the increase in the number of families living on the poverty line; unless you understand by recovery that the decrease in unemployment has to lead to the decrease in the labour force, and unless you understand by recovery to conform with 20% unemployment until 2026, which is what the International Labour Organization marks for the Spanish State, and 35% unemployment in the age group 16-30 years. Allow me a demolishing data, a catastrophic data that illustrates the magnitude of the tragedy to which the right has aspired. In 2015, 419,000 births occurred in the Spanish State, compared to 422,000 deaths, more death than life. This had not happened since the civil war. With your recovery, Mr Rajoy, the young people cannot, will not be able to create new families, then we cannot accept to be governed by you, by those who led us to this desolation, nor by the oligopolies to which you are linked, nor by the caste of high officials and judges with a party card, true factual power that has even replaced the Army as factual power, those to which the journalist Enric Juliana quite certainly calls the Aranzadi Brigade. Nor can we accept being ruled by the political parties of the rotating gates. Even though you've surpassed the investiture - What can happen? - I don't know. the economic and social crisis will continue because it is due to structural causes that you are not prepared to address. Moreover, if you exceed the investiture you will prove that your project and ours are antagonistic and, as said, we will not resign. Independence is not only a right emanating from our historical status as a nation, independence is not only the expression of a democratic will, it is also a necessity, it is an urgency, because our future as a society is at stake. In addition, we are convinced that only an independent Catalonia offers a future to our young people, because Catalonia has a productive and touristic industrial structure of first order, because Catalonia is a country of small and medium-sized enterprises, with a more distributed property without latifundistas or large oligopolies and, above all, because in Catalonia all Catalanism has always shared a fundamental idea: there is no social justice without a productive basis, in the same way that there is no sustainable growth without social justice. Instead, you are the burden that prevents us from moving forward and reaching a scenario of prosperity and equality. Because you are slaves of a disinterest, when not of a manifest will to mistreat Catalan citizens who, moreover, do not produce any kind of blush. I refer to the criminal, I mean criminal, put quotes if they want service offered by ADIF and Renfe in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] And because they are unable to recognize a fiscal outpouring that prevents us from financing education, research and infrastructure • Mediterranean Corridor • Mediterranean Corridor • Mediterranean which requires an industrial society for its maintenance and competitiveness. In addition, you are accomplices to a systemic corruption that corrodes the body of democracy, which reaches from the Royal House to all public administrations. The local, the autonomous, the central, passing through a part of the business class and all the political parties that have occupied power in the last decades. And you are the paradigm of what is said, the People's Party imputed with cases opened for corruption everywhere. In fact, you, in an advanced and mature democratic society, not this low-cost Spanish democracy, in 2013 you should have resigned when the Barcenas case was known. Mr Rajoy, there is still another kind of corruption, even worse corruption, that they do not fight, but feed: I mean the corruption of the truth. Since the falsification of the truth with the unacceptable behaviour of the Aznar Government - Of which you were a minister. in relation to the war in Iraq which has already been demonstrated in Britain following the publication of the Chilcot report and will be demonstrated here when the commission of inquiry demanded by Esquerra is created to clarify Mr Aznar's responsibilities regarding the criminal invasion of Iraq. until the most recent: the well-known recordings of the meetings of the Minister of the Interior with the head of the Anti-Fraud Office to manufacture infamies related to independence leaders, Xavier Trias and Oriol Junqueras, or even to boast of having destroyed Catalan public health. In fact, it is the same technique that they have already used to defame Podemos on account of their funding. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a corruption of such magnitude that it acts as a real weapon of mass destruction of trust between the rulers and the governed. It is a corruption that involves such degradation of democratic values that leads me to evoke the verses of Martin Niemöller, you will remember, that Protestant pastor who faced the Nazis, who was imprisoned and who was later universalized by Bertolt Brecht. Says Niemöller: When they came to look for the communists, / I kept quiet, / because I was not a communist. /... When they came to take the Jews, / I did not protest, / because he was not Jewish. / et cetera, et cetera. Well, in view of the actions of his ministers, all this can be updated: When they slandered the independenceists, I shut up because I was not an independenceist. When they defamed Podemos' finances, I didn't protest because he wasn't Podemos's. When they chased unionists and social movements, I didn't say anything because I wasn't. And finally, when they smashed my reputation, there was no one else who could protest. [[Applauds]] And we know, Mr Rajoy, that this formula of manipulation of the state apparatus and the use of public resources to machine against the Catalan sovereignist process is part of your strategy, even at the expense of violating citizenship rights. And you are so obsessed, so obsessed!, that you are not only able to understand that you are responsible for the situation we are in. You are responsible today for Catalonia being governed by a statute that is not the one that approved Catalan citizenship in referendum. All this thanks to a Constitutional Court corrupted in its functions with a sentence, true coup d'état to say the professor Pérez Royo. And since that day the Constitution in Catalonia is dead, because it does not have the consent of the citizens, and without consent there is no rule of law, what there is is imposition and its derivative: judicial violence. And you irreformable, erring, anchored in the past, following the path of the founder of your party: Manuel Fraga Iribarne. The same one he wrote in 1967 is worth remembering for the young people to know: Catalonia was occupied by Philip IV; it was occupied by Philip V, who defeated it; it was bombed by General Espartero, who was a revolutionary general; and we occupied it in 1939; and we are willing to occupy it as many times as necessary. [[Applauds]] That said: the same path, the same path: before the cannons, now the Constitutional Court. [[Rumors]] This is the mentality that leads you to make many mistakes with regard to Catalonia one after another. First by collecting signatures against the Statue, in 2012 rejecting the fiscal pact, in the past legislatures, denying the referendum and criminalizing the results of 27 September. And now it's already installed on the scene of repression. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of your refusal to allow a referendum, in the face of the statement that you will never allow it, in the face of growing Catalanophobia, when I do not hate, towards the national aspirations of Catalonia and the whole of our country and, above all, towards our language, in view of the prospect that it will take many years before there is an absolute majority in the Courts of the Kingdom of Spain in favour of the right to decide and in view of the finding that, today, Borbonic Spain is irreformable, the independent parliamentary majority will continue with its road map towards independence, as approved last 27 June in the Parliament of Catalonia. Nevertheless, we will insist on a message addressed to the Spanish citizens, which we will repeat a thousand and one times. We want the transition to be carried out from friendship, negotiation and fraternal relationship to lay the foundations for fruitful collaboration as neighbouring countries and friends. That is why the demagogy of accusing us of wanting to establish borders is not going to work for them. We do not want to establish any borders, we want to continue to be part of the European Union, without any borders, and less with Spain. They do not lie, because they lie when they say that if we are not part of Spain, they will expel us from the European Union. That is not true, and it is not, first of all, because the Catalans are already European citizens, because the European Union was born to aggregate, unite and metabolize the pasts of disunity and inherited national conflicts, and will advance, despite the crisis of the Brexit, and because the European leaders will not opt for PP brand reductionist readings. See if not how, diligently, Mrs Merkel received the Prime Minister of Scotland. What is true is that you will try to scare us, punish us, make integration difficult; by the way, as uselessly as your actions regarding foreign investment in Catalonia have proved futile. Despite having a state against it, foreign investment in Catalonia has grown in recent months as it never did. It is simply stupid, Mr Rajoy, to believe that the logistical studies that investors commission prior to the execution of the investment do not cover all possible political scenarios in Catalonia in the coming years, including the scenario of independence. So, possibly, if your action even continues, it can turn out to be counterproductive for you, because if you intend to expel us to the European Union we will remind you that the debt is in the name of the Spanish State and that you will therefore pay it without the Catalonian competition. [[Applauds]] But we do not want to go this far, nor do we want any other relationship with the different Iberian peoples and nations, other than fraternity, collaboration and solidarity. Let's see if they find out about this once and for all: we have nothing against Spain and less against the Spaniards. Or do you forget the family origins of blood, the Spanish origins of hundreds of thousands of Catalans? What we want is to govern ourselves, and this is what we will do. And in the face of this will to govern ourselves, you continue with the mantra of denying that you are nationalists. They deny it, but they have sacralized the borders and intend to keep them above the democratic will of the territories that make up the State. They deny that they are nationalists, but feel comfortable in the twenty-first century with a Constitution that affirms that national unity must be maintained by the army. They deny being nationalists, but they are unable to accept something historically unquestionable. There are only two ways of resolving national conflicts: the path of countries of democratic tradition and the path of countries of authoritarian tradition. You have already chosen; you have chosen the authoritarian path denying that Catalonia is a nation, that is, the typical denial of authoritarian countries. If you are so convinced that the people of Catalonia do not want independence, why have you refused to ask them? Why are they afraid to allow a referendum? What is the problem of giving a voice to citizens? [[Applauds]] The answer is clear: you do not want a democratic solution. You, in your mental world, reject the democratic path, historically synonymous with progress. Because progress has followed another path since 1905, when the Norwegian Parliament unilaterally proclaimed independence, and thanks to the Swedish Social Democratic Party attention, Mr Sánchez, thanks to the Swedish Social Democratic Party, the party that would lead Olof Palme years later. a referendum was possible, and silenced the Swedish political forces and their Crown, who had opted for military repression. Well, from the solution of the Swedish socialists to the Scottish solution, a hundred years of democratic paths, a century of progress in the democratic resolution of national conflicts. On the other hand, you are anchored in Sagasta's nineteenth-century mentality, the one he considered to be, by the way, nineteen processes of independence later than the Courts of Cadiz, in article 1, approved that the Spanish nation is the meeting of all the Spaniards of both hemispheres. and still defended that Cuba was sacred national territory. And you are anchored in Sagasta; and not only in Sagasta, also in the procedures used by States of authoritarian tradition such as, for example, Turkey with regard to the Kurdish people. Mr. Rajoy, I ask you what I asked Mr. Sánchez here, from the rostrum, when he submitted the candidacy: Are you prepared for an independent tribunal, such as the International Tribunal of The Hague, to rule whether Catalonia has the right to self-determination or not? Because according to the decree of New Plant, by which Castile annexed Catalonia for the right of conquest, this is relevant and questionable. [[Rumors]] Mr Rajoy and Mr Rivera, although your political world combines with verbs threatening, lying, besieging and criminalizing, you know that the Government of Catalonia will fulfil its commitment to citizenship. You know that the parliamentary majority Junts pel Si-CUP will remain faithful to the democratic mandate and will pass the disconnection laws. And even if your argumental artillery is nothing other than fines, charges, disqualifications, article 155 of the Constitution and criminal proceedings for disobedience, open and coming, which you know lead to jail and the existence again in the Spanish State of Catalan political prisoners, not tenim por, not tenim por. [[Applauds]] Moreover, make it clear that the legitimate representatives of the people of Catalonia, led by the very honorable Carles Puigdemont, will responsibly assume all the consequences of their actions. And if you persist in the will to pursue or nullify the Catalan national institutions, the majority of the Catalan people will not surrender and will be able to find the formulas of disobedience and protest in the exercise of peaceful, civic and Gandhian resistance. I conclude, Madam President, with thanks, a statement and a compromise. We wish to express our gratitude to the thousands and thousands of Spanish progressive, leftist and republican citizens who understand and share our aspirations, aware that the Republic of Catalonia can become an opportunity to open a constituent process that allows us to give the voice to the citizenry and makes possible, perhaps and hopefully, the proclamation of the Third Spanish Republic. [[Applauds]] A thank you to the friendly parties, United Left and Podemos, for their defense of the right to decide from Catalans. And a new thank you to the citizens of the various nations of the present Spanish State and to the nationalist and independenceist forces that share our longings for the Catalan track to contribute to making its goal of national fullness more effective. Allow me also a solemn affirmation, as required by this session and this scenario where, in the coming months, decisions will surely be taken that are transcendental to the future of my country. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia will be what the will of its citizens wishes and manifests itself. In the democratic world and in the civilized world where everything begins and everything ends in democracy, this is simply unbeatable. Finally, a commitment full of emotion directed to our Valencian and Balearic brothers. [[He ends his speech in Catalan, whose text he gives to the "Diario de Sesiones" says the following: Catalans and Catalans of the Republic of Catalonia will not feel fully free nationally until the Valencia Country and the Islands have freely exercised the right to decide their future, a future we wish to share.]] Thank you, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u61	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u62	Not many dates ago, Mr Tardà, you had the kindness, in the company of your colleague Mr Rufián, to attend to my request and therefore meet with me. The essence of your message I think I've got it right. it was that you wanted a referendum in Catalonia to be authorized for Scotland within a year and that your intention was to proclaim the Republic of Catalonia. More or less something similar to what you transmitted to the House today in your speech. You will understand that I am not very optimistic about the meaning of your group's vote, which is what I am coming here today in this session. I am absolutely convinced that you will not distinguish me from your decision on the matter. Yesterday I dedicated a good part of my speech to make things clear about what is happening at this time in Catalonia and today, after listening to you, I will repeat some of those considerations and add some elements that I hope will be useful and of interest to you. Your Honor, a referendum on the independence of Catalonia cannot be held because the decisions affecting the whole of Spain are taken by all Spaniards. It cannot be celebrated in Catalonia, Galicia, Andalusia, the Canary Islands or anywhere in Spain. That's what I told you yesterday, and that's what it's called, and I reminded you of it yesterday, too, but it's the same. national sovereignty. And the decision on national unity is not for the Government of Catalonia, nor for the Government I chair, nor for the Congress of Deputies, no matter how much it represents national sovereignty, nor for the Senate. The decision on this matter is unique and exclusive to the Spanish people as a whole, who have the right to decide on their country, the right of which you want to deprive by procedures, moreover, nothing democratic. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we adopted the Spanish Constitution in this House many years ago, none of what we are here were witnesses, but then logically we were able to inform ourselves, with some illustrious exception. it was agreed that all of it, as on the other hand it was common sense, could be reformed, and in fact, this Constitution has already been reformed twice. One such reform, that of article 135 of the Constitution, has been discussed here this morning. There is one part of the Spanish Constitution that can be reformed by agreement of this House and the Senate, but there is another part of the Spanish Constitution that cannot be reformed if it is not for the whole Spanish people. That is why there are reforms that do not require a referendum, and that is why there are reforms that cannot be made without a referendum and the participation of the Spanish people as a whole. And that is what our House has agreed, that is what the whole of the Spanish people have agreed, which you have completely without care because it gave the feeling, hearing your speech, that for you there is no more democracy than that which interests you and which suits you, and that everything, whether democratic or not, that goes against your will is absolutely irrelevant. Your Honor, this is a crucial issue in the foundations and essence of a country, and it is a matter of legality. It's funny that some people say sometimes: no, no, it's that this is not a matter of legality. But are we going to say in the 21st century, in an advanced democracy such as Spain, that legality does not matter? And if it doesn't matter, why do we replace legality? By your will, Mr. Tardà? For mine? For the three or four that are on the street right now? Tell me why we're going to replace legality. If the law is not to be enforced, can every citizen do what he or she considers appropriate and appropriate? No one can hold you accountable? The courts, what are they for? What do you want, that when you break the law, you don't act? And when it's not done by the rest of the citizens? Because, logically, if you, who are a deputy and a representative of national sovereignty, announce here that the law brings you without care, the rest of the citizens, who have less obligations than yours, could think exactly the same, and then what kind of country would we be building? What century in history would we go to, Mr. Tardà? That's what you have to explain here. What you intend cannot be done. There is only one way to do this: the will of the Spanish people. But that's what happens in Spain and it happens anywhere in the world. It is that the right of self-determination should be read what the United Nations says about this matter. It existed in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Today no longer, see how well they carried out the right of self-determination, in the former Yugoslavia I'm not doing it anymore. Today it exists in two countries: Ethiopia I don't know if it's the model you like and, with great restrictions, in Canada. In the rest of the countries of the world that have a written Constitution, sovereignty lies in the whole people and no part of that country can be separated from it without the consent of all, and it would be good, please, for you to know at once. [[Applauds]] Mr Tardà, that's the way it is, that's democracy. Democracy is not what you say, democracy is what most of the Spanish people say. And in this House, even if we wanted to, we could not change the state of affairs. We would have to go to a national referendum to see if the Spanish people, voluntarily, would want to renounce the sovereignty of the Spanish people and would want to renounce their right to decide what their country is. It is a problem of legality, yes, and a problem of the rights of all Spaniards. You, Mr Tardà, have the right to comment on Santiago de Compostela just as I, who was born in Santiago de Compostela, have exactly the same right, and that is national sovereignty. Your Honor, after listening to you here today, I have to say that I have to make efforts to maintain calm and calm, because you have drawn a truly remarkable model of society. You have begun your intervention by saying: We are not afraid of them. I had respect for you at the beginning of your speech, but now I'm wondering if I'm going to move to that second word that you have spoken. What concept of democracy do you have, Mr Tardà? What do you think of the courts? You don't care what the courts say? Doesn't the rule of law exist for you? Have you never heard of the difference between the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary? [[Rumors]] No, I don't think so, they've never heard of it. You don't respect what the courts say? And the rest of the citizens have to respect it or not? What would you recommend? What are we going to respect from now on? The decisions that you don't like, if you think, we don't respect. Hey, and if there are other gentlemen who don't like other decisions, do they have an obligation to respect them? Are you better off, Mr. Tardà? Because that is the question that can be asked after the speech that you have had here today. You said: they came to claim the tax pact and then a referendum and they gave us nothing and, therefore, we will now do what we think is right and right. Hey, that's a good system to walk one for life. Indeed, they came here to demand the fiscal pact; it is true, Mr Mas came here to demand the fiscal pact, not to negotiate. I remember I even said, hey, if there's ten things on the table, don't beat me 10-0, let me tell you something, please. I then spoke to the secretary general of the Socialist Party and spoke to my party. I mean, you demand a tax pact, everyone else disagrees and we have to say yes, and if not, you do what you think is right and right. Hey, you have a way of handling yourself through truly remarkable life. The problem is that if we all acted like you, where were we going to go or how were we going to settle our differences? The same happened later with the referendum. It was the two approaches that were made to me here over the years. Make a tax pact and authorize a referendum. I asked the then President of the Generalitat to come to the House and present his proposal for a fiscal pact, and he refused. Of course, I suppose that's why you said that as long as it takes centuries for a House to agree with your ideas, because from there, as long as it takes centuries, great, I do what I want. And therefore, what is the use of this House? Not at all, it represents what it represents. That is another of the statements you made here this morning, Mr Tardà. He has announced his road map, his road map in contravention of the law. But what else does the law give you? Well, if the law doesn't work, someone will. Will it be the law of the strongest, go to the jungle, Mr. Tardà? What would you say if the others did exactly the same approach we heard here this morning? The courts are useless, unless I'm right about what I'm doing. Then he tells us about the debt. Indeed, the debt is in the name of the Spanish State, as you call it; it is the debt of the whole of Spain, but it is because we are helping in the difficult situation that the Generalitat is currently conducting; we are helping because we are Spanish, Mr Tardà, that is why we are helping, and since we are Spanish, we are all equal and we are all solidarity. Was it my fault that when I came to the government the Generalitat of Catalonia was financed at 7.75 % to one year? Was I to blame, Mr. Tardà? Well, it's funded at zero today. And you know why it's funded at zero? Because this is a nation that doesn't leave anyone behind and because here we are equal and supportive. That's why. [[Applauds]] I have a few responsibilities, Mr Tardà, but the most important thing I have is to ensure that the Spanish Constitution is complied with and that I do not have the slightest doubt that I will ensure that the Spanish Constitution and the law are complied with, because that is my main obligation as long as I am President of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, elections have been held in the province of Tarragona only a few days ago, on the same date as in the rest of Spain, on 26 June. Six deputies were elected and the result was as follows: 1, 1, 1, 1, 1 and 1. One for the People's Party, one for the Citizens, one for the Socialist Party, one for the Communal Party, one for the Left and one for the Democratic Party, the former Convergence. Isn't that plural Catalonia? Why do you speak on behalf of Catalonia? Has it occurred to you that perhaps there are people in Catalonia who think differently than you? Some of us seem to be seeing the election results. You have given us an explanation of 19, 15 and 12. Well, there are some who declare independenceists and others don't. Everyone has the right to declare what you think is appropriate and appropriate, Mr Tardà, and I will not be the one to forbid it, neither I nor anyone, but the only thing that neither I nor anyone will admit is that you intend to liquidate the law, the rights of citizens and national sovereignty, because that, Mr Tardà, is to return to the jungle. We're not gonna let him. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of people in Catalonia and a lot of people in the rest of Spain who want to continue living together as always, Mr Tardà, together as always. This is the oldest European nation, the first to get its unity and we have done many good things together and some bad things and, as you say, our blood has been mixed. There are many Galicians who have gone to Catalonia to earn a living and have done so, some have stayed there and others have returned, just as there are Catalans who have gone to other places in Spain, even from outside Spain. We've lived for the last forty magnificent years, probably the best in our history. He said yesterday, and I repeat again now, that we are the fourth country in the world where per capita income has increased the most over the past forty years. We have entered Europe, into an area of democracy, freedom, human rights and economic and social progress. We live in a world where processes are no longer medieval, they are integration, union and not separation, that is the European Union. We used to talk here about renouncing sovereignty. Yes, of course, we are giving up sovereignty quotas. How can one live in the world by walking in the opposite direction in all countries? What are the great unions of countries that are taking place in North America and what is happening in Asia? You walk in the opposite direction to what the world says. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma makes gestures]] Yes, Mr. Tardà, you're walking in the opposite direction. It gives us instructions here on the border, what Europe has to do or what Europe has to stop doing. We don't threaten anything, we just know how to read the treaties. [[Rumors]] No, it is you who threaten, threaten to violate the law, threaten with a road map, threaten not to comply with the judgments of the courts; you are the ones who have threatened here today in this House. You can't go like this for life, you can't because in the end you end up generating too much fracture, too much tension, too much division and doing too much harm to honest and decent citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u63	Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u64	Mr. Rajoy, do you mean we're in the opposite direction to history? You know, for example, that in the twentieth century the right to self-determination ended the right to conquest, as in the nineteenth century human moral progress allowed the abolition of slavery. And in the globalized world of new technologies and the new industrial revolution that we face even strictly representative democracy will be overcome by participatory democracy; there will be no democracy if there is no citizen empowerment and absolute respect for the democratic wills of citizens. I mean, you politically, and I'm not offended because I don't tell you personally, and you know it. It's a reactionary. [[Rumors]] Yes, politically. In fact, you are in the 21st century what Cánovas del Castillo was about in the 20th century, a reactionary that still defended according to what types of very restricted democratic participation that had nothing to do with the 20th century. So this path is very dangerous for you, because it will even lead you to execute the threats; in fact, you are already doing it. I would remind you that you presided over the Council of Ministers in which a decision was made to undertake a judicial operation, yes, a judicial operation; you know that in the Spanish State, sometimes more than separation of powers, there is a distribution of powers. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] in order to bring the President of the Parliament of Catalonia and other members of the Bureau to the courts because they had allowed the debate and the adoption of conclusions of a parliamentary work carried out by legal and legitimate representatives of the people of Catalonia. Do you realize where you're starting to walk? I told you before that you're already installed on the scene of repression. There are democratically elected Catalan leaders who are already being judged and you are on this path, so the answer has been: we are not afraid. Of course not, because behind us there is a very majority will in Catalonia, very majority, that wants to exercise the right to decide Yes, yes, yes, even if you say no. [[Several Members: No!]] You have had no respect for legality when you have agreed to it. I have never heard of any voice of the People's Party denounce that today Catalonia is the only territory of the current Spanish state governed by a statute that is not legal. It is not legal, because article 152.2 of the Constitution states that the whole statutory procedure must be initiated if there is a change. Remember what happened a few weeks ago in Austria: what did the Austrian Supreme Court command? That the presidential elections had to be repeated because there had been a mistake. Maybe a fraud. in the counting of votes, and it turns out that we are installed in a Statue that does not conform to legality and you, muti. Two. Don't talk to me about constitutionalism, because you've prostituted him. Constitutionalism is sometimes based on falsehoods. I'll tell you two. One, how many times have I heard from fellow members of the People's Party, people with whom we have a dialogue and a relationship of educated, educated colleagues, if they allow petulance, affirm that Spain is a nation that has five hundred years of existence. By the way, get off the Internet Isabel de Castilla's will, read it and see that she always referred to herself as the queen of Castilla and Castilla alone. Second lie... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u65	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u66	Second falsehood, I'm sorry. You have always said that Catalonia belongs to the Spanish State or Spain by free will. When constitutionalism is based on falsehoods, it ceases to be constitutionalism, and you know what it becomes, Mr. Rajoy? In national constitutionalism. [[Applauds]] This is what you practice. By the way, I must admit one thing, there were even neighboring democracies that also fell into this trap, for example, the Fourth French Republic. It is true, but it was only in a transitory way, when, as you know, the French Republic regarded Algeria as an overseas territory, and came what came and provoked what provoked it. But the French reacted and the Fourth Republic fell. Instead, in the twenty-first century, you continue to base your constitutionalism on great falsehoods, daughters of the most reactionary educational programs of the nineteenth century. I will give you another example, which I do not know if you will allow me to put it to you because I do not want this to be a historicist debate. You are Galician and have a cultural relationship with Portugal. Come up here, let's do an exercise, Mr Rajoy, come up here, address the Portuguese citizens and tell them that if Philip IV had defeated them in Montes Claros, now they would be Spanish and belong to Spain and, of course, would not have the right to self-determination. Let's see if he has the courage to come up here, address the Portuguese and tell them this. Oh, not the Portuguese, not the Catalans, of course, because this historically does is to give you ammunition. Why do you two understand each other so perfectly? Why? What does it put on them? When you are unable to solve the smallest problems in society. Since they are incapable of solving the problems of the citizens, as they have no external enemies, we must take the Catalans and, if those Catalans also come with a democratic mandate because they want to exercise the right to decide peacefully and civically, I stand with them. Because also, as historically we already have many generations that have preceded us accustomed to giving sticks to Catalans, we continue. Well, you're wrong, Mr. Rajoy. We, the Catalan, peacefully, civically and mostly, will exercise the right to decide. And if they put us in jail, the citizens of Catalonia, civically and peacefully, will get us out of it. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rajoy, allow me to address Mr. Pedro Sánchez, and this is not rude to you. Pedro Sánchez, you choose In Catalan we say either box or track: or the reaction, Cánovas del Castillo reincarnado en Rajoy, or you lead an alternative. In fact, I'm willing to rectify. I told him in the past debate that he was short of size. Maybe we're wrong. I am willing to correct, but you too believe that it can be the alternative. We only ask for three things, but they are three conditions sine qua non. I also tell you this because we are not fooled and not lied to you and us, because because of our anti-fascist and anti-Franchist history we deserve mutual respect. If you are willing to repeal the most reactionary laws of the People's Party The law bites, the Lomce, the labor reform, those that will not be repealed thanks to the intervention of Citizens, if you are willing to implement social democratic economic, social and fiscal policies and to authorize a referendum so that Catalans can decide our future, then count on us. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u68	Catalans always and let me refer basically to Republicans, Republicanism. we have felt concerned to collaborate and to engage with the Spanish left. So, Esquerra's word: if you lead this alternative, Esquerra's word, we vote in favour. But it is also the word of Esquerra that if you do not do so or do not assume the three conditions we will vote against. If any value has the word of the Republicans, it is that we are used to being faithful to what we say publicly. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u69	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The last part of Mr Tardà's speech reflects his position very well. Mr Sánchez, if you accept Mr Tardà's terms, that is, if you do what Mr Tardà says, Mr Tardà will vote for you to be President of the Government; if not, he threatens to not vote for you, even though I am sitting in that seat but doing what you do is the same because Mr Tardà will do what he wants. [[pointing out Mr Rajoy Brey's place in the Chamber]] [[Laughter]] If you support him, in return he is going to make him president of the government, and he is already doing what he wants; and if he does not support him, it is exactly the same because, as you have told us here, Mr Tardà will do what he wants, because Mr Tardà is above the law, he is above the rights of the Spaniards, he is above the courts. That is why I am surprised that, being above the courts, it seems wrong for me to go to court, forgetting that one of my duties as President of the Government when I consider that the Spanish Constitution is not being fulfilled is to address the Constitutional Court, which will or will not give me the reason as it sees fit and desirable. That's the separation of powers, Mr. Tardà. It would be useful to review some important concepts that have been very useful in the history of humanity. I certainly do not agree that representative democracy does not exist. If you want to go to Participatory Democracy-Assembly Democracy, it seems to me that you are not making an effort precisely to move to the modern world in which we are and in which some want to continue for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Charter of the United Nations was adopted on 26 June 1945. There were some important things for humanity as a whole, and one of them was that there would only be the right of self-determination in cases of decolonization, in military occupied territories or in places where people's fundamental rights were violated. That is why, earlier only in the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia, today in Ethiopia and, under many conditions, in Canada there is that right that you intend to arrogate, liquidated the rights of all those who do not think like you. But in democracy, Mr Tardà, the first is the rule of law, an expression of the will of the majority. Don't ever forget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u71	Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, because we have not already finished the debate, but I would like to make a few specific points. In the State of Alabama, racial segregation was legal, even the citizens of Alabama, mostly, conformed, consented to or did not oppose racial segregation. And things changed, by the way, with the help of Washington, with the help of the federal government. Do you think you can go to Europe, to meetings with European statesmen, if you have Catalan political prisoners in jail? [[Laughter]] Yeah, yeah. Why are you laughing? Do you know that there are already open cases of a judicial nature for disobedience that inevitably lead to imprisonment? Right now, the president of the Parliament of Catalonia can end up perfectly in prison. And what will you do? What will you tell them? It turns out we've been a nation for 500 years. Will this tell Mrs Merkel? Because it is clear that there is a majority democratic mandate, by the way, civic and peaceful. How good it would have been for some of you, not all of you, that in the great mobilizations that have occurred in Barcelona in recent times and in which hundreds of thousands of people have participated there would have been violence. But it's just that they didn't even break trash. And I would like to be told whether since the liberation of Paris there have been such numerous, peaceful and civic mobilizations in Europe as there have been in Barcelona in recent times. How, then, will this whole course of action of the Catalans, shared by other peoples who are just as peaceful and civic as we are, be justified in marrying this with which the President of the Parliament of Catalonia or perhaps the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia are imputed and at the gates of prison? Do you know where they got into? We say that we have a democratic mandate, we say that in silo XXI the empowerment of citizens is fundamental and that thanks to those who accumulated forces empowering citizens in Alabama it was then possible to abolish racial segregation. That is why I have told you that we will exercise peaceful, civic and Gandhian resistance and will be able to find the formulas. And, of course, if the citizens of Catalonia want, we will be independent, and if they don't, we won't. [[One Member: Also]] And live democracy! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u73	The candidate for the presidency of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u74	I'll answer your question. I am not going to say anything to my fellow Europeans, and in particular to Mrs Merkel, whom you mentioned, because everyone in Europe knows that Spain is a nation of free and equal citizens, a democracy where human rights are respected and where we are all subject to the law. It is a rule of law like the rest of the countries that make up the European Union, because if we were not there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall make two points. The first is that, in accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, I announce that the vote will take place not before 18:30. The second is that we are going to make a one-hour recess from this moment, from 14:50 to 15:50. [[Mr Esteban Bravo asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u76	Excuse me, my group hasn't been informed that I was going to have a break. I ask you to reconsider your decision and so we can intervene now, which is what was ours, because no one has warned us that we are going to proceed in a different way.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u77	Your Honor, the Presidency has considered that the time has come for the recess and I have not told you that or the contrary. The meeting was suspended. It was two and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at three and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u78	The meeting was resumed. I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u79	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. candidate, and President-in-Office, allow me to make some reflections on the subject that we are dealing with today before I enter fully as far as your candidacy is concerned. It must be recognized that you are the only one, Mr Rajoy, to rule without Parliament, to push forward, to ignore the Legislature, the division of powers and to make at certain times of your cape a saying. They passed their more than four years of legislature without paying attention to the opposition on the basis of their absolute majority, adopting by decree-law dozens of subjects that would not have occurred to them nor to the most conspicuous of the parents of the Constitution who could be the subject of an instrument such as the decree-law, created for exceptional cases and which of course the Magna Charter does not quote. It has come to pass not four, but five budgets in a four-year legislature. And then, since he stopped having that absolute majority and with the excuse of being in office, I don't say it's by his will, but with the excuse of being in office, he's been ruling ten months, ten months!, without any kind of parliamentary control. Life is supposed to go on, the economic crisis is still there, and the Government is either making decisions or failing to take them by having concrete effects on the impulse of productive activity, the maintenance of employment or the welfare state, but his Government cannot be asked anything. Its Ministers It's getting less and less, by the way. They are not prepared to go to Parliament for control sessions or to answer questions in writing. That is, that you do and undo and others cannot know if you are acting within the scope that the fact of being in office attributes you or if you have exceeded it. Nor can we tell you that in this transit in operation you must act in one way or another when making a decision. And yet Parliament is today the only body that legitimately represents popular expression, because a government in office does not represent it. And on top of that, you have to say that this Parliament cannot control you because it belongs to a different legislature than it chose you. Who have you represented for ten months to refuse parliamentary control? It is incredible, ten months without parliamentary control in a European country, and nothing happens; and then they tell the Catalans that they are acting out of the law. Two words also for the Constitutional Court, which runs as if it were alive on how many occasions it has been required by a government in office to confront the Catalan Parliament, but which is in no hurry to decide on the parliamentary control that the Courts can exercise. [[Applauds]] They're on vacation, that's the last thing I heard. As long as they are on vacation, they have the popular representation of the State with their hands tied to carry out their work, as if this fact did not question more than any other the lack of validity of the Constitution themselves that they claim to defend. Spain defends the Constitution when it suits the commander and for what interests some; for the interests of those who represent the heart of the national sense their lines can be twisted, such as the plasticine. To the rest, to those who are not of the Spanish patriotic league, to those they do apply the legislation in force, as to the indifferent. And in this case, it is the Constitutional Court, again, with its disdain, who is consenting to it; and then they tell us about legitimacy, neutrality and law. In Euskadi and Catalonia he has lost any neutral patina he could have had. Mr. Candidate, yesterday you made a speech that I personally did not expect. He surprised me unpleasantly and left me worried. It was a speech, in my opinion, rancid and irresponsible. Considering that you are a candidate with a parliamentary group that does not enjoy an absolute majority and that with the seats that you seem to have added up is not enough for your investiture, it would seem logical to think that your speech had been suffocated, with more or less mentions, by matters of interest to those parliamentary groups that require your votes. Of course, it is clear that our vote did not seek it. You believe that we are all obliged to help your candidacy since the matters raised by you are unspeakable. In other words, we must act like this out of pure patriotism, and it is that, as you yourself say, Spain is a great country and, consequently, must be full of patriots concerned about territorial unity and a little less about the economy, finances, the maintenance of social services and the fulfilment of international obligations, and even to protect the country's good name from a third election that would make it the laughing stock of the European arena. This great country, with abundant patriotically constitutionalist parties, now no longer two, but four, those parties that will run, which ensure the country's name and progress, which are the guarantee of the constitutional unity and the good progress of Spain, are not able to agree on a minimum, no longer to make a pact of legislature but even to roll out the legislature, to set in motion a government, however precarious it may be. And here it is that, at least until yesterday, according to many political actors and many more media, we were the nationalist parties, like the one I represent, who should bear on our shoulders the responsibility of running the legislature and maintaining the government, whoever it is. But are we not tired of hearing that Basque and Catalan nationalists are the expression of a people's mentality, selfish, retrograde and little traveled and, as you said yesterday, undemocratic? Are we going to save Spain's good name in the international context? Although, to be honest, it is true that you must admit that you have not personally made the slightest effort to try to attract our vote. It is clear that you do not want our vote, and that must be said clearly. We also do not want to vote for you, and I would also like to make it clear to you, for the reasons I shall set out later. But his co-religionaries in Euskadi have had enough in the last few weeks to claim it, both Alfonso Alonso "get out of the no front"; "contribute to the non-third elections" as Borja Semper "pacten with the PP". They've tried. What is more curious is that the other great pillar of Spanish stability, the Socialist Party, has spent the last two months trying to push the Basque and Catalan nationalist vote towards the PP, saying that the PNV and the Catalan Democratic Party are its natural ideological allies. It is necessary to have a face, when we all know that Pedro Sánchez tried to reach La Moncloa last legislature negotiating with us. Nor have Mr. Iglesias and his surroundings been repressed, the purest among the pure; also Spanish patriots, as they have self-defined to augur no doubt our vote in favour of you. What we will all laugh if we receive the call of the socialist leader to form an alternative majority, if as it seems your candidacy fails, Mr Rajoy! The PNV will have passed in the particular daltonism of the ideological affinities of Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias from being a blue green to being a reddish green, increasingly colored as the tomato tones mature. If you dare to rule, of course, because taking the reins of such a socio-economic situation is not desirable. The third pillar of the national unity, rhetorical adalid of the equality of all Spaniards, is Citizens, that party capable of any contortion so as to be in the ointment. In case there was any doubt, it has already made clear to them that the PNV do not want to see it in an agreement or in painting. Mrs Arrimadas has said that Citizens will not accept that PNV or Convergence facilitate Rajoy's investiture, and Mr Villegas has assured that PNV is incompatible because of the ideological distance that separates us. These are the ones who are going to put Basques and Catalans in their place. For this they were born; not to be a center party, but an intransigent party, champion of an idea of Spain of other times, and unwilling to reach agreements with the majority political parties in Euskadi and Catalonia, which represent many citizens who simply ignore. [[Applauds]] It was the party that with its presence would make the Basque and Catalan nationalist seats insignificant. I would say that, given the results of the last two electoral calls, they have achieved exactly the opposite. It doesn't stop being ironic. But they're in luck. Indeed, the PNV was not born with the vocation or the objective of being the party that provides stability to Spain at the expense of its principles, but to give way to Basque national recognition and the articulation of its sovereignty. Let us move away from this responsibility, which does not belong to us at all: to give way to a government which, from the day following the investiture, would promote initiatives of re-centralisation as a trophy to display for Mr Rivera, a government to which our votes are five votes. they could not limit themselves by not being sufficient to obtain the majority of the House. No, that's what the four great Spanish patriotic parties are for: PP, Citizens, PSOE and Podemos. Settle down among yourselves if you truly think more about Spain than about your own partisan interests. Yesterday, Mr. candidate, you made a description of Spain in my intolerant opinion. For you the most important problem was neither unemployment, nor the economy, nor Europe, nor the cuts of your Government. The most important thing, as you said, I open quotes, was: look at what we are talking about, the unity of Spain. A unity like you understand it: exclusionary and uniformizing. According to you, there is only one nation here. I'll make it clear to you, because that's what most Basques think. Euskadi is a nation. The Basques are a nation on both sides of the Pyrenees, with a language of their own that has nothing to do with Spanish. To solve problems of national identity in the twenty-first century, the Constitution of 1812 brought us to the fore. It seems good to me, but the Spanish constitutional system had to be imposed by force throughout the 19th century in the face of constant protests by deputies and general assemblies, culminating in an army of occupation, the Army of the Northern Occupation. We have never given the approval to any Spanish constitution, nor to the 1978 constitution, which only validated 30% of the Basque census. I want to make it clear to you. We have not given the approval to the Spanish Constitution. Although we have then complied with the law, we have not endorsed the Spanish Constitution, and we will always rebel against a Constitution and a State that does not recognize us as a nation. You talk to me about unity and I talk to you about freedom. But what reasons could we have, Mr. candidate, to support your candidacy? Believe me, I've really been looking for them in their career as president of the government and in the agreement you've recently signed. Mr. Candidate, we already know you as President of the Government. Why should we support him when he has used the economic crisis as an excuse to refocus skills? Mr Rodríguez Zapatero has amended with you allimón article 135 of the Constitution, making the State the nanny of the autonomous communities, which see their economic and financial powers limited, and therefore their ability to exercise the policies that correspond to them. Mr. Montoro has become a kind of overseer who forbids, grants, punishes and rewards his will. Why do we have to support you, Mr. candidate, when you have passed the Independent Fiscal Authority Act, the Market Unity Act, the Omnibus Decree 8/2014, which amends more than twenty-five laws of a pen, and the Sports Licenses Act, all of them invading powers, until then autonomous? Why should we support your candidacy when you are allowed to resort again and again to the calls of the Ertzaintza aimed at maintaining your strength, simply because it gives you the will, through the Budgets Act, without passing through the Security Board, which is where any problems should be clarified? This is an attack on the first additional provision of the Constitution, because security in the Basque Country directly interferes with the first additional provision. The foral relationship is based precisely on the fact that a Government, however Spanish it may be, cannot, through its own law, skip what must necessarily be a matter of agreement. You and Mr Montoro have many people today who do not know if they will be able to access their employment as ertzainas because of their maneuvers. Why should we support him, if his Government ill-treats Ertzaintza as if he were a second-class police, denying him information, usurping his position as a natural judicial police granting him the status, preventing him from going to European security forums, denying him the character of Schengen police, and ultimately treating him as a kind of municipal police? Why should we support him then? Why should we support his candidacy when he maintains a delegate from the Basque Government who is obsessed with filing an appeal after another against the laws of Parliament and the outlaws of our general meetings, a character who crushes the Basque municipalities with a blind zeal that leads him to appeal any resolution that has been adopted in Basque, but never the one that has been adopted in Spanish is not translated into Basque? Mr Rajoy, why should we support your candidacy when we are still waiting for your Government to do something in defence of the Basque steel industry, when we are still waiting for you to answer us if you have taken into account the non-legislative proposal passed by this Congress at the request of my group in the last parliamentary term? Why should we support your candidacy when, in accordance with our request to proceed with the study of the transfer of the railway lines close to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, you respond with the approval, in the Law on the Railway Sector, of a catalogue of lines of general interest so wide that it eliminates any possibility of future transfer? Why should we support your candidacy when, to our request to proceed with the study of the transfer to the autonomous community of airports, you respond by privatizing AENA and thus preventing the proper management of the three airports? Why should we support his candidacy when he has tried to impose his policies in the health field, such as copago, with which we are in complete disagreement, when the Basque Autonomous Community has exclusive competence in this matter? Why should we support him when he passed a law like Lomce? Why should we support him when Euskadi's exclusive competence in educational matters, based specifically on the first additional provision of the Constitution, is being jumped into the torera, and they intend to limit our educational system as that of another non-foral autonomous community, using our own educational curriculum? Why support your candidacy if you want to impose a centralist educational model, when our statistics on educational results and school failure are much better than the average in the state? Why should we support your candidacy, Mr Rajoy, when your Government has been betting over and over again on the reopening of Garoña, an obsolete and old nuclear power plant, which would produce a negligible amount of electricity, and because of the risks that no one wants, not even their own party in the Basque Country? Why should we support your candidacy when you make your cape an essay with the Historical Memory Act, eliminating the allocated budget items, keeping the names of thugs and murderers on the streets of many villages where they rule, withholding the documentation of the Basque Government of 1936 in Salamanca, and refusing to return the ikurriñas of our headquarters and battalions found in various archives and museums of the State? Why are we going to support your candidacy, Mr President, when in a time when any European citizen can see from Al-Yazira to any chain in the Far East, passing through the Europeans and the Americans, has jealously prevented the transmission of EITB from reaching Navarre? Why were we going to support that gesture, let me do it cateto and retrograde? Why should we support his candidacy when, contrary to what they say he preaches, his Minister of the Interior again and again hinders the Nanclares Way; when he drives a trapping transposition of the European framework for the enforcement of sentences; when he does not take a single step to contribute to the normalisation of Euskadi after the end of the violence of ETA, continuing with his speech as if nothing had changed? How are we going to support you, Mr Rajoy, when you have refused not an agreement anymore, but the dialogue with the Basque Government on this issue of pacification? How are we going to support him when he has promoted a reform of the Criminal Code that contains a life imprisonment hidden under the euphemism of reviewable permanent prison? A penal reform that has had as its main objective to increase the penalties, as if this were the balm of Fierabrás, I can also use it. to solve the problem of crime. An authoritarianism, Mr Rajoy, which is also revealed in the elimination of the faults of the Criminal Code, converting some into crimes and leaving the rest in the hands of the Administration, with the consequent reduction of guarantees, as well as tightening the sanctions in the new Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, the Law Mordaza. An authoritarian turn that is also revealed in the desire to ignore allegations of torture, which may be true or false, but must be investigated. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly condemned Spain for not investigating alleged torture, as well as for paying moral damages. The Government has never ordered any investigation to clarify the matter. The European Union has urged you to take measures recommended by the Council of Europe's Committee on the Prevention of Torture, and you have no case. Mr Rajoy, how can you expect us to support your candidacy when the management you have made of one of the main axes of European connection, the high-speed Atlantic railway axis, has been of abandonment and desirousness? You have refused to give us certain data on the progress of the work and commitments that you yourself have set. We have not been able to receive our own interventions in the "Diaries of Sessions" as a response to specific data that we asked of them. What have we finally known through the Parliamentary Bulletin of Economics and Budgets? That, as we suspected, his bet on the state's investments in Euskadi was a lot of words and few facts. The only item on the 2015 budget for state investment in Euskadi was ADIF. Of the 221 million planned to be spent, only 57 were spent, that is, 27.1 % of the planned expenditure; that is to say, of every 4 euros that the PP of the Basque Country was announcing to a bowl and dish that they were going to be spent, they were only spending one; the rest to the hole of the State. What is the status of the project? What deadlines do we have to finish the Basque Y? The year 2019 that the former minister Pastor was repeating was no longer believed by her. And what about the Cup Law? It will end the period of what should have been the five-year law 2012/2016, and it has not yet been adopted, without the previous law being settled, and it will not be because they have not been asked to do so. Of the negotiations for the five-year law 2017/2021 there is no trace or expected. This isn't serious. Why should we support him if he continues to empty the Social Security box without seeking any parliamentary consensus to ensure its viability? Now, at last, the other day, we heard that he was going to convene the Toledo Pact. Why should we support him when he refuses to hand over Basque pensions to Euskadi, despite the competence in the management of the economic system of social security which corresponds to the autonomous community according to the statute? And don't say they're deficient; they're also at the state level, much more. Transfer them and we'll take the risk. I'm sure they'll be better managed and insured. Why should we support you, Mr. candidate, if your economic policy has not been the most appropriate in social terms or in terms of reforming the state's economic bases? We do not support a model based on wage deflation and job insecurity, low wages, cheap dismissal, but rather we must move towards a model of greater added value; a model that supports innovation, training and public investment. An increase in productivity is needed and a new growth model is essential for this. For this to be so nothing or very little has been done in five years. Indeed, the underlying problem of the Spanish economy is low productivity. Employment is growing at a rate of GDP, then productivity growth is zero. For 2017 are your data and also from the IMF GDP is projected to increase by 2.3% and employment is expected to increase by 2.36. Same thing. Without productivity, it is impossible to improve wages and create skilled jobs. The international economic context makes all the signs project a slowdown in the Spanish economy by 2017. You can't trust private investment. Increased investment is needed, both in public works and in R & D+i. And Europe remains in its thirteen: the only recipes that come are still those of the cut, they do not contemplate economic incentive, and you do not seem willing to face that approach. No one talks about that tale of milk called "I remember it every time I go up to this rostrum." Plan Juncker, Mr President, which was going to reactivate the economy above the adjustments. Where did you stay? Has your Government in office claimed this? What steps have you taken in particular? You will tell me that great progress has been made, but as Alfred Montapert said, do not confuse movement with progress. A rocking horse moves, but nothing progresses. Your deal with Citizens. Far from changing our vision, it has reaffirmed and made clear to us that an agreement is impossible. Citizens have done exactly the same with you as with the PSOE, only that on this occasion not only the social but also the economic sphere is re-centralised. The text they have signed does not reveal the political and institutional context that theoretically exists in Spain, it seems as if the competences of autonomous communities or municipalities do not exist. Everything can be done from the will of the omnipotent State that knows no barriers to its intervention; thus, agencies and commissions are newly created to oversee the development and implementation of competences that do not belong to the State, with the added power to compel the autonomous communities to act according to the criteria imposed on them. Examples: General Secretariat of the Market Unit, Independent Consumer Protection Authority, State Agency for the Evaluation of Public Policy and Quality of Services for Action in Education, Health and Social Services See if they are the three classics of autonomous competition; another example is the state institute for talent in employment, in the field of active employment policies. In other words: the end of the political autonomy of the autonomous communities, the emptying of autonomous competences on the road to a mere administrative decentralization. They intend to turn the Organic Law on Budgetary and Financial Stability more upside down so that the capacity of the autonomous bodies is further constrained and Mr Montoro's supervisory powers are strengthened. It's expressly picked up. They intend to harmonize their own taxes and handovers to the autonomous communities. Where is political autonomy again? I want to think It's not clear and I personally have my serious doubts. which do not include among those quoted to the agreed tributes. They want to burden themselves with fiscal and financial autonomy. In short, they want to continue the centralizing path already adopted in the previous legislature, but in a strengthened way, without changing the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy. What we could compare to an amputation of a limb with anesthesia, that is, to make it seem kind and not to you, but the result is amputation. Although after your speech yesterday it gave me the feeling that they were going to take the axe out to the Viking. There are some areas where they seem to have been hung in time in that agreement. They have now discovered seed capital, seed capital, for business creation. A system that was already used in Euskadi in the 1980s. And the real problem is not the initial states of startup creation. Their document focuses on the situation in which the difficulty is smaller and almost non-existent today. At the moment, the main difficulty lies in financing the continuity of many projects in intermediate stages prior to consolidation, and they say nothing about that. They're talking about creating an ex novo technology transfer network, like there's nothing there. In Euskadi we have already taken many steps in this field, we do not need them to equal us worse or to control us. They make a separation in pond compartments between innovation, science and technology; a model expired and no longer applied. The science, technology and innovation system is a continuous whole working together with industry, constituting a complete value chain. At least that's what we've been doing successfully in Euskadi for many years now so that you can come now to change it to an outdated and inefficient model. They aim to reach 2% of GDP by 2020. It is a poor and far from the European average. Specific mention should be made of the guaranteed wage supplement. That is, instead of raising the minimum wage and making companies pay better wages, they claim that among all taxpayers they are subsidizing companies. That they save a little money on the wages of the workers. and that he will arrive at the worker as a guinea pig when making the income declaration. No way! That what needs to be done here is to improve wages and raise the minimum wage! And on the other hand, that's for those of you who live in trouble. What about those who don't have a job? And in case there is little, the occurrence of the escalating protection contract, which is expected to be used to ensure that they do not have a longer duration and thus the compensation is lower, and which is also subsidized in the first 500 euros of the contribution base for four years if it becomes an indefinite contract. That is, rounding up, just over 6,000 euros in four years for each contract that loses the Social Security coffers. Nothing, nothing, keep giving business exemptions on the right-hand and sinister quotes and emptying the hut. I insist, we call for the transfer of the economic system of social security, including pensions to Euskadi, as provided for in the Statute, because seeing how you manage them, this is the only way to ensure them. In the section where they talk about the Unit Act one does not know whether to doubt, laugh or cry. They're going to carry out a process of evaluation and coordination to ensure common quality standards. It'll be a joke, won't it? That is, that Euskadi, the only autonomous community that is complying with the legislation imposed by the Courts imposed by the courts, and since the state is a slow one is paying out of its pocket the high costs associated with these services, you will tell it how to provide them. The state has no jurisdiction, no pay, and it's going to supervise us and say what we have to do. By the way, it is curious that when they talk about infrastructures they say that they must prioritize themselves according to their social, economic and financial profitability, but then, in case they do not enter into these objective criteria, they point out that the works of the AVE in Galicia must be accelerated..I believe that there is something out there in a short time.. and the variant of Pajares-Leon. You can see the plumer. Hear if it is for profitability and potential use, what about the Basque Y, which is also the trunk of the Atlantic axis? But of course I can't help but mention the final stumbling block of the document, the one that says talk to the one that you spent a lot of time yesterday. the strengthening of institutions and the territorial model, but whose object is a pact for the unity of Spain literally and the defence of the Constitution, with a firm commitment to oppose any attempt to convene a referendum. If we were unanimated, and as you put it yesterday, you will tell us. No national recognitions to Basques and Catalans, one nation, big and free. Traitor who dares to talk to them about these issues. Hala, go on like this with your unstructured country, where you don't even agree to have a government until the final victory. In conclusion, Madam President, you see that I adjust quite to the time. The Basque Nationalist Party is open to dialogue always, but was not born to solve the problems of the Spanish Government. The People's Party has done nothing to try to bring our vote closer, not a gesture or a sign or an announcement of anything that could be among our priorities. On the contrary, insofar as their actions during the last five years had not made this clear to us, the agreement signed with Citizens and their speech yesterday show that they are not interested in our vote, nor do they intend to redirect their strategy to a policy in which institutional dialogue prevails over imposition, through judicial remedies, nor do they intend to treat Euskadi in a bilateral relationship, but they intend to continue to consider it an additional autonomous community, subject in any case to the decisions of the central power over the agreed competition framework. I don't know if one day they will come to terms with facing social and political realities as they are, and trying to find solutions through dialogue rather than imposition is the only way to fix things; it would be for the benefit of Spain as well as the Basque and Catalan nations. When they are willing to agree, not to resort continuously to the courts, not to dilute the autonomous powers and to comply fully with the statute, to reach a new bilateral agreement in the Basque-State relations, recognizing that the Basques are a nation with a majority will to be considered this way, then call us; meanwhile, agur. Eskerrik asko, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Group, you said at the beginning of your speech that you had been surprised by mine yesterday. I am not even going to say that which I have just heard of today; as I understand that nothing particular is going on with you, I will confine myself to finding an objective fact. You have begun your intervention by sharing right hand and wrong hand; it is true that I was touched by the worst part, which on the other hand is quite reasonable. In any case, be completely and absolutely certain that I am not aware of being as bad as is deduced from your intervention this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that one of your first criticisms is that we had passed laws, with you 56. That is, 56 times in 56 bills we have agreed with you throughout this legislature. It is true that on more occasions we have done so with other political forces. It is true that some laws were supported by three or four parliamentary groups and there were some laws that were not passed by anyone. It is true that we were in a legislature in which it was obliged to take decisions for the reasons of every kind that you know, mainly because of the urgency and the need to take decisions that were bound by the economic circumstances in which we lived, but it does not seem to me that the circumstance of having adopted together with you 56 bills empowers you to say that we have done here what we consider appropriate and appropriate. It also seems to me to be a hardly intelligible criticism that we have adopted five budgets in four years. I sincerely believe that you should have congratulated us on this, or at least, if you do not want to congratulate us, it is in your right, you should simply have just seen it as an objective fact: four years, five budgets. It's true. We arrived at the Government on 21 December 2011 and could no longer approve the 2012 budget; we did so in March 2012. Then we approved the 2013 budget, the 2014 budget and the 2015 budget, and less bad that we approved the 2016 budget, which was very criticized by many political leaders present in this House, including you, but you will have to give me the reason, because you will understand that being two years without a budget is not the best thing for the general interests of the Spanish as a whole, nor of the Basques, nor of the Basque Government, nor of anyone, Mr Esteban. Your Honor, you can do whatever you want, as it is natural that we could get there, and therefore you may not vote for the nomination of the People's Party candidate. Frankly, I'd like you to do that, because I'd already have a few more votes. You can also make the considerations you want, but I haven't said a word yesterday or today about the Basque Nationalist Party, and I know it's not my job to defend other political forces. Nor did I hear the Socialist Party or the Lords of Podemos or Citizens speak of you or the Basque Nationalist Party. You are in coalition with some of them: in Navarre, in Vitoria, with Podemos; probably in some other places in the Basque Country also with the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]] That's good. He talks about the unity of the homeland, but what did you think? That I was coming here to defend something different from the unity of Spain? Something should have happened to me, because it's not something I can be sued for. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] It's obvious what my position is. However, I was surprised to hear many of the statements that you have made, but that I defend national unity, national sovereignty and the equality of the Spaniards is something logical and normal, because I am part of the People's Party, because I have done so on many occasions, because everyone knows what I think, and everyone knows that many of the parties to which you referred are in that position. You are also referring to article 135 of the Spanish Constitution. He said that the Basque Government had been deprived of its powers. Your Honor, the process of European construction deprives many public institutions of their powers. See, among other things, that you also know. is the Government of Spain. It turns out that one day he ran out of currency, monetary policy and exchange rate policy. This is the process of European construction that we are experiencing. This is a process that, as you know, is not à la carte and has some positive things, and this for me is also positive. But that has not happened only in the case of article 135, it has happened in many other cases. You're talking about market unity. Market unity is a basic principle of European construction, but we are not talking about the digital single market, the electricity issue or freedom of movement. Why do you want market unity for Europe and not for Spain? Is there a problem, is that bad for people, harms them, creates some difficulty? Or is it that the rights of the territories are above people's rights and well-being? Because, if not, I'm unable to find any other kind of explanation, Mr. Esteban. Mr Esteban, I would recommend you... well, I do not recommend it, I am not to recommend it, but I would like you to have a slightly more positive view of what has happened in these four years in both the Basque Country and the rest of Spain, of the relations between the PNV and the People's Party, between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. You can refuse to support my investiture, you have a perfect right, and the reason is not the speech I gave yesterday in this House. Or was it someone who believed yesterday, before I gave my speech, that the PNV was going to vote for us today? Everyone knew it wasn't like that. That's your position, and if you want to keep it, it's very good to do it. I'm asking you not to deny reality. One thing is your legitimate position; mine is different, and the other thing is to serve reality. And you cannot deny me, Mr Esteban, that we are at the time of the year in which we are and whatever month we live today, that my Government has responded to and responded to the concerns and needs of the Basques and that it has sought cooperation at all times with your Government. Another thing is that we haven't come to all understandings or that we haven't been able or wanted because we thought it wasn't positive. accept some of these approaches. Because if in the end the way of dealing with one another's relationships we will measure it in terms of how many times my pretensions are taken into account, it will be very difficult to conduct oneself normally by life. Your Honor, the reality is that in these four years things in the Basque Country have improved for people, they have improved fundamentally for something we all know in this House, although very few recognize it, because we have been able to straighten the way for the economy. Things have changed a lot in the last four and a half years. The GDP of the Basque Country at the end of 2011 grew at a rate of at least 1.4 per year, as you know better than I, i.e., it slowed the growth of the economy and therefore the level of well-being and wealth. Today, the opposite is true, last year the Basque economy grew at a rate of 3.1. This is why in December 2011 employment was destroyed at a rate of 1% per annum and today employment is created at a rate of 1.9% per annum. These are the real things, the objective data; from there everyone can think what they think is appropriate and convenient. I don't even think anymore, I just put on the table some facts that are hardly questionable by objectives. He spoke of the desire for re-centralisation and aggravation against the Basque self-government. That's not true, Mr. Esteban, it's not true. We have raised remedies against some rules but when we raise remedies it is because we aim to guarantee the rights of all Basques and respect for the Constitution of all Spaniards. That is the will of the Government. Yes, and when autonomous governments ♪ Be those who are ♪ They bring appeals before the Constitutional Court for the same reason, because they understand that this guarantees the rights of people who care about them. This is normal, what has always happened in Spain since 1978. That is why there is a Constitutional Court that has its functions. Nor have there been so many disputes, Mr. Esteban. The Basque Government has raised twenty-two jurisdictional conflicts in four years against state rules, and there have been many state rules over these four years. Of those twenty-two, twelve have been resolved by agreement between the two governments. In two cases, the Constitutional Court gave the Basque Government the reason and nine are still pending resolution. The Spanish Government, however, raised only seven conflicts and, of them, two are resources. The Basque Government, Mr Esteban, has questioned on thirty-four occasions state rules in the X Legislature, and on twelve occasions they have been resolved by agreements between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. We have questioned Basque rules on sixteen occasions, and on seven occasions we have been able to reach an agreement. Therefore, there has been a will for understanding; there has been, and good proof of that is that on many occasions we have come to that understanding, and neither has there been such a massive conflictivity as you intend to convey to this House this afternoon. What is evident is the ability to agree; see also that of the Basque Government and that of the Government of Spain. We have reached fifty-nine collaborative agreements or state competence management commissions for the exercise of these agreements by Basque institutions. Of this he did not speak, of the positive things are not spoken of. Here we are in another story. We have reached a very important agreement which I have not heard a word of this afternoon, which is Law 7/2014 of 21 April, which amends the Economic Agreement and provides for conciliation on six taxes. This is a positive fact, at least from your point of view, at least from the points of view you are defending: the gambling tax, the electricity sector taxes introduced by the Law of 27 December, the value tax on the production of electricity, the tax on the production of spent nuclear fuel, the tax on the storage of nuclear fuel, the tax on deposits of credit institutions and the tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases. Those are positive data, I insist, at least from your point of view. I think it is a fact that you could have also brought this afternoon to the attention of this House. Your Honor, in addition to your vote in favour of fifty-six laws in Congress and having concluded six new taxes, we have respected the extraneous particularities of local reform. We have supported Kutxabank in the framework of the financial reform; we have been betting, despite budgetary restrictions That there have been, as you know, and you also know the reasons, for the Basque Y; we have given the battle, as you very well know, in the case of the tax lease in Brussels, which was not easy, as you also know. And I have to tell you about the government's investment effort in the Basque Country, even though you're not talking about that. It may not touch today and we are at a politically uninteresting time to talk about positive things, but the Development Group has invested EUR 2 billion if we add up to the investment planned for this year. And in the case of the Basque Railway, which at the end of 2011 was to be implemented more than 75% of the investment, this is what was left, Mr Esteban; it is an important fact, today the reality is different. Since 2012 we have provided this infrastructure with more than 2.3 billion euros between general budgets, ADIF and Basque quota, and in the year we are, 2016, an allocation of 290 million euros is foreseen and we expect the Basque Y to be completed in 2019. On this matter you have been interested on numerous occasions and I have responded in the House. Believe me, I have followed this subject, but you know perfectly well, much better than I do, the technical difficulties that cause things to fail to be done with the speed with which we would like them to be done. Mr Esteban, we have defined and are working on the accesses of high speed to the cows' cities, and in the Plan of improvement of the quality of the proximity there are actions previewed for the nucleus of the vicinity of San Sebastián and Bilbao, destined precisely to the improvement of the actions of the two nuclei. I could give you many more examples: financial support for industrial investment within the framework of the policy of reindustrialisation and strengthening industrial competitiveness; loans have been granted in large quantities; the efforts made to the European institutions in defence of the naval sector; in the area of fisheries policy, in the negotiations with the European Union, all this is very well known to you, but it seems positive that it is not in your interest to know it as many citizens as possible. We have secured more funds than in other budget years. We have made a clear commitment to the maintenance of the special Basque tax and budgetary regime and we have done so because this is what our Constitution, which we voted for, provides for, and proof of this is the changes that took place at the concert, which are, of course, a magnificent example of institutional cooperation. Your Honor, I think you have read things in the document signed between the People's Party and Citizens that are not only not written, but have never even been thought of. This is a broad agreement on its objectives, in an inclusive spirit with regard to the proposals that are being put forward. It is not just a pact of two, it is an agreement for the benefit of the majority, an agreement that thinks of all the Spanish and, of course, also of all the Basque citizens. And I am concerned that you have not read, or at least not mentioned here today, many issues that particularly benefit Basque citizens. Which ones? Tax reduction, improving the quality of public services, strong support for industry and innovation... Issues that are positive for everyone, also for businesses and for Basque citizens. In short, Your Honor, you have made a very black approach to the past, the present and the future of all that I in no way can share. For you, the Spanish economy has not evolved to any better place than in recent years, but it is not right, Your Honor. You are not right because if you look at the data and see what has happened in the whole of Spain, and if you are able to do the same with what has happened in the Basque Country, you will see that today there is more growth, more employment, less unemployment, more exports, less inflation, more external surplus and, therefore, a situation that little we act with common sense and little we are able to convey a positive message, no doubt can help, and much, the future of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u82	Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u83	Mr President, it is clear that we have an absolutely different view of the situation. I hope that the statistics you have said have been more accurate than the number of bills we passed to them, because out of 159 there were exactly 30. If that seems to you very much, it seems to me that this is not a very good approach. I have made him a relationship of reasoned and well-founded criticisms that we see in that way. There are some objective data: the blocking of the calls of the Ertzaintza, the non-calls of the Concert Commission, etc., etc. I cannot be surprised that you are defending the Spanish unity, how I am going to be surprised, what is surprising is that you give the emphasis of half a speech to that subject, with more important ones to talk about in an investiture speech and, above all, in need of the help of other parliamentary groups. Because that was the basis of his speech. I wasn't surprised by the content and what I thought I already know what you think, what surprised me was the way. And tell me not, not a date to Euskadi, as saying, We have preserved you. Look, many of the assessments you made about how you understood Spain, the Spanish unity, the concept of a nation and what you directed towards the Catalans, obviously we have to feel concerned also because we also feel that we are a nation. You have said a very valuable phrase today: we must respect how everyone feels about their land, their country, their nation. I was telling a Galician representative. For you in yesterday's intervention did not respect anything, your idea of a Spanish nation was the denial of that of others. He could not even say: I recognize that there are some places in Spain where there are a majority of citizens who have another national feeling. Respect the feelings of others as well. No, no, it was an idea, honestly, overwhelming of his concept of Spain. This way nothing will ever be structured and nothing will ever move forward. And, by the way, with self-determination up and down. Give it to Yugoslavia, Ethiopia and the Soviet Union. I will give you an example of an existing text that speaks of self-determination. Germany, in the preamble to its Constitution: The Germans, in the Landers of Baden-Württemberg, Lower Saxony... they have consummated, in free self-determination, the unity and freedom of Germany. German Constitution, exercise of the right of self-determination in the centre of Europe. I am not going to continue, it is not a question of entering this debate now because I do not want to be distracted by other things that you have told me and that I want to answer you. Article 135 clearly deprives the Basque Country of its competence because we have all limited ourselves and Spain's sovereignty has also been limited in that sense, but you know that relations with the State in the fiscal and economic fields are regulated through the Economic Concert, an additional first provision. That requires bilaterality. Mr Montoro should not come and tell the Basque Government: you have so much deficit. No, no, we must bring the Commission together and agree with the two administrations, and you have never convened it. I therefore respect the law, Mr President. Previously there was so much talk of legality, respect for legality, but the first additional provision and the Economic Concert is charged with applying Article 135. I know that everyone loses sovereignty, we too are willing to lose competences, but things have to be done as they have to be done. I therefore respect the outside system and, if not, do not say that it complies with the legislation, because it is not. Market unity is not good... Yes, of course, but here the question is who regulates and if we agree, because, again, we face legality. If you get to change the statute, you said: Change the Spanish Constitution, take the whole mechanism forward, you may be able to pass certain regulations in the Market Unity Act. But as long as the statute does not change, a law cannot be imposed on the statute, because it is an organic and, moreover, endorsed law. It cannot be and you are doing it again and again, and the Constitutional has come to say that, despite being directly ordered in the Constitution, the statutes of autonomy are more or less an organic law. That is to destroy the state of autonomy because the pact that was then reached serves no purpose, because you do and undo. That is what they intend to do with this law and so many others who are in that agreement. Concert law. He tells us: We have arranged some taxes. In Basque, strictly speaking, these concerts appear in the sphere of the State and must be concluded with the autonomous community. Again, first additional provision and Economic Concert. Of course, it's just that they have to be arranged. Don't tell me you did us a favor. We have agreed very hard, Minister. What's more, you and I still have to talk about the electric deficit that's gone or not? If it's gone, the state is doing a few things wrong. We'll have to talk about it slowly. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, because the generosity of the state and then how it interprets its laws... Seek collaboration with your Government. Do you think that not answering the lehendakari, after every meeting you've had with him to say no to the things he proposed to you, but when you ask him and ask him specific things is collaborating with the Basque Government? Is that what you call collaboration? I honestly don't think so. To the relationship the Minister of the Interior has had with our Home Office? Some intermediate positions may have had a good relationship, but the minister's relationship with the counselor I would say has been non-existent, not even on the phone. He may have too much range to speak directly to a counselor. Recentralization. He tells me there's nothing wrong here. It does because, over and over again, in the agreements they make and throughout the last legislature, they create bodies and commissions that are to monitor, coordinate and impose policies. On what topics? About the state? That's why they don't need organisms. They create them to mediatize the autonomous communities. That has been the case over and over again during the last parliamentary term and I have already given you a few examples but there is more in the agreement you have signed with Citizens. There has been conflict, such as municipal law. He said: We have reached an agreement. It already cost us our group to keep it and you needed a travel companion because if you didn't get too used to that law. It's already taken us to keep that reserve of forality. But what have they done? Once the development of the law in the Basque Parliament in the development of the municipal law has been approved, they go and resort to it, as it could not otherwise be. Because, I insist, the government delegate in the Basque Country, a law that is passed, a law that appeals. The Basque Parliament is going to do... some Basques. What are you talking about? That the Basque Parliament pass laws to the benefit of some cows and to the detriment of others? What has come to say has been that; we resorted to laws in defense of some Basques, some Basque citizens. Listen, no, the Basque Parliament imagines that it legislates for everyone, doesn't it? And if you can legislate on worthy death or on, I don't care, municipal law or any other law, it will affect all citizens alike. The State. How much have you told me? Do you know what the real investments of the state have been? Because, in any case, if Ports has done something, it has done it with its own resources. Do you know what the state's investments have been? What was planned for Adif, who of 231 million have yielded 57.. say their own documents; in 1995, instead of 231 million, 57. And then, of the rest, you know what it was? They're still spending it on reforming the units, well, the state offices, that is, a remodeling of the building or buildings. That has been the state's spending in the Basque Country. Nor does it add up the quantities, as did the Minister Pastor, who is advancing the Basque Government to make one of the branches of the Basque Y. Because these amounts are being put by the Basque Government and, for now, as you do not liquidate a quota, here you have not yet put a euro. I mean, that's on the bill. In the account I assure you it is pointed, not in the ice bar, but still unpaid, so don't point those amounts at me. Do I support industry and innovation? Of course, yes, but I support industry and innovation, more than you, the Basque Government. And of course there are some companies that go to grants, contests, etc. Yeah, sure, normal. I've made a reasoned, well-founded relationship. I have tried sincerely to explain to you what the vision is and how we feel about that option of government. If that's not your concern It seems that not because he has neither sought our acquiescence nor that we do not feel disturbed, it is a decision that I can understand perfectly, it is a political decision that I will have to accept. But I don't think that's how we're going to solve anything in the future. And what I really find surprising is the subject of the fifth budget. Indeed, you approved a fifth budget that you should not have approved because what had to have happened is something that has not happened, that the four great Spanish patriotic parties, which are parties that think of that great Spain and are very patriotic, had to have agreed and there had to have been a government since January. But here is something that does not carbide in this great nation, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u84	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief in this second speech to reply to what we have just heard from Mr Esteban. I can share with you the last of your statements. No doubt it would have been better for everyone than after the elections of 20 December, general elections, we would have been able to form a government, but the formation of a government was not only the obligation of the Socialist Party, Podemos, Citizens and the People's Party, because in this House there are more political forces; in this House as a whole national sovereignty is represented and you also represent the whole of national sovereignty, you represent even Pontevedra. Therefore, you also have a responsibility in the formation of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I'm given a role, but I'm not willing to give a battle, let alone prolong it in time. on the number of laws we have passed with their valuable support. It says here that there are 56, because it is not only bills, but also real decree-laws and bills that come from real decree-laws. In any case, if you want, for you this battle. Mr. Esteban, some of the things you said about the concert and the cup are true. But the same has happened with the autonomous funding model. We have experienced a stage in which, from the point of view of the State's revenue and the situation of the general budgets of the State, we were not in a situation of normality; moreover, we were in a situation of absolute abnormality. Many administrations complained that they did not have the resources to meet all the demands of the citizens, but this was also the economic crisis that we have experienced in Spain over the last few years. We're talking about people's economic problems. The most important things, we talk about the lack of credit, we talk about unemployment; without a doubt, all of them fundamental matters for the people, but also the public administrations lived hardships. In two years, as I have already mentioned on some occasions in this House, €70 billion in collection was lost. Please note, at the end of 2015 Spanish public administrations are not yet collecting what was being collected at the end of 2007, because in the years 2008-2009 public revenues fell by 70 billion. We have been slowly recovering, the years 2014 and 2015 things were better, but still today we have not been able to recover the level of income that we had in 2007, and in the meantime pensions rise by more than a million people and rise from 97 billion euros to almost 130 billion euros. Of course, this is suffered by all; it is suffered by the quota, it is suffered by the autonomous financing, the financing of the various territorial administrations, it is suffered by the municipalities and the general budgets of the State. But that is not an attack on anyone, nor is it going against anyone's skills, nor does it show any sense of annoyance, that is an attempt to make us all together able to overcome an economic crisis like the one we have unfortunately experienced. On the subject of my statement that I did not quote the Basque Nationalist Party yesterday, you tell me about some of the statements I made regarding what is happening in Catalonia. I have to say that I have not had a debate with the Catalans. I have a debate with Catalan independenceists; that is, there is everything in Catalonia, as I suppose there will be everywhere. And you talk about feelings. I remembered what I said to En Marea's spokesperson this morning about feelings. It is important to respect the feelings of others, I have no doubt at all, but it is also very important that others respect the feelings of others, that is fundamental, and of course what is crucial is that we do not make a confrontation between my feeling and their feeling, because that is a very complicated procedure for building and doing positive things in the future. Better, arguments and reasons, for the very human and proper of the people who are the feelings, Mr Esteban. [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, quite frankly, I repeat that I believe that you have not been optimistic today; moreover, if I may say so, you have not been realistic either. There are two things I would like to say in this regard. One, about the Spanish autonomic model. When the Spanish Constitution was adopted in 1978 the distribution of Spanish public expenditure was 88% the Government of Spain, 12% of public expenditure the municipalities and the autonomous communities, zero. Today, the Government of Spain, which I am currently chairing, spends 20% of the total Spanish public expenditure, if it removes the pension chapter, and a significant part are transfers to the autonomous communities and local corporations. That is to say, the change that has taken place in Spain in recent years, the political and administrative decentralization that has taken place in Spain in recent years is something that has not been compared. And, in the case of the Basque Country, there is no stage in history where there is a level of self-government like that which exists today, Mr. Esteban, and there is no place in the world, at least that I know of, with a level of self-government like that of the Basque Country. We have all supported it in this House, where national sovereignty is represented. And indeed, the transitional provision to which you have referred is so because we have all wanted it, but having competence in law and order, having competence in security matters, having competence in finance matters, managing all the basic public services is certainly not on the agenda in any country in the world. As far as I know, he's not in any of them. The second comment I want to make is on the economic situation, social policy and people's attention. You talk about cuts, but what would you do if you met 70 billion euros less and had to go to the markets for credit and didn't give it to them? I remember what was happening in Spain in 2012. There were many territorial administrations that could not go to markets, but the Government itself had enormous difficulties in doing so and the interest rates that were paid were certainly not very stimulating. It was a very difficult stage and that is why I am in favour of the principle of budgetary stability. It is no longer an economic principle, but a principle of common sense. Do not spend what you do not enter, even spend a little less than what you enter, so in the end it will always go well in life. So, Mr. Esteban, I can't share that. I believe that in a situation of extreme difficulty we have been gradually recovering the economy. We've been able to maintain it and it wasn't easy. the major basic public services and, as I said this morning, I think we can be proud of them. The same is true in their land, in the Basque Country. Exports have made a very important leap forward and that is very positive. It's produced, it's brought out money, it's sold out and people work at home. So, with a little less criticism and a little more adaptation to what reality is, we can work together we don't know when and we don't know whether or not. I hope so and soon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u86	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u87	Mr. candidate, I hope that you too will adapt to reality, because I think I have made it quite clear to you what the vision of the majority party of Euskadi is on specific issues that affect many of your ministries. Just two things. One is that you will not be able to say that in Euskadi we are taking the issue of deficit seriously. We have always complied rigorously, we have been serious managers and we have managed the budgets. What would we do in case of attention to people? For exactly what we have done: care for social services and bet on education, health and a social wage, as we have done in Euskadi. That's what we'd do. The second thing I wanted to say to you is that you talk about how the state of self-government began in terms of spending and how it is now. Obviously I will not deny that, but you are talking in terms of spending and in terms of spending can be administrative decentralization. If something had the autonomy state, it was the decision-making capacity of the autonomy. If the State decides how to spend, autonomy in the end does not really have political autonomy. You will have an administrative decentralization and towards that point is where you are heading the State without changing the letter of the Statute of Autonomy. And what am I going to tell you about the spirit of the political pact? That's worrisome. Don't talk to me about spending more. Of course, there is greater expenditure on the part of all the autonomous communities, but there is less and less decision-making capacity through the basic laws of the State and the bodies that are being created, and that means the elimination of the political autonomy that was the basis of the State's autonomy at the beginning of the 1978 Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u88	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. It is true that the Basque Government has met the deficit requirements and that this has been very positive for the Basque Government and for the whole of Spain, as has the Government of the Canary Islands and the Government of my land, Galicia. It is certainly something that is enshrined in the Constitution, but, as I have said repeatedly in this House, it is a basic principle of common sense and also a basic principle from the economic point of view that gives a great deal of credibility to those who are able to comply with it. I have no problem in recognizing it plainly and plainly, because it is absolutely true and I encourage you to continue to do so in the future. What I no longer agree with is what you say about autonomy, among other things because you have the ability to collect one hundred percent of your income and to set the tax rates. I don't remember at this time whether with some limitation or not. That's very important, it gives a huge margin of manoeuvre. I'm afraid there are few places in the world where there's autonomy like that. What you have, as you have others, but with easier handling, are the limitations of spending, which are the limitations of Article 135 of the Constitution, but you have them in the same way as Bavaria has them, in the same way as Spain has them or in the same way as France, Germany and Italy have them. That is one of the basic principles of the European Union and, as I have told you logically, to integrate into the great superstructure that is Europe certainly has its positive parts, but it cannot do one all that it considers appropriate and desirable. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo utters words that are not perceived]] Now, yes, but the most obvious case is that we are in the euro and we cannot do monetary policy or foreign exchange policy. Look, maybe it would have been good for us, or not, I don't know yet. to have the possibility of making monetary policy that we would have considered appropriate and desirable in the years 2012 and 2013. Finally, that is another matter that is not to be dealt with here today; perhaps another day we can do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u90	Next, we will start with the interventions of the formations integrated into the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr. Homs Molist has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Government and candidate for the Presidency of the Government, good afternoon. On behalf of the Catalan Democratic Party, I take the floor to fix our position in this investiture debate. I will structure my speech on the basis of three considerations in relation to the same debate: firstly, on the pact signed between the People's Party and the citizens, that is, on the investiture programme presented to us; secondly, on the reasons that you put forward for it to be the one presiding over the Government, and thirdly, on the need to build an alternative and avoid At least in our judgment. a third election. With regard to the first of the considerations that I have announced to you, which is with regard to the content of the programme that you, the People's Party with Citizens, have agreed, if you wish, I can give you a full written analysis, Mr Rajoy, of what our opinion is with regard to this pact, but in summary I would say the following. First of all, in our view, it is a clearly re-centralizing programme; it does not respect the principle of political autonomy or the principle of financial autonomy of the autonomous communities; in fact, it culminates in the covert reform of the Constitution, which in fact began long ago and in what way you are culminating. In fact, you are reforming the Constitution through the back door and do not have the courage to say it and publicly recognize it. Secondly, this pact has a number of quotation marks. a Catalan package that rather looks like a "mazazazzo" against Catalonia. The Affront to Linguistic Immersion I put this example which is paradoxical to us. and the Catalan language itself represents acting against the strongest and most transversal will that exists and has ever existed in Catalonia. They camouflage it with English, ignoring precisely that Catalonia is of the communities where the level of knowledge of this language is of the highest and precisely thanks to an educational model that you want to carry. Do not act on this subject, I ask you, Mr Rajoy, with your stomachs, to reach out to the educational community and to common sense. Thirdly, it is an inconcrete programme, particularly in the area of income and spending commitments; it is even more inconcrete than the one presented by the Socialist and Citizens' Party a few months ago. You really, gentlemen of Citizens, have a record funeral: two successive failed investment pacts in five months. This has never been done by anyone in Spain in these times of democracy. I don't know, just as if in the next investiture session you stay at home you make the government you say so much you want. Fourthly, this pact can also be judged by what you do not say, Mr Rajoy. It does not compromise a single concrete response to major emergencies that we all have on the table, as they are simply by way of example: the sustainability of pensions, energy poverty, refugees, the unsustainable situation of Cercanías Renfe, agriculture and the environment, equality of men and women, the interprofessional minimum wage or cultural VAT, among others. In short, it is a program that we not only do not share but, if approved, we would fight it with all our strength. Second, on the political reasons given in your speech for you to preside over the Government. Yesterday, really, Mr. Rajoy, according to our opinion, he got over it. His thesis in synthesis is either me or chaos. Surely, the best we can do among all is to buy him a mirror and see if he realizes that chaos is you, chaos is you. Yes, the problem is you, gentlemen of the People's Party. You are primarily responsible for the mismanagement situation we have, which you have. You are primarily responsible for the political tension in Spain, and this week you will spend what you have wanted, tried and tried to avoid during all these months. You will be devoured by yourselves, by your speculations, by your inability to convince, by your aggressiveness with which we think differently, and by your immoral and unethical abuse of power that you have exercised during your time of recent government. [[Applauds]] By the way, you will not escape to give explanations for the actions of your Minister of the Interior, who not only tried to use the powers of the State to succeed in persecuting those we think differently, but it seems that you have even used extortion and the threat to achieve your goals. Have you been aware of all this, Mr. Rajoy? Have you taken measures or are you planning to take them in the face of what has been known these last times and even these last days? Are you aware of the gravity of what you are getting to know and are we getting to know each other? Tomorrow we will formalise, Mr Rajoy, the first criminal complaint that will be filed against the Minister of the Interior on this matter. [[Applauds]] We hope that justice will be done, because you are incapable of correcting your attitude, by the way, particularly in this area, nothing democratic. Yesterday he told us, and he repeated it today. that there is no greater harm to institutions than having to repeat elections. Do you plan to assume some kind of responsibility if you don't get this week invested as President of the Government? And if you don't assume responsibilities because no one will, I imagine, why, at least, don't you explain the whole truth? If you got the investiture, as you beg, and you know perfectly well what I'll tell you, then how would you rule? With whom would I approve the budget? What about the spending ceiling? What about the laws of your government? Would you also ask the PSOE to abstain? Do you not really realize that your problem is not just the investiture, that you do not have the majority to have a stable or lasting or strong government, which were the adjectives you used yesterday to define what you need today Spain? Why don't you tell the whole truth to the Spaniards? You know that the least difficult thing you have ahead of you is your investiture, which is already chimerica, as you are seeing throughout today, what is in fact completely impossible in any of the circumstances is that you, the People's Party, can offer a stable, lasting and strong government. This isn't, and you know it, Mr. Rajoy. At your fingertips. They've broken so many bridges with so many people and yesterday more if it fits which places them in the political inviolability to govern Spain I believe, sincerely. For a long time. In this sense, Mr Rajoy, you have lost and in what way by your performance. You've long lost and you're actually losing every day, and the worst part is you don't seem to notice. You are mistaken for being first to win and in a democratic and parliamentary system to win is to be able to make government, and I tell you from experience. And you cannot and will not govern, let alone with a lasting, stable and strong government, as you mentioned yesterday. By the way, I would like to make a mandatory reference to your intervention yesterday on the question of Catalonia. Not only did it show political incapacity and contempt for what millions of Catalans defend peacefully and democratically, but it was placed in the limbo of the unreal. Catalonia, Mr Rajoy, is a nation, is a political subject and has the right, as all the nations of the world have, to decide freely and peacefully its future. Like it or not, like it or not. [[Applauds]] I was surprised by your argument so defensive in this matter, I honestly tell you. Curiously, he cited the Constitution of Cadiz of 1812 to claim Spain's national sovereignty and affirm in a way, by the way, vehemently that it was then that the Spaniards ceased to be subjects and became citizens. It has its grace!, in that Constitution it was literally said in article 10 that the Spanish territory comprises on the Aragon Peninsula, Asturias, Castile the Old, Castile the New, Catalonia, etc. In North America, New Spain, Guatemala, Cuba, Santo Domingo, Puerto Rico, etc. In South America, Venezuela, Peru, Chile, etc. In Asia, the Philippines, etc. All this was then, Mr Rajoy, Spain and I assume that now you do not claim the national sovereignty of all these territories, I imagine. You see, Mr Rajoy, that far from what you said yesterday about what has been collected by successive constitutions regarding the one and indivisible sovereignty of Spain, what has happened is that you have been less and less and that Catalonia in this sense as history shows and as the present demonstrates It can also be a new independent country that will ultimately enjoy its full recognition. Mr Rajoy, I have already held on other occasions that the trembling language completely alien to the liberal tradition of modern Europe does not allow any dialogue to be established or any agreement to be reached or any kind of deliberation to begin. It is well known that Catalonia has openly moved from a reactive attitude to a proposal. What day and at what time will you, apart from being lords of the not absolutely everything Catalonia proposes, make a proposal that can be receptive to most people in Catalonia? I will make the last consideration and with this I finish, Madam President, to adjust to the time. on the need to build an alternative and avoid a third election. Obviously, this message is not intended for you, Mr Rajoy, who in relation to Catalonia has hung the closed sign for political incapacity. This message is addressed to those who maintain the key of the legislature, which is Mr Sánchez and the PSOE, as a few months ago. Socialists, I said it in March and I repeat it literally today, we are ready to contribute to a real change and that there may be a government in Spain. What is crucial is not the assessment that Mr Rajoy, the People's Party or the media can make, but that there is the will and courage to try and then do so. You know, Mr Sánchez, that without assuming the Catalan question there will be no government now or after, and that Mariano Rajoy's speech yesterday has no consequence but to make it impossible for himself to have a strong, stable and lasting government, as he himself defended. Rajoy has used Catalonia, has simply done this, to press you and results Paradoxes of life who will be most harmed will definitely be himself, the inability to be able to make politics in these coming times in Spain. Mr. Rajoy is a real self-doubt what you've done. Let's get to the point, Mr Sánchez, and I'm done, Madam President. I repeat literally what I said to you a few months ago, if you consider what has been demanded of 80% of your population since Catalonia, which is the question of the referendum, we would be willing to sit at a table to talk about a government of real change in Spain. From Monday you will have the initiative and also all the pressures of the world, we already know and you know it too. For the time being, unfortunately, we will continue to see a government in office that neither does nor lets go because, like the majority in this House, Mr Rajoy, we will vote no to its investiture. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u92	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Sitting up there at the heights, where some have placed the Joint Group, being, as we are, the fifth group of the House with 19 Members and representing 1,300,000 votes, I say that sitting up there has some advantages. There is a magnificent view of the House and the truth is that yesterday afternoon the vision gave us a view of a few faces of boredom, even some boisterousness; today it has been more warrior. His speech yesterday was self-complacent, predictable, boring, soulless. It seems sincerely, Mr Rajoy, that you do not want to win this investiture, you want to vote for Christmas, yes? I think so, I think so. There are three statements that I would like to rebut and nuance from your speech. The first statement: there is an urgent need for government. Of course, it is urgent to have a government, but it is not essential that the government be the PP, it can be another government, of course. The second statement: the Spaniards have chosen, they have said to govern the PP. Look, the citizens have chosen this House; this is a plural, multilingual, plurinational House, that's what the citizens voted for, and you don't seem to understand it with your racist and centralist speech. The third statement is: our alternative is the only viable and reasonable one. All the alternatives are reasonable, Mr Rajoy, because they are endorsed by the citizens' votes, and the votes of any formation represented here are as legitimate as yours. Therefore, it will be feasible and reasonable for those who have more votes in favour and less against, which seems to be what is not right for you. And now I'm gonna try to explain our no. Francesc Eiximenis was a Franciscan friar who lived in the 14th century at the Court of Aragon and defined corruption over 600 years ago, long before the People's Party and Citizens began to want to define it. It was very clear: stealing from the community is worse than stealing from anyone in singular. I mean, stealing from the community is worse than stealing from someone in singular. And that is why, because this pact involves a covert amnesty for the corruption of your party, Mr Rajoy, a party that is imputed, a party that has all its imputed treasurers, a party that destroys evidence, a party that has won elections with money from all, just for that reason alone would be enough reason not to vote for you, Mr Rajoy. But obviously there are more reasons. There's a song that I really like about Joan Manuel Serrat who comes to say something like that. I won't say it exactly: between these gentlemen and I there's something personal. I have nothing personal with you, really, I mean it very seriously; it's just that I don't trust your word. He failed to fulfil so many electoral promises: that he would not raise taxes, that he would not raise VAT, that he would not touch health, that he would not touch education, that he would not reduce dismissal; he failed to fulfil his promise with the Valencians when he said in the 2011 campaign solemnly: when the PP governs, the discrimination of the Valencian Community will end. See if you have failed, Mr. Rajoy, that yesterday the President of the Valencian People's Party, Mrs. Bonig, dared to say, and I say dared to say, which promised us an improvement in financing for Valencians if Compromís abstained. It's absolutely intolerable. Can you be more hypocritical? In addition to explicitly recognizing that we are underfunded, that you have done nothing in four years when you had absolute majority and that therefore you failed to fulfil your promise, the offer has an absolutely unacceptable blackmail tuft. What will happen if we do not abstain, if we vote against it? Is he gonna punish us? The Valencians are the fourth economy of the State, the second autonomous community in exports, the fourth most populated autonomous community, and you instead of helping us, that is, instead of helping the Spanish economy, have continued and continue to maintain our fiscal deficit vis-à-vis the State. It maintains in this agreement the indefinite in time and allocation for the Mediterranean corridor, which it does not do with other projects. None of Valencia's or Central Park's program contract. You have failed and want to continue to fail the Valencians. How can we trust him, Mr. Rajoy? There is another stanza of the same song that asks: How did they become what they are and who do they serve when they raise their flags? There's the crux of the matter, Mr. Rajoy, who do you serve? I am afraid that with your agreement it is clear that they serve the same ones that have already served in the previous legislature. All you have to do is look at their agreements not to raise the interprofessional minimum wage and in return to subsidize the wages of all Spaniards with money. It does not suppress the pharmaceutical co-op, it does not repeal the law, it continues to maintain austerity policies, it does not say anything about guaranteed income or energy poverty, it continues to try to extend the retirement age and it has barely devoted two seconds to climate change. All the covenants have a name, in fact you have made mention and here you have overflew the Guisando Bulls Pact. In Compromis we launched the Prado Agreement just at the end of the previous legislature and this is a pact that has no name, or has a very generic name: 150 commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to baptize this covenant; I would call it the agreement of the Gatopardo, in honor of Guiseppe Tomasi de Lampedusa, and I would remember that famous phrase: Something needs to change to keep everything the same. Ladies and gentlemen, 150 commitments to improve Spain so that the good ones continue to govern, of course, even if they fail to meet the deficit goal always, even though they have raised the debt to their record, even though they have emptied the pension fund, but they are the good ones. Well, Compromis is not going to vote for this Gatopardo agreement, because we want everything to change so that nothing remains the same. And so that everything will change, so that nothing will remain the same, so that the new time will be born at once, and now I will turn here. You have to scare the resignation away. There's fair numbers, complicated numbers, but they do. We have to make an effort, we need will, we need generosity, we need intelligence and we need to take a look, and all those who will vote today do not have a moral obligation to our voters and our citizens: to build an alternative for change, to make Mr Rajoy take a well-deserved vacation. That is why all those who want to regenerate this country must be courageous and consistent with our ideology. Fear always paralyzes those who have scruples and frees the hands of those who do not have them. What will people think of politicians who do not have the courage to carry their ideas forward by tactics, by partisan interests? What will people think of us if we are not able to make their illusions possible, if we are only looking back at our own interests? I've got 30 seconds left. It is time to start building a change without waiting for the Basque or Galician elections, without speculating how it would go in a new election. It is time to put on the batteries to rescue people, to regenerate politics and to articulate a new territorial policy, and for that are here the four vows of Commitments. Opportunities pass very rarely. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish with a sentence from Robert Anthony: The opposite of courage is not cowardice, it is conformity. And we, the Compromises, don't settle. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u94	I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u95	Sweep on, good afternoon. After the repetition of the elections the social majority in Euskal Herria... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u96	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u97	... calls for real and profound changes. And we, who aspire to represent all the people who, whether we vote or not, have made a majority of that bet for the breakup, are willing to make the cry of Basque citizenship heard for change, a change that in the first instance requires the eviction of the People's Party, Mr Rajoy, and above all of its anti-social policies. The last four years of the PP government have been characterized by denial, imposition, precariousness, and I have said it many times and will not tire out, inequality, poverty, cuts, austerity and the priority of the deficit. All this, in practice, has meant a drastic loss of social, civil and political rights, an unprecedented setback in social and economic progress, achieved with long and hard years of struggle on the part of the working class, a working class that has seen how from the public authorities have directly attacked their rights for the benefit of large companies and banking, which far from showing a committed action with the territory and its people, have shown their true essence and their inexhaustible desire for profit, at the cost of condemning poverty and exclusion to broad sections of the population. For all this, it is urgent and necessary to evict the PP of the government, since Basque citizenship is also Spanish. He does not deserve an unworthy government like the current one. But let no one be duped; Euskal Herria Bildu is not satisfied with evicting from the government the retrograde policies of the PP; together with this he demands a real change, and in order for an alternative government to qualify as such there are a number of essential issues. First, the recognition of the right to decide on Basque citizenship, as well as the rest of the nations of the State, and respect for what they decide. This is not just about patriotism more or less effective, this is about more democracy and power for people. Secondly, to put an end to the emergency measures imposed, to change the prison policy, to take decisive steps in favour of the most basic rights of all people, to move forward in the area of peace and normalization and to lay a solid foundation for coexistence. We need to end the current blockade, with a government that advocates immobilism, by refusing to acknowledge the progress of recent years and by obstinately pursuing a policy of revenge and repression that is leaving it isolated in the international community, so that we can have a government that is involved in what is on it, that takes advantage of the scenario to consolidate it and that stops looking for its references in Erdogan or in Uribe. And, thirdly and not least, in order for citizens to perceive an alternative government as of change, it is necessary to restore all the social and labour rights that have been taken away from us in recent decades, not only those that we have lost with the mandates of the PP, also the previous ones, which opened the way to the policies of the People's Party. To all this a social majority in Euskal Herria said on June 26th: That's all right! Euskal Herria Bildu understands that it is up to the political representatives to echo the sense of citizenship and wants to do so with a country vision, working hand in hand with other political formations. That majority that asks us for changes, wants to own its future and is witnessing the innumerable attempts by the Spanish government in turn to narrow down the already limited powers and areas of decision that the current system offers us to achieve by way of Constitutional Court. that which is impossible for him to achieve through electoral support. We need and deserve all the sovereignty that allows us to make decisions that contribute to the improvement of the day-to-day citizenship, to act contrary to what is being done by the right in broad areas, to offer youth a better alternative than emigration, the resources necessary to meet their vital needs to our elders, a decent job and equal opportunities for women. Ultimately, more dignity in the life of citizens in general. For all this, it is urgent to evict the People's Party and to bet on other governments, on other policies. Let's get out of the way. They've been mentioned today. An endless number of laws, which seem to mention less in recent months, and which have seriously violated our rights. Regrettably, we are aware that claiming that in Spain a majority in favour of this is more than unlikely to be possible, even though we are increasingly saying that we are defending the right to decide. What we hope is that if that defence is sincere, given the evidence that this real change is not going to be possible, it will clearly bet to do that path where it is, both in Euskal Herria and Catalonia, and for that we have an opportunity in Galicia and in the Basque Autonomous Community to start doing that path in the elections on 25 September, because the June elections have been only the first part. It's known that it's harder to win outside the house. Now it's up to us to play at home, where the hobby is more delivered and shows us what your bet is more strongly. A majority claim to participate in the decisions of their future, of which they affect it. That is why, and with the energies put on our people, we are going to say clearly no to Mr Rajoy today, and it is going to be said by the citizens even clearer on June 25th. I'm done with this, too. We tell those who want to go that way with us that we have the hand stretched out to walk together towards a future based on social justice, rights for all people. On the table there is already a proposal for dialogue and agreement to the majority in Euskal Herria made by who it is, was and will be, despite who despite it, our candidate for lehendakari, Mr Arnaldo Otegi, so that sooner than later we climb to this stage as a country to defend the feeling of those agreements that respond to the majority of Basque citizens, because in the face of the unity of Spain that we demand we will demand country agreements, because where you defend the support of the 1978 regime, at any price, we seek to overflow it, overcome it, to bring more democracy and social justice. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u98	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u99	Madam President of the Congress of Deputies, Mr President of the Government of Spain in office, members of the executive team, deputies, deputies, very good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank both the People's Party and Citizens, the PAR, the Asturias Forum and the Canary Coalition for their efforts, together with the Union of the Navarro People, to unlock this country. Ladies and gentlemen, since the last seat, there, almost in the henhouse, where we have been put by some of the Joint Group, I have been listening to the debate right now and I have to say that the perception is that this is a nightmare, that most of the messages that have been moved here are not at all the messages that this country needs, and that in the end the Spaniards are going to understand de facto what it is to go up to the rostrum and that everything is simply to fly the flag of the political parties that we each represent and, secondly, to confront us from ideological prejudices. So, in that way, we go directly to a disaster, and when we get to it we will act by blaming each other in a magnificent exercise of political cynicism. Ladies and gentlemen, an investiture debate is a start, it is a forward look, it is a new stage and, under no circumstances, it is. I ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen: What are we doing another week in this Congress? What are we doing? And the answer is tremendously harsh, ladies and gentlemen. If we stick together and analyse the mission for which the 350 Members are here, the work we have done is a shame. It is also a shame since the 21st of December. How are we not going to understand that on the street we are called cynics or to perform an exercise of cynicism if in the two previous electoral campaigns we have repeated again and again that this time yes, that now yes, that this time we did understand and listen to the people, the people of the street, that this time we did understand the tiredness of citizenship, that this time we were going to face the urgent reforms that this country needs at such an exceptional time, and that this time we were definitely going to end corruption. Well, we have shown once again in this investiture debate as well. I don't think so this time either. We're defrauding society, we're getting away from it. Fortunately, people on the street are not as polarized as we are here in this Chamber. Because this attitude is so tiring and racy, the only thing that causes it is to impoverish the debate, the politics with capitals, especially those people who preceded us in the history of this Congress of Deputies. Because we've replaced it and we're responsible. The debate of ideas, which is the great policy, for reiterating empty strips, clichés and slogans. That's what ultimately defuses us of society. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we should make the social, institutional and economic reforms of this society in a key context such as the uncertainty of the future of the European Union, the rise of populism, the rise of nationalism. Here the Navarros, ladies and gentlemen, we could have hours of debate on what is happening at this time in the Foral Government with populism and nationalism hand in hand to unwind, as they have unwinded.. because it is the only thing that unites them... a Union of the Navarro People. Furthermore, we are not giving the size to the threat of international terrorism, ladies and gentlemen. How closely do the cataracts have to be so that we start rowing in the opposite direction? Ladies and gentlemen, I am not naive. Four years ago I took the step with all humility to try to improve the community, in Navarre, and I also did so from the leadership, specifically, of social policies and social welfare. And I learned from forced marches to yield, to compromise to contribute and to negotiate, and I learned from the hand of my comrades of the Union of the Navarro People and my political opponents, of the Socialist Party of Navarra, that when there is a common value, as it is now in Navarra. It's beneficial to do things together. We shipwrecks are people of our word, people engaged. That is why the pity is that Mr Sánchez is not here, please, if you can communicate it to him I would thank him, I encourage Mr Sánchez to take the model of success that has been the Foral Community of Navarre based on the pact, not only in the last centuries but also in the last twenty-five years of the pact of the Union of the Navarro People with the Socialist Party of Navarre, and let us re-edit those pacts here in Congress. We are going to make the necessary reforms, we are going to legislate, we are going to set up a government and, above all, we are going to make an effective opposition before an indiscriminate blockade. Mr Rajoy, we will certainly vote in favour of your investiture, and we will also make use of the investiture pact that we have with the People's Party in the Navarro People's Union. And what we will demand of you, Mr Rajoy, as you have always done, is the defense of the Navarra Foral Regime, which is ultimately the essence of the Navarro People's Union and, therefore, we will defend the contrasted solidarity of the Navarros with the rest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u100	Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, I consider it necessary at the beginning of my speech to congratulate you on your electoral success and that of the People's Party to which the Forum contributed, modestly, in Asturias, as well as to express the view that Spain, by virtue of the normal functioning of our parliamentary system, should govern the most voted list on 26 June. The systematic sabotages seem to us to be repudiable. Using the second meaning of the RAE to the formation of a government of Spain of the losers of the elections, tricks in which Mr Sánchez is a consummate specialist, also known as Pedro del Hortelano, parodying his noes with the title of the famous comedy of Lope de Vega. But I stress that we reject it today in Congress as we rejected it in 2012 at the General Council of the Principality. We reject them all, in Madrid and in Asturias, when one wins and when one loses, because the political criteria cannot be occasion goods. Having said that, my predecessor in the seat, Enrique Álvarez Sostres, announced from this rostrum in December 2011 his support for his investiture without any counterpart in favour of a new policy of national cohesion, where no region is less than another or not more than the others. Today, I reiterate the Forum's favourable vote to achieve those same goals that are part of the aspirations for progress and well-being of Spanish society and of Asturian society. On this occasion Forum offers you your vote in the framework of a programmatic coalition agreement signed personally by you, and registered with the Central Electoral Board, whose compliance also ensures that the progress of Spain ensures the achievement of the objectives of solidarity and social cohesion between autonomous communities. No one can deny with the official data of the INE, the EPA or SEPE in hand the progress made in Spain by his Government to stop the crisis, first, and start a stage of growth and job creation afterwards. Nor can anyone deny with the same data that national progress has not been distributed territorially in a uniform way, because the gap between autonomous communities has been deepened by unjust or wrong decisions that have placed Asturias at the head of the negative divergence in economic growth and job creation. It's not a simple statistic, it's a dramatic social reality that affects and hurts a million loyal and supportive Spaniards with their country. His Minister of Employment, Fatima Báñez, summarized this picture in the speech given in Gijón less than a month ago with a strong statement: In Spain we have recovered 51% of the employment that destroyed the crisis, in Asturias only 30%. The picture of the gap can be enlarged by adding that in Andalusia they have already recovered 57% of the employment destroyed, almost twice as much as in Asturias with another government, also socialist, in that community. Mr Rajoy, economic recovery must co-honest the principle of economic stability in article 135 of the Constitution with the principles of equality and solidarity in articles 2 and 138, which, being of the same rank as that, have been in the Magna Charter since its promulgation. The imbalances between territories or inequalities between citizens do not arise by chance or will be corrected by magic. The same paths lead inexorably to the same destinations and, that of Asturias in the last twelve years, is none other than that of the deepest decadence of Spain. The coalition agreement signed by Forum with the People's Party To what Mr. Rajoy was not referring yesterday commits national government measures, which also correct inequalities, to address the main causes of the decline in Asturias. With regard to autonomous financing with a new model; with regard to transport and infrastructure, with the conclusion of the South-West motorway, the Oviedo bypass, road access to the ports of Gijón and Avilés and Zalia, with the arrival of the European high-speed railway to Asturias, a project today arrested that the Government of Zapatero has taken away from us by perpetuating a terminal station in León. The coalition commitments also address a number of crucial measures for our industry, coal and energy mining, as well as other specific chapters to strengthen the farms and competitiveness of Asturian farmers, not to mention our mistreated fishermen and the reallocation of the fishing quota to the artisanal fleets. I conclude by saying that Spain needs a government to move quickly towards a horizon that will put an end to the crisis, eliminate inequalities and foster social cohesion. It also requires Asturias to urgently reverse the drift that drags us towards a future of great uncertainty. Dilapidating 2016 with shoe strategies to protect yourself from your electoral debacles or to wear out the rival is a irresponsibility of historical dimension, unusual in Spain and Europe. Mr Rajoy, count on our vote because in Forum, again, we prefer to add up for Spain to win. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u102	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u103	Thank you, Madam President. "It may seem that the other side / is this same; it ends here; / that leaving is getting to the same place. / And that's not true. It's still not true. /' Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to begin my speech with these verses by the Canarian poet Manuel Padorno, which serve so much to illustrate how we feel. It is not true that we have to resign ourselves to this blocking situation in which we remain installed two months after a second election. It's not true that there are no options. There are. They only have to choose one, preferably the one that brings us out of the paralysis and stagnation that this society cannot continue to endure. Either we are responsible and we understand that we have to understand ourselves or we let the time pass as if nothing happened and we return to an election that no one wants, but that you do not avoid. Believe me, I do not repeat myself if I say that this country cannot wait any longer, that the Canary Islands cannot wait no longer, that pensioners, officials, farmers, students, the unemployed who hope to have an opportunity, the young people who dream of a future, the sick, the dependents and their caregivers can no longer wait. We, the canarian nationalists, in exercising our responsibility, have made a decision that has its basis and foundation on what we were asked by those who voted for us; in every place, in every island, in every people we came to, they told us: agree, think about us and defend this land. And that's what we've done. We have been open to dialogue from the very beginning, knowing that in order for us to win all, we must all give in; raising reasonable and consumable matters that happen so that this country recovers the citizens' rights and the social policies necessary for people to get out of despair; exposing the vital issues for the Canary Islands; wanting to recover everything that for justice is ours and that was cancelled four years ago by the People's Party government due to a misunderstood absolute majority and arbitrary criteria. The Canary Islands urgently needs to adopt the economic part of the Economic and Fiscal System, which is ours, the main instrument we have to compensate for insularity and remoteness; a tool to advance on equal terms that will enable us to create jobs and improve the competitiveness of our economy. A law that must be fulfilled, because it is not a privilege, but an act of justice. Fulfilling the REF will recover the public investments of the state, which are not only necessary, but also involve thousands of jobs for people to whom the crisis has driven out of the labour market. And the specific employment plans, which are vital to reshaping the unemployed and giving an opportunity to the women and young people of our land. We also need compliance with the connectivity between the islands and the peninsula; to reduce the costs of transporting passengers and goods; to establish a sufficient share of bluefin tuna for the men who fish our sea and maintain compensation for the primary sector. We need a system of just autonomous funding where all communities receive the same per capita funding for health, for education, for social services. We need to recover an agreement that guarantees the pension system, of course!, but taking into account the non-contributory pensions, which are so important in the Canary Islands. We need the adoption of the Statute of Autonomy, which is already in this House and which has political and social consensus, and we need, as other autonomous communities already do, to exercise coastal powers, a fundamental element in an archipelago. Under no circumstances can the Canary Islands accept a single adjustment more than Europe requires because the state and other communities have failed to meet the deficit. We do, and the Canary Islands can't admit that we have to make adjustments either, as I said. With that will and the common good as a horizon we have sat down to reach an agreement that will allow the governance of this country, as we did almost six months. We then supported the Socialist Party, in keeping with the citizen's mandate that it was necessary to understand why a country could not be ruled only by the absolute majority. For there to be Government there must be negotiation, there must be concessions, but there must also be a profound change in previous policies. It is time to think about citizenship, to have a sense of state, the one we have demonstrated for decades by the Canarian nationalists, representatives of an inclusive, progressive and solidarity project with the rest of the peoples, always willing to add wills so that we can remember that there is a unique land almost 2,000 kilometres away, whose inhabitants cannot and do not deserve to leave their future at the dawn of what the various governments believe. To be understood, a country cannot move forward if there is no justice between its different territories. Today we say yes again, out of responsibility to those who have parked their differences to seek a common point. It is now you, gentlemen of the People's Party, who have in your hand the decision to take a new path, to comply with what has been agreed with the Canary Islands. Now the height of vision and the political height must prevail in order to unlock a situation that has gone from difficult to unsustainable. We owe it to those who have renewed their confidence in us, we owe it to the citizenry and, by responsibility, we owe it to ourselves. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u104	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Candidate, regarding your speech yesterday, you know that my party does not agree with you very much. I have to tell you, he didn't have his best day. By his intervention yesterday, he felt that he was not interested in convincing anyone. He was a triumphalist, with the same ideas, ultra-liberals, which have led to the very clear failure of his policies, as if he preferred a third election, Mr Rajoy, I always have the same feeling, holding others accountable, that is. It is a suspicion that we have since the first minute, that we cannot escape and that yesterday we confirmed, and I have to tell you. The fundamental reason that you have made for us to support your investiture is math; that is, we have about 8 million votes that tell you that you have to be the president. He'll forgive me for the joke, but it's kind of a political-auditory hallucination. It is like telling others that the 13,5 million votes, just as respectable as theirs, bet on political change. The forces that defend political change in Spain have 13.5 million votes. Therefore, it is as if we were told: then it cannot be Mr Rajoy, because it represents something else. Then mathematics does not seem to be the way to solve this issue. What won the elections was the will for political change; another thing is that it is difficult to articulate. But we have no doubt that the will for political change has won, because if you had not lost 49 Members of Parliament in the previous elections. He has lost many voters for two reasons: for his non-compliances and for his party's behaviors. He presented his agreement with Citizens with little precision and clumsily. We missed him explaining a few things to us. We are going to make the accounts: if we add up 28.5 billion euros, which is a lot of money, in social policies, plus 10 billion, in at least two years, of adjustments that the European Union is going to demand, which we are going to accept submissively, without any negotiation, plus no new revenue from the state because there is no tax reform that makes those who have more pay, or you have spoiled the calculator or we have the head. We don't understand the deal. That's a fraud, that can't be done that way. We have forgotten the great public services, to reverse a labor reform that has led to what we all know, to a clear mistreatment of the working class in this country. By the way, you said little about foreign policy, but you made a mention to Morocco that suits us well. We must deepen our relations with Morocco, but you know that the Canary Islands are very concerned about another issue, namely the Sahara. We would have liked to hear that we will support the right to self-determination of the Saharan people in the United Nations and in our policy. That would have calmed us down. With regard to the Canary Islands, if I read the agreement between the Socialist Party and the New Canary Islands, I would understand why we cannot support his proposal. You mentioned yesterday point 123 of the agreement with Citizens in relation to the defense of the REF and said you were going to maintain the same energy policies supporting the Canary Islands as in the previous stage, which put my hair at the top, Mr Rajoy. Let us hope that, among them, there will be no prospecting again. You can't say that, and I'm sorry to say it to you with this cruelty. And we miss something. Mr Montoro has just announced EUR 400 million more for autonomous financing, recognising that the REF was included. He announced it on August 27 in the canarian press and that he does not say it, worries us and forces us to be cautious with you. We can't trust you. You know why? Because in the 2011 investiture speech, you made seven commitments to Canary Islands a lot more than you did yesterday. And he failed them all. I had it easier because you had an absolute majority left over and, moreover, the agreement was of a less centralist nature than it is now; I say this when it comes to understanding the territorial facts. Do you really think that we can trust when, saying that he was defending employment, he liquidated the Canary Islands' Comprehensive Employment Plan or were we at the back of investments in the State's General Budgets once in a while? The nationalists of New Canarias do not want third elections, nor do we want the second elections, but we have to tell you that above all we do not want another bad government like the one you led in the last legislature. The nationalists of New Canarias cannot give our support to him in conscience. We cannot do this for two reasons: because we do not share your policies and, above all, because we do not trust you. We cannot trust you, because it is not reasonable for you not to fulfil one of the commitments you made in the investiture debate and, in addition, to eliminate one of the consolidated rights that the Canary Islands had throughout the recent Spanish democratic history. I regret to say that you cannot count on the support of the Nationalists of New Canarias on this occasion. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u106	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I now give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to the speeches made by the spokesmen of the various political parties just now. It is a matter of responding, first of all, to Mr Homs' speech. I must begin this intervention, Mr Homs, by saying that I do not agree that the pact we have reached with Citizens implies any reform of the Spanish Constitution through the back door. The pact with Citizens is a pact for the future of Spain, it is a pact where diagnoses, approaches and, above all, objectives and measures have been shared to bring them to a successful conclusion and does not imply anything to do with the recentralisation to which you have referred in your intervention. It's not a peacock against Catalonia and, of course, no one acts with the stomach. I am absolutely unable to understand what may be bothering you and your party in relation to the education program we have put forward. It is a program of pure common sense that begins by saying that we promote a national pact for education that has the consensus of political forces, the educational community and social groups. This is the first point in the education pact we agreed last week between Citizens and the People's Party. The second point is the development of a new educational reinforcement programme to combat school failure. I do not know why you may be against this statement. To develop a new Council Plan 3 for children's education, from zero to three years, which will increase the number of places in children's schools; I do not know who is harming this part of the agreement to which I refer at this time. Introduce a quality bilingual and trilingual education in public school to ensure that all our young people are taught English; I do not think of any citizen, whatever his or her way of thinking, or whatever approaches he or she holds on any issue, who can oppose a quality bilingual and trilingual education in public school to ensure that all our young people are taught English. Nor can I understand why he does not like us to establish a free textbook programme, to adopt a statute for teaching staff, to increase resources for middle and vocational education, to be willing to continue to promote dual vocational training, to develop a strategic school co-existence plan or to enable parents to effectively exercise their right to choose the type of education and the school where to school their children. Lisa and quite simply, it seems to me to be a programme for the benefit of citizens as a whole, it seems to me to be a programme of pure common sense and it seems to me to be a programme which is particularly important in the agreement because, without a doubt, as we have pointed out this morning in the various speeches, particularly in which Mr Rivera has made, we are faced with one of the basic priorities for the coming years in our country. Mr Homs, I have never said in this House that it is neither my style nor the terminology I usually use: me or chaos. Moreover, I have stated that there were three possibilities to get out of the blocking situation we are in. One, which I am defending in this House and which I have been defending since 21 December 2015, will not be able to say that I have not been consistent in making my approach, a great coalition of government or a great coalition of parliament. It is obvious that I am now asking for something less. I no longer ask for that great coalition because I have come to the conviction that that is not possible today, but it does seem reasonable to me that the one who has had the most support in the ballot box can at least try to govern to get out of the blocking situation. There is a second possibility, Mr Homs, which is the call for elections, and from what we see, if we have to heed the statements that everyone makes, it seems that no one wants it. And there is a third possibility, which is to which you have referred in your speech, but to me that seems the worst for Spain. It seems to me that it would involve the formation of a Government that would not generate any sort of confidence anywhere and that would carry many dangers to the future of our country. You may feel differently, no doubt it is in your right, but in the same way as I respect the right you have to think what you think is appropriate and convenient, I ask you also to respect the position I have been defending since elections were held in Spain on 20 December. Mr Homs, I cannot accept your statements or your qualifications, such as aggressiveness, abuse of power or trembling language, because it is not fair; Mr Homs, smooth and plain, it is not fair. I think it is much more serious what some of you are defending, such as yourself, which is, plainly and plainly, the liquidation of the Spanish nation, of national sovereignty and the equality of the Spaniards. I believe that this is far more unjust, far harder and far more undemocratic than it is illegal to defend the Spanish Constitution and the majority will of our people as a whole. [[Applauds]] Your Honour, you refer in your speech to what I did or did not do yesterday, to the possibilities we may have to do politics in Catalonia or to the agreements we can reach. I'm not going to discuss that, which is your opinion and, if anything, your party's opinion, which I don't know. But in Catalonia, in addition to your party, there are a lot more people, a lot more, Mr Homs; not only many more Members, but there are almost 7 million people who each vote differently. And, of course, the People's Party has had more deputies on this occasion than on the previous one, and the People's Party in the constituency where more people live has had a result that, of course, no one in the People's Party can speak on behalf of the Catalans, but it would enable you to speak more than you if we take into account the votes that have taken place in the Barcelona constituency. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you should not speak on behalf of the Catalans, you should speak on behalf of your group, as others do. And if I may, since you have given me advice today, I will give you one too. Sometimes in life, I'm all asked for it; I'm not going to sue it, it's advice. It is better to make self-criticism and to see the evolution of the support that one has and to think: I may have been wrong. Believe me that I do it very often; that I should have done it more, but probably it is time for you to do it too. Think about it, Mr. Homs. [[Applauds]] I cannot accept the insinuations, veiled statements, of difficult understanding that you have made here in this House. The only thing I can say, if you were referring to that matter, is that it has been filed by the prosecution; and I, what the prosecution or the judges do, always respect it, because I believe in the judiciary and I believe in the judgments and decisions of the courts, and also of the prosecution. Your Honor, I know I don't have a majority to invest. How can I not know! I also know that I do not have a majority, on the assumption that I am invested, to govern; that at the moment I am not in a position to achieve what I put forward yesterday in this House, which was a stable, lasting, capable and resultant government of the agreement, but what I put forward yesterday in this House is common sense. This is not just about unlocking the situation; that would be a first step. What is really about is having a stable, lasting, capable, and resultant government of the agreement, and you will understand that I come to this House to ask for that. Or what do you want me to ask if I don't? I'll have to ask for that. I don't have enough votes today. I don't know if there's anyone who has enough votes in this House to do it. My party has 137 seats in this House, more than on the previous occasion, after the June 26 elections. They are not enough; it is not possible to be invested or to rule with 137. We've reached an understanding with Citizens this past week. We present ourselves here with 170 supports and a government program agreed. I know it's not enough either, but I know and I think that can't escape anyone. that is a reasonable number of seats to allow government to be formed in Spain and that we do not have to go to elections for the third time. You'll have to agree with me that's the case. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech yesterday I simply expressed my opinion, which is the view that a majority of Spaniards have that we also have the right to express it. It's just that sometimes I give the feeling that you don't say anything, that you don't do anything. Yes, I would give that feeling; the others can't talk. I cannot defend the unity of Spain; I cannot warn that there are things that are not admissible, such as trying to liquidate national sovereignty. That goes against the rights of all Spaniards! Someone's gonna have to tell them something! I have some responsibility and, in this House, everyone. I'd like that all the time. You can't walk around in life all day waving aggravations or flags of victimism. We haven't been the ones who started this operation. It wasn't us. Some self-criticism should do you. Do you think you can tell the Government of Spain that either a referendum is being held or a tax pact is being admitted or we will take the measures that we consider appropriate and convenient, even by skipping the law? It's just that you can't do that. That's undemocratic, Mr. Homs, and that's what I wanted to say yesterday and, honestly, I think I've done very well in doing so and there are a lot of people who will appreciate it. [[Applauds]] Mr. Baldoví, believe me. Because I believe you. I don't have anything personal against you either. That doesn't mean I'm going to ask you for your vote. Of course, I wouldn't protest if you gave it to me, but there doesn't seem to be a chance to have that dilemma. [[Laughter]] I said yesterday that it is urgent to form a government, and I believe it is urgent. You said today that it is not essential for the People's Party to lead that government. And he's right, arithmetically there are other possibilities. I said there are three: one, the call for elections that nobody likes That sounds like it; two, the one we've raised here and then there's another. I just don't think that's good for Spain, nor can it lead to anything positive. I understand that you have a different way of seeing things because everything, fortunately, is opinionable and, of course, all the votes are legitimate. From there, the problem that has that alternative, apart from not agreeing on anything, is that it has a political objective that is not the best to build and besides you have expressed it here probably without realizing it. It's about Mr. Rajoy going on vacation. Man, it's gonna be something else because after I go on vacation, there's gotta be something to do. When it is intended to make policy with these approaches, with these objectives in place, nothing positive can really be built for the benefit of the citizens. In the end, it is built when there are positive shared goals, when there are agreed measures, when there is previously a diagnosis of all this. In the negative, victories can be achieved, they are always perric victories, but the great battles are won when one has clear goals, has determination, wills and courage. That's what I'm telling you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Applauds]] He talked about autonomous financing. No one is in line with the autonomous funding of their community, I don't know anyone. If you know any community president or party member of a community who agrees with the funding that, on the other hand, you have agreed on your day, you tell me; no one. There has been no debate on autonomous financing over these years for a reason that is well understood, Mr Baldoví, because there were other priorities, because there was nothing to contribute positively to any autonomous community, because we had lost €70 billion in revenue. I have also been Vice-President of the Xunta of Galicia and, therefore, I know how these things are negotiated from the other side. many models of autonomous financing and these have always worked on the basis that the State provided more resources. Normally, the debate that was taking place was to see what relative position all communities remained after the provision of new resources. But if we had discussed autonomous financing over the years, the state would not only not be able to provide more resources, but would have to provide less resources simply because there had been a fall in the revenue of €70 billion. See, in the case of the Valencian Community, as you know, the Valencian Government collects Because it is a competition that is reflected in its statute those taxes that were formerly called real rights: heritage transmissions, documented legal acts and successions. Between 2007, which was the year of the biggest economic boom in Spain, and 2011, the collection increased by 2.5 billion euros only in Valencia and by those taxes. EUR 500 million. That's what happened all over Spain. And then he says, you spend less. And what do you want me to do? Because, besides, when you went to markets or banks to ask for money, those 2 billion that you no longer collected, they told you no. There is the origin of the FLA, after some autonomy such as, for example, occurred in the Valencian Community and in others, had to put on the market those famous patriotic bonds. This is what happened. And in a situation like that it is very difficult to put forward a model of autonomous financing and, of course, impossible to approve it. I wish you could. This is one of the deals I made in my speech yesterday. In this legislature to arrive at a model of fair autonomous financing that satisfies everyone, which already announces that it is not easy because people see things differently. Some say that the criterion for distributing resources has to be the number of inhabitants, but some say that other criteria must be used because it is not the same thing to finance education when the population lives scattered as when everyone lives in the same city. The same applies to health care or other public services. It's not an easy subject, you have to do it, no doubt. If I am invested at some point, of course I intend to carry out a reform of the autonomous financing model. Valencia. The Valencian Community has also benefited from the economic policies we have pursued over the past few years. The unemployment rate is falling, the number of people working too, industrial production is growing, the export sector of the Valencian Community is very important, tourism is doing well. It is important to note the collaboration of the Government of Spain, which has injected 43.5 billion euros of liquidity during these years, which have been useful to cover many social attentions and to pay to suppliers. There have been major investments in infrastructure throughout this legislature, more than 3 billion euros; we are betting on the Mediterranean corridor; I myself inaugurated the high-speed train to Alicante, and we are also working. its extension to other cities in the community. Also in ports have been made important works of infrastructures, and on roads; it has been bet by the transfer Tajo-Segura, and an important negotiation has been made for Valencia and other communities of the common agricultural policy. I understand, on the other hand, your position and that you do not support my investiture, as you know very well, it is not something that surprises me, but, in any case, if we in the end continue to govern, we have no more interest that things go well for everyone and in a very special way also for all the people who live in the Valencian Community. Bildu's spokesman, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, has come up here, has been betting on change, and the first point of her policy has been the eviction, which was the expression she used towards me and those who accompany me in the government, and I do not know if also the various members of the People's Party, our antisocial policies and many more. Well, we have different ways of seeing life. It's all been a setback, in your opinion, and it's all been bad news. I honestly can't share it and I don't have much more to add. He also spoke about the right to decide; it is a position that I cannot share because of what it means to deprive the right to decide of the majority of Spanish citizens. And I cannot agree with your position on Mr. Otegi's non-candidacy. It is a decision that the courts have taken, Spain is a country where, fortunately, there is separation of powers, we are a State of law and the judgments of the courts are fulfilled. Nor do many political arguments have to be made different from politicians because he is not the first political leader in Spain who has been disqualified by the courts and who has not been put to the elections, and frankly it does not seem reasonable to me that there are some people who have to comply with the judgments of the courts and others do not; I do not know why they are of better condition. When it comes to justice, we are all equal before the law. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alli, I would like to start by once again affirming my commitment to an outside and Spanish Navarra and to the convention regime. I've always done it and I'll keep doing it in the future. I agree with some of the general statements you made in your speech this afternoon. Sometimes you look little forward. Some of us have done so and presented here an agreed government program and we have defended it. I think that's a lot more positive than looking back. There are others who, in fact, ask for themselves, who pose few alternatives, except for some that are always negative, or who intend to send us to new elections. I have to say that some of us have been defending the same thing since December 21st; every time I do it I see things. with greater conviction, but it's not just up to me. He is very right when he says that the street is much less polarized than the political debate in this House is, and that there are lattices, clichés and slogans left. I agree that what this is about and what is important is to talk about the problems that people care about. Of course, today is a very important problem for us to be able to get out of the strange situation we are experiencing. I also share with you, having overcome many years of difficulty in this matter, that the issue of international terrorism is one of the major threats that we must address. I have to say that we do it and intensively over the coming times. I thank the Navarro People's Union for its loyalty and support in fulfilling its commitments and we will try to be mutually supportive. Mr Martínez Oblanca, thank you for your congratulations on the result you have, like many other Members. his responsibility, for his party contributed to this in the district of Asturias. I don't know if the most voted list has to always be the one that rules. I like it, but in a circumstance like this I see no reasonable alternative to what you have put forward. I agree with national cohesion policies. I said yesterday: We are united, and because we are united we are equal and we are united. I thank him for the economic progress that has been made in this legislature. Macroeconomic data is better, which sometimes seems to not matter; but without good macroeconomic data, there is nothing that reaches people's lives. He referred to an intervention by the Minister of Employment a few days ago in Gijón. They show the data you have presented here today what remains to be done in this country. This country came to have more than 20 million Spaniards working. We lost 3,800,000 jobs in an economic crisis that we are still unable to value. Indeed, we have recovered half of everything that was lost in those years, some communities less than others, that is why it is so important to persevere, that is why it is so important to form a government, that is why it is so important to build trust and that is why it is so important that investors and markets are clear that there is a government in Spain that can be trusted. Your Honor, the People's Party will abide by all the agreements we have signed with you. Infrastructure is still pending. Some have already closed down definitively, others are moving forward, and I have the confidence and the firm will to be able to do so in the future. Mrs Oramas, I would like to thank you and your party for your commitment to dialogue and agreement, because it is true that Spain needs a government. It needs it because we have to consolidate economic recovery, it needs it because there are urgent matters, it needs it because we need the prompt approval of the General Budgets of the State, it needs it because it is anomalous a state of affairs like the one we have at the moment, which tells us that we have been in office for more than eight months now. There are several options. I have tried, with the support of Citizens, to which you too have joined. This is not an effort made in vain. You've made reference to it and I want to reiterate it. certain actions of the Government of the Canary Islands. As I have done before with the Basque Government, meeting the public deficit target has undoubtedly been a very positive fact and one that strengthens us as a country. We have made some commitments to you: that a canary agenda be guaranteed; that we have assumed the objectives of budgetary stability, with a guarantee for public services; that we have assumed the need to make an education pact, which has undoubtedly been one of the most talked about during yesterday's and today's days; that we have entered into an agreement on labour matters and the need to review the Toledo Pact, because we are undoubtedly faced with one of the major challenges of the future; that we have spoken of the outermost status of the Canary Islands as a differential fact of constitutional significance, in a manner similar to that contained in Article 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Our commitment to the economic and fiscal regime is clear and there are already progresses as the agreement itself collects and you know better than I do. and negotiations that we will try to close as quickly as possible. I have spoken before about the system of autonomous financing and, indeed, the principles of autonomy, equality, solidarity and sufficiency are necessary, which is not as easy as I said to Mr Baldoví. It is then translated into an agreement of fifteen with the Government of Spain. A deal is certainly not easy. The next is a subject I know well because at another stage of my political life, when there were more resources and we could have more, I had the opportunity to put some in motion. I know what coastal agreements, hydraulic works, educational infrastructure and roads are. We will try, because of the specificities of the Canary Islands, to put them into operation and equip them sufficiently. There are important energy agreements and of course our commitments to the transport of people and goods remain in place, as well as commitments to the protection of the primary sector in the islands. In short, if in the end we are able to obtain the investiture, I believe that we will be able to cooperate loyally in the interests of the general interests of all, of the Canary Islands and also of the Spanish people as a whole. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply to Mr Quevedo's speech. I've given some reason more than math or arithmetic, but it's important. If any party had 176 seats in this House we wouldn't have to talk about arithmetic anymore, but we have the ones we have and when we talk about that it's reasonable, not so much for mathematical reasons but for principles, that I stand up for having 52 seats more than the second political force. that we have a plus of legitimacy to govern. I think it makes sense for me to defend him. I said that forming a government is urgent. I explained the reasons yesterday, I don't think I need you to repeat it now. I honestly think so. I think that it is also necessary, as you recalled in your speech, for a stable and capable Government, which is the product of agreements and which it can govern. I think it is necessary to do as we have done in the pact that we have brought to this House. that we are able to set objectives and to establish the measures and instruments to achieve them. I honestly think, Mr Quevedo, that the Canary Islands have not had such a bad time in recent years, I sincerely believe, there are many more people working than four years ago; employment is being created at an annual rate of 4%, this is not a joke. There's a 2.8% growth. More than EUR 2.3 billion has been invested in infrastructure. Canary airports are very good and they work very well, Mr Quevedo. We have secured air and sea connectivity. The new planning of the transport and electricity network is and will be essential. I believe that we have met the financial needs of the Canary Islands during this last parliamentary term. Work is also under way on fisheries and agriculture. A regulatory framework for the promotion of renewable energy has been developed. There is no doubt that, as in all facets of life, many outstanding issues remain, but we cannot forget that things have improved in the Canary Islands, and of course in a sector that is the most important, a very substantial part of its gross domestic product, the Canary Islands is spraying all the tourism records of its history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u108	In the turn of the reply, Mr Homs Molist has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office and candidate, four telegraphic considerations. The first is what we do not share in your agreement, for example in the field of education? Very simple. First, it ignores the competences assigned to it by the Generalitat de Catalunya. Second, it goes against linguistic immersion. If not, get out here or from your seat and say otherwise. Are you in favour of or against linguistic immersion in Catalonia? Make it clear. And, third, it keeps Lomce as a reference in terms of the educational model. Or is it that you are committed to changing or nullifying the Lomce? See if we don't share things. Second consideration, on the performance of the Ministry of the Interior and particularly of the Minister of the Interior himself. You think the prosecutor's file is enough, as if the prosecutor's office were a judge. Are you serious about all this? From the D.A., which you can call to fine-tune files? We've heard this in a conversation, and you come and give me the answer you've given me. [[Applauds]] From the prosecutor's office, who is ordered to change his position regarding the accusation of some Catalan politicians, when the prosecutor's office in Catalonia unanimously of the prosecutors who make up the Board of Prosecutors of Catalonia came to the conclusion that for the issue of 9 November 2014 there was no indication of any crime? He was ordered from the Attorney General's Office after a change, as you know well, to change the position of prosecutors in Catalonia. Are you telling me about the real D.A.? Are you talking to me after the separation of powers? Are you talking to me after there's been no abuse of power on your part? Are you really telling me that? [[Applauds]] It seems really unacceptable to me. You have acted on this issue and on some others as you do in a banana republic, and you have caught them and you are going to assume the responsibilities and consequences of how you have acted on this matter, because this really is of the fat things that have happened lately in this country. You have told me that my position, at least so I have understood, is in the "Diary of Sessions", it is less democratic than yours, and I do not accept that, Mr Rajoy. Your political position is as legitimate as mine, as right or as wrong, mine or yours, you know, but yours is not just good, morally good, and mine is just bad, morally bad. I can't accept this. He's given up and there's the bottom of my political criticism. It's been too long to do politics. He's given up on this and that's why he loses, which is why he's not going to take his investiture forward. The investiture, Mr Rajoy, and you know it perfectly well, is not done by approximation but by obtaining more yeses than noes. I thought it was a good metaphor for today's whole session, and I guess the whole week, when you said it literally, I wrote it down: I came to give my opinion. Hey, no. You are the candidate for the Presidency of the Government and you cannot just come to give your opinion, which is very respectable. I respect you and, personally, I have not failed to respect you at any time in my speech, I would miss you any more! But you're not here to give your opinion, you're here to try to make an investiture and you won't get it. In that sense you're a loser, you've lost. And the last consideration. Do we make self-criticism? Yes, and you know me little in that sense. But do you know what's going on? That in Catalonia Since you have previously quoted me in Catalonia and particularly in the province of Barcelona We do self-criticism, a lot. We have 429 mayors and you one. We do a lot of self-criticism in Catalonia, yes, of course. And, by the way, we in Catalonia have government and you don't. Thank you very much and very lucky. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, I do not want you to leave, what I want is for your policies to go, obviously. It seems that you have the monopoly to be a serious person and to make serious, reasonable and moderate policies. I consider myself a serious, reasonable and moderate person. I've been mayor and it's all worked out pretty well. Therefore, you are not the only serious, reasonable, and moderate; here are many serious, reasonable, and moderate people. When he talks about Valencia and says that the Valencian Community has benefited from the policies of the PP, man, I would say that some politicians have benefited more than all citizens. Exports and tourism have increased despite you, because Fomento admits and justifies the corridor's delay. The corridor still doesn't work. Mr Montoro knows that we are underfunded and tells us that he has not had time. What he hasn't had is money. But they had money to make a tax cut before the election. Anyway, there's money for what you want and there's no money for what you don't want. Since I have very little time left and the catapore's pact has the hours counted and will not pass on Saturday, I would like to take these thirty seconds to look here Mr Rajoy will have 180 noes and 170 yeses. [[heads to the Socialist Party's seats]] Surely, if we want to, we are able to draw more yeses than noes. So let's get to work on an alternative that believes less rejection and more empathy, more than the PP has. And to Citizens, a message: if we are able to generate an alternative, would you have the same sense of state, the same seriousness to let govern? I'm asking. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u112	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u113	Mr Rajoy, unlike you, I respect you as a person, you and all the representatives of the People's Party present here. But with the same clarity I say to you that the two representatives of Euskal Herria Bildu in this House are determined to combat their ideas with absolute roundness because we consider them to be pernicious. That's what I meant when I was talking about evicting them. And above all I do it because, although in Euskal Herria many of us have decided to make our way, we hope in the future to have a good neighbourly relationship with the population of the State and we want the best for the people who live in it and, therefore, we believe that they do not deserve rulers who prevent them from living better, as you are doing. And when they have the courage to leave the insults, the booches, the debaucheries or the disregard of us and are willing to do politics with capitals, then, when they want to enter into the confrontation of ideas and projects, know that Euskal Herria Bildu will continue to be there to speak, even from positions as far away as you and I defend. And it'll be to tell you that you're engaged and your party. in deciding on everything that affects us and we, instead, in deciding on absolutely everything that concerns us. You use for that as an argument that in democracy the first thing is the rule of law. And I tell him, and I told Mr Sánchez a few months ago, that democracy is not at the service of the law, it is the law that has to be at the service of democracy. That is why I leave you with a question in the air: is there anything more democratic than what the majority of citizens can decide democratically? I don't think so. You told us yesterday that you come to save the 1978 regime at any cost, that regime that allows you to cheat, to skip all your jurisprudence, with the guarantee of having a Constitutional Court at the service of the government of turn who believes you will give reason on the issue of Otegui. You have assumed that the courts have spoken and have not yet spoken. If the case law is taken into account, Mr Arnaldo Otegui will be not only the candidate, but surely the next lehendakari. Finally, I ask you to take advantage of the trip to Colombia although they may not let you in with that that you announced the date of the agreement when you did not touch it. so that in his conversation with Santos he learns how to deal with problems of silence and reality, as President Santos has done in Colombia, with dialogue and agreement, even with the FARC. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u114	Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, thank you very much for the defense you have always made of Spanish and foreign, foreign and Spanish Navarra. I appreciate that mention you have made and how you have taken note of the words with that institutional respect that you always have. I want to take advantage of this minute and a half that I have left to explain what the Navarro People's Union is. Unión del Pueblo Navarro is the party of the social majority of Navarre, in which we are ideologically liberal in economic terms, we believe in the separation of powers, we respect the Spanish Constitution as the majority of the Navarra society. and we are social democrats in social policies, as we have demonstrated in the last 24 years of the Navarra government, making pioneering policies in Europe in the protection of the most vulnerable people. Twenty-four years of Navarra's government that with the efficient management, the economic agreement, our relationship with the state and the institutional respect of Spain-Navarra, Navarra-Spain, we have managed to bring Navarra to high levels of well-being in terms of health, education, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a party that is against corruption. We have not had a single case of corruption in the Government of Navarre in these twenty-four years of management. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a rare opinion in most communities. We have no private donations to our party. We are a party that we believe in political regeneration and internal mechanisms, to the point that together with the PDC we have been the only parties that have made a primaries to elect the candidates for these last elections. Ladies and gentlemen, I explain all this because as soon as we are able to unlock this situation, let us stop acting and finally get to work, that for that they pay us, I will extend my hand and the hand of UPN so that any initiative, come from the party that comes, that we understand that it is good for shipowners and, therefore, for all Spaniards, has the support of the Navarro People's Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Rajoy, for your words and for your commitment to fully implement the measures that the People's Party and Forum have committed in a transparent manner to the Asturians. I urge you to do so as a matter of urgency, although it is true that this requires Spain to cease to have a government in office as soon as possible. We are in urgent need of a new system of autonomous financing, and I say this to you so that you can understand me without confusion. Forum assumes in its entirety the promises of reform of this unfortunate system promises that you made during the government of Rodriguez Zapatero which has been in force since 2009. Infrastructure is also urgently needed. In 2009 Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero also promised that the AVE would arrive in Oviedo. Good. The state of abandonment in which high-speed rail access to Asturias is found is a big scandal of waste of public money. And it is also not reasonable that the works on the lines should advance to La Coruña y Vigo, or to Vitoria, Bilbao and San Sebastián. By the way, this afternoon, with great emphasis, you pointed out the Government's high level of investment in that AVE to the Basque Country. And yet those on the line to Gijón and Granada are paralyzed. I'm not saying that because they're all first division Santander League cities. It is because this fact repugnants Spain's social cohesion and territorial solidarity. With the industry you also have to step on the accelerator. It is urgent that as soon as possible Spain and the Spanish industries have an electricity tariff approved with that of the competing European countries, as is the case with Germany and France. Thousands and thousands of stable and skilled jobs depend on the big industry in Spain. I would also ask you to make a similar effort to ensure that our farmers and fishermen, farmers and fishermen in Asturias, have a fair share by the Spanish Government of the European aid for the common agricultural policy and the quotas for the common fisheries policy. It is also a social cohesion measure to prevent Asturias from being at the forefront of Spain's dramatic depopulation process. That is why, Mr Rajoy, I should like to conclude by pointing out that by voting in favour of your investiture, Forum is voting in favour of a million Asturians who do not want to be more than anyone else, but who do not agree to remain less than others. Don't let us down, Mr. Rajoy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, the Canary Islands has not had the policies it needed this year, nor have the fantastic airports, which is why we have signed an agreement which states that investments in airports will be decided jointly in the coming years. Canary Islands has done well in tourism not because of its Government's policies, but because unfortunately in the Mediterranean what has happened has happened. And the Canary Islands has created jobs, but I don't know if you know that 60% is from outside because we haven't had the employment plans that your government has eliminated for four years and that we need to re-establish the standing people; but we've signed an agreement and they're going to be back. We hope that one day there will be a Government of Spain that will deal with the Canary Islands and that it will consider the Canary Islands in policies shaped by conviction, not by pacts. In any case, above all, the interests of my land, the interests of this country, the interests of Spain, the interests of the Canary Islands and those of the people who see us. State sense, as we have always had nationalists, and that the Canary Islands is an opportunity for Spain and Europe, not a burden; that the Canary Islands be that platform of development for the future of Africa; that in the Canary Islands they never have to take the suitcase again our young people, as the wonderful poem of Pedro Lezcano once quoted: my grandfather took the suitcase for Cuba, my father for Venezuela. We do not want the canaries to take the suitcase again, so we are responsible with this country, but also putting the interests of my land ahead. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u120	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, for the Joint Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u121	Thank you again, Madam President. I thank you for the tone, Mr Rajoy, I think we have had a debate that I think is hard in the background and reasonably educated on the surface, as it should be when opposing ideas are maintained. However, I would tell you one thing, really: don't say how well it goes to the Canary Islands. The last labour force survey says that unemployment in the Canary Islands has increased again and that the differential for the state average has increased again, 7.3 points. This is a monstrous figure against which we have been fighting, and time is not known. So, you have to be careful when you say these things. It is very important to know that Caritas, Red Cross, Foessa, have passed this year, the previous and the other making very hard reports on the poverty conditions of the Canary families. Because there is a concept that says that one thing is macroeconomic data and the other is reality. If we are not able to differentiate this, we will not make the right policies that really affect people. By the way, with reference to the airports, these will not go well because you failed to comply with that of reducing airport charges, which was not what happened in Madrid.And why privatize us then, contrary to the opinion of the majority of the Canary Islands institutions? They are in the process of privatizing airports, which we have denounced as being a strategic resource, and even more so when they go well. If they went well, it wasn't necessary either. We asked him that and we have not received that sensitivity. I have to end by saying, in all normality, that the Nationalists of New Canary Islands cannot share their policies because they have proved to be a failure and we cannot trust what you tell us, not for personal reasons, but because when you said in your moment everything you had to say where you had to say it, especially for four years when you had enormous power, imagine it all! to do what I thought I had to do, what he did was fail to do with the Canaries. I'm sorry that we're in that situation, but I repeat again that mathematically you have the right to think. which has enough to make the investiture thrive, but we have the right to think that there are more votes for political change than for continuity, and that is why we will continue to bet. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u122	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a very brief speech to reply to the last speeches we have just heard. Mr. Homs, are you in favour of bilingual or trilingual education? Do you think that the parents of some autonomous community in Spain would like their children to have a trilingual education or would be radically opposed to them being able to study in a trilingual education? Doesn't that seem more reasonable, sensible, advanced and, above all, useful and beneficial to children? Mr. Homs, you're talking about the prosecution as you go at the party. The difference between what you have said and what I usually say is that I accept the prosecution's decisions always, those that I like, those that I don't like and those that I don't like, that there have been and many, as you know, over the past four years. Mr. Homs, there is a difference between your approaches and mine. The difference is that mine respect the law and theirs radically liquidate the law and fundamental rights of citizens. [[Applauds]] Mr Homs, I had never been told that I could not come to the House to give my opinion. I have to come to the House to try to be invested and, at the same time, I have to give my opinion, because I have no other way of convincing people than by giving my opinion. Finally, I have lost, and what have you won, Mr. Homs, with your policies? Divide people, generate tension, create confusion. Are you proud of what you and your party have done? [[Applauds]] Mr. Baldoví, I don't have the heritage of positive grades, as is evident, but either you speak well of yourself or you look at the courtyard. [[Laughter]] The beneficiaries of the policies of the People's Party pretend that they are all Spaniards, believe me. There is a speech that we govern for the rich, but that is that 8 million people voted for us and 11 million years ago. We vote for people like you who were able to vote for you when you were mayor of Sweden. Probably some of those who voted for you to be mayor then voted for the People's Party and then voted for another political force. That is the law of life, it usually happens, and you are absolutely certain that it is positive for the country, because people as Mr Alli used to say before, whose words I echoed live things differently from what we see here in this House. Mrs Bildu's spokesman, I sincerely believe that walking down the street saying that other people's ideas are pernicious does not lead to anything, nor does it even make one happy internally. We must be a little more positive and a little more constructive, because the people of the People's Party can have some non-pernicious idea. You can always say that it is the exception that confirms the general rule, but in any case if you want to be happier you don't behave that way. A Otegi has been convicted by the courts. You say it wasn't the courts, but I think it was the courts; I certainly didn't. I have condemned him politically, but in this country it is the courts that condemn and send people to jail or impose penalties. I don't know there's anyone else. I know the payback for the news, but that one stays unique and exclusively there. [[Laughter]] Mr Alli, I thank you again for your support and I take this opportunity to assess the history of the Navarro People's Union because you referred to it. in defense of Navarra's general interests and also in defense of the interests of the Spaniards. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I take note of your urgency, which on the other hand are objective: autonomous financing and continuation of the large outstanding infrastructures. They tell me that it is not that there is a paralysis in the high speed, but that in the area of Pajares the technical complexities are certainly unusual. It is true what you have said, because the investment already exceeds 3 billion euros. I want to try to resolve and join in the support to the extent of my possibilities for the livestock sector and the fishing sector, of enormous importance in their land, Asturias, and also in mine, which, as you know, is neighbouring Galicia. Mrs Oramas, I reaffirm my commitments. It is certain, as you say, that in some things we have not been able to fulfill, as in so many facets for the reasons known throughout this year, but I agree that training is a key issue. Undoubtedly, employment requires many things. First there is economic activity, and therefore reforms and competitiveness, but it needs the best possible training. It is pure common sense: the greater the formation of someone, the greater their chances of being able to work. I take note of your concerns about the airport and welcome your bet It's been reaffirmed here today. for the general interest of the citizens of the Canary Islands and of all Spain. Mr. Quevedo recommends that I not say that things are going well. You can probably be right and you don't have to say things are going well. I think things are better in the Canary Islands. Obviously they do not go as we would like, but there are data that in my opinion invite optimism. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Aurelio said that wisdom is the art of accepting what cannot be changed, of changing what can be changed, and above all of knowing the difference. Following the speeches that some of your ladies and gentlemen have made over the course of the hours that we have been meeting here, I have to say that it is not precisely wisdom that has emerged from some of them, because there are those who still do not accept something that cannot change: the People's Party, with Mariano Rajoy as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government, won the elections again on 26 June, and did so more clearly than in December, being the only political force that has improved its results, both in votes and in percentages and seats, and strengthening its majority in the Senate. Some do not seem willing to change a situation that can and must be changed; having a governing government is not only an urgency for the People's Party, it is a necessity for Spain, which cannot be allowed more time with a functioning government without putting economic recovery and job creation at risk. If it was urgent six months ago, Mr Sánchez, it is even more urgent now. And worst of all: there are those who do not seem to distinguish one thing from the other. Only thus is it explained that we have been in this situation for 304 days and more than a year since we brought to this House the last law, which by the way were the General Budgets of the State for the year 2016, something for which we were severely criticized, but thanks to which and the effect of the reforms the country has continued to function all these months of interinity, maintaining the pace of growth and job creation. Well, unfortunately there are still some who maintain the same speech and the same attitudes that made the XI Legislature the shortest, most sterile and useless of all democracy because, ladies and gentlemen, the past legislature was failed due to the recklessness and irresponsibility of those whose only obsession was to win in the offices what the Spaniards did not give them in the polls, and to demolish the recovery and growth policies carried out by the government of Mariano Rajoy. All this turning the Congress of Deputies into the stage of a political, media theatre, marked by improvisations, occurrences and scenes of unfeasible pacts; and everything, ladies and gentlemen, for nothing. Some have sought to equate today's process with the investiture that took place a few months ago. I am sorry that Mr Rivera has done this, because there is a big difference, Mr Rivera, even if you are not here right now, between that and this. That was presented as a pretension to set in motion the clock of the Constitution or as some said the clock of democracy, and you joined it. I respect that, but after that the citizens voted in the ballot box with the results we all know. That did not have enough legitimacy to move forward; you knew that, the Socialist Party knew that, and we knew that. That is why I did not respond to the calls that some of you made to me, because we did not want to participate in that theater, we did not want to be accomplices to that, we could not support a president, Mr Sánchez, who had lost the elections, who had left the fourth for Madrid and who had obtained the worst result of his party's democracy. Is it so hard to understand this? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, during the 111 days that lasted the political paralysis of the XI Legislature our attitude was always the same, I have already told you: to accept the verdict emanating from the ballot box and to demand the need for agreements, which respecting the indisputable winner of the elections serve to unlock, and to allow this new scenario to become a historic opportunity, proposing a government of great coalition. That was indeed a historic agreement, a historic opportunity, the best option for stability and the most reassuring message to the outside world. In short, a formula that would certify Spain's democratic maturity, and allow us to undertake by consensus the reforms that our country needs in the face of the challenges of populism and independence. Others used that time for their election campaign, which is why article 99.5 of the Constitution was being implemented. However, the attitude of disproportionate intolerance of Mr Sánchez's is not, by vetoing the dialogue with the party and the candidate who won the elections, condemned the Spaniards, as we all know, to return to the polls. In these new elections the blockade party achieved something even more difficult, moving from the worst result of its history to the worst result of its history; quite a success, Mr Sánchez. And so the difference with the People's Party went from 33 seats to 52. After this result anyone would have understood the message, but it gives the impression that Mr Sánchez what the Spaniards say cares rather little. I'm glad others have changed their positions. No one can understand the intolerance that distills the attitude of those who persist in the not in advance, without knowing what proposals are made to him; that he predetermines not to vote for any programme, no matter how similar it is to his own or that he rejects budgets that he does not even know, and that it is also impossible to present; and even less that which is considered that the dialogue between the People's Party and the Socialist Party is something that is indispensable. Ladies and gentlemen, in democracy the dialogue between the first opposition party, yours, and the first party that has won the elections is never indispensible. Of course we've made mistakes! Of course I do! We're not perfect anymore. Others seem to be. But that absurd policy of everything, if it is against the PP, that one began to practice after the municipal elections of 2015, is the direct responsibility for the success of populism on his left, lords of the Socialist Party. This is not it, Mr. Sánchez, and I'm sorry I'm not here to hear this; this is not it, Mr. Sánchez. The Spaniards had to put their vote back on 26 June and the message was clear and compelling, and this time no simplistic interpretations are allowed. The People's Party won the elections with almost 8 million votes, 800,000 more than in December. The Socialist and United Party We may have lost 1,200,000 votes. Maybe this should give some thought. We have been the most voted list in 42 of the 52 electoral districts, and we have drawn the greatest difference from the second of all elections in which it has not been won by an absolute majority: 52 deputies to the Socialist Party; 66 to Podemos and 105 to Citizens. We already know that for some this does not mean much, and it seems that Mr Sánchez remains willing to twist the will expressed in the ballot boxes, for the sole purpose of his own personal survival. So it happened in December, when for the first time it was questioned that he was the candidate of the most voted list, for the first time in the history of democracy in our country. An unwritten principle that had always been respected in this House, in all previous legislatures in which there was no absolute majority. I remind you that the Socialist Party ruled three times without an absolute majority. A position which Mr Rivera also defended in December, although he then changed his position. Perhaps, Mr Sánchez, your elders know this very well, they know this very well, they know the history of this Parliament very well. That is why in a manifesto signed by six former ministers they asked him to let the party that won the elections govern. Don't you think that this difference in seats and votes over your party should have made it possible for a government to work today? Because, what's your alternative? Is your alternative a government to Frankenstein, as Rubalcaba says? Is it a government with Podemos? Ladies and gentlemen, that was not the case then, and now, with fewer votes and fewer seats, it is not the case, unless you decide to turn to Mr Tardà or Mr Homs; unless you put the unity of Spain and national sovereignty in the currency, and I am sure that you will not be able to do this. I think that I'm sure your voters don't deserve it; those voters who tell you that they prefer a government with Rajoy to have a new election. As spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, you will also allow me to acknowledge my parliamentary group to the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Not many have come up to this rostrum to do so, but they will allow me to count some things in this rostrum, and give some data that contrast with that black Spain that some intend to describe when they come up to this rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are growing more than four years ago, five to be exact; eleven consecutive quarters at increasing rates; a 3.4 in the first quarter of this year. According to the International Monetary Fund we will be, together with the United States, the advanced economy that will grow the most in 2016. We have more and better jobs; almost 1,700,000 jobs have been created in this country since the worst time of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, 1,700,000 jobs since we were able to amend the situation that you left and turned to the economic situation. This is the great change that has taken place in the country. Today we have 740,000 fewer unemployed than when we started the legislature, and 615,000 more members than in December 2011. Spain is the second country in the euro area where there are more indefinite contracts, three out of four Spaniards have an indefinite contract. Ladies and gentlemen, there are export records in Spain today, and that is because of the activity of our productive fabric and because today we are more competitive than many other countries, and this is a big change. There is more equality: see, this year 123,000 women will benefit from the supplement to the amount of the contributory pension for those who have had two or more children, and in 2019 it will be 450,000 women who will have that type of benefit. But there are also more pensions, better pensions and higher pensions. Today someone here has said that the People's Party has frozen pensions. No, no, Mr. Sánchez, it was you and your government who froze the pensions when in 2011 they did what they did We have improved the pensions; yes, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] We have improved pensions every year. And you know what else happened? That the elderly have improved their purchasing power year after year, because they have had an inflation below the rise of their pensions. [[Several Members: Come on!!!No!!Applause]] This is so, and I'm sorry that you don't want to recognize it. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is more citizen security and more strength against jihadist terrorism. Crime rates have fallen significantly, and since January 2015 201 members of brigades or Islamic terrorism groups have been arrested, more than 30 this past year, and we must congratulate the State Security Forces and Corpses and our intelligence services. There are more resources for families. We have been able to keep our promise to lower taxes as soon as possible, leaving in 2015 in the pockets of all 9 billion citizens. There is also better education, ladies and gentlemen, with more scholarships, more pupils in vocational training and less drop-out. I am sure that this is not all we could have done, Mr Rivera, but moving from 26% drop-out to 19% seems to me to be a step; we must continue to take more steps to ensure that we actually improve our results. They've already improved something in PISA. And let us be a country recognized not for failure and drop out of school, but just the opposite. For that we have signed, among other things, the agreement with you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is more and better health for many people. There are 800,000 more health cards in our country, and for the first time the long-term unemployed do not have to pay for their medicines, which they did with other governments that call themselves or say they are much more social. There have also been more opportunities for the most unprotected sectors of society. We have provided 23,500 families with a decent solution to their problems in maintaining housing. We have allocated 4,000 households through the Social Housing Fund, and more than 18,000 evictions have been suspended. More attention has also been paid to vulnerable groups through the Government's State Poverty Relief Fund, negative taxes on the IRPF, protection measures for mortgage debtors and second- chance mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen, I could go on with more, but I don't want to bore you. This has been the result of this Government, the Government of Change, which has changed policy and has given hope to many Spaniards who have found employment all this time. This has been possible, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the efforts of all the Spaniards, which have enabled us to overcome the hardest economic crisis our country has ever had. Our task is not complete and cannot be completed until those more than 3.5 million people who are still unemployed find a job. They will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a reference to the issue of corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning some have used corruption as a mantra to attack the People's Party and my President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, Mr Sánchez, you do not have enough virtue even to throw a stone at my party. We have had gulfs and cases of corruption, we have recognized it, we have helped justice and we have asked for forgiveness from society. [[Rumors and Protests]] Don't provoke me, don't provoke me. [[Applauds]] I'm not going to refer here to your corruption cases...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u126	One second, Mr. Hernando; one second. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go on, Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u127	...yes, yes, more than a thousand deputies. What I will remind you of is that during the last parliamentary term we have agreed with the Socialist Party, with some members of the Socialist Party, the most ambitious package of legal reforms for the fight against corruption, but you, Mr Sánchez, forced your Members to vote no. And this morning we had to attend the paradox that Mr Sánchez was claiming a measure that is legally in force at the moment, such as the fact that the corrupt return to the last cent even with their assets, and that Mr Sánchez voted not to this same extent. Ladies and gentlemen, good lesson in coherence. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption has no colours, and that is why corruption is being pursued more effectively after these reforms and is sitting on the bench of those who are being corrupted, regardless of their ideology, their family or economic status. This government does not cover anyone or condition the courts, and we will be even more effective with the pact we have signed with Citizens. [[Applauds]] Mr. Iglesias, if it's not of color, let alone of genes. I'm not going to refer to the genetics of some of your party members who sit near you, I'm not going to, I don't like to hurt anyone's susceptibility. But look, that insult portrays you and your totalitarian conception of life. But it is intolerable when it comes from someone who, like you and some of your colleagues, has the stained hands of dollars of tyrannical and liberticidal regimes Yes, Mr. Iglesias, yes. [[Rumors and protests.]] Those who, like you, are hanging around the European Parliament with an old terrorist such as Mr Otegi, who has not yet responded and has not dealt with his criminal responsibilities. Don't get nervous, Mr Spinar, that I'm not going with you; if you want I'm going, but I'm not going with you. You have a strange conception of life. When it's the others who commit faults, they're big crooks; when you have those problems with Social Security, Mr. Garzón could explain to you what the United Left did when it had economic problems, and the first thing he did was not pay Social Security. We already know what your answers are; ask your secretary of organization; I will not give you any more clues. You still do not understand, Mr. Iglesias, why you lost 1 million votes and support in just six months. Do you know why you lost them? Because the Spaniards knew you, because you've been portraying yourself all that time. Because you have made populism the horse on which to ride to get an election result and to be here today, with great citizen support, but everyone could see what their preferences were, Mr. Churches. You talk a lot about the underprivileged, you talk a lot about the dispossessed, but when you had the opportunity to choose ministries, what ministries were they that claimed Mr. Sánchez? Did the Ministry of Housing ask to favor the evicted? Did he ask the Ministry of Social Affairs because he was very concerned about child poverty? Did you ask the Ministry of Energy because it was concerned about energy poverty, which really affects many people? Did the Ministry of Education ask to improve the education of our young people and to find here enough intellectual resources not to have to leave our country? No, no, Mr. Churches, you didn't ask for those ministries. You asked He remembers it. the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, public television and the CNI, that's what portrayed you and that's why you don't believe many people and have left so many people to have faith in you; that's why, Mr. Churches, that's why. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mr. Iglesias, today the general is not here and there is a deputy for Almeria of my party, of which I am very proud to have obtained the seat and of which today he sits among us. Ladies and gentlemen, this has really been the government of change; things have changed in our country, and today no one but some deny the reality of that change. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to deceive the Spaniards; what is really at stake today is not whether or not we invest Mariano Rajoy, respecting the decision of the polls. Today we are deciding whether we want to consolidate economic recovery and public accounts, reorder the institutional framework, safeguard national unity, fight corruption more effectively, lay the foundations for more inclusive and sustainable growth, improve the education of young people and the skills of adults, ensure a solid and sustainable welfare state, fight terrorism and increase the opportunities of the middle classes. This is the basis and essence of the work of the People's Party Government and this has been our commitment to citizens in these elections. Today we are deciding whether this House will be able to discuss the budget that it needs and that we need for 2017, allowing a government that, in compliance with the constitutional foresight, sends them as a project to the Courts on 1 October, or whether the current one will have to be extended, with the prejudice that this would entail for the well-being of 46 million Spaniards, for our image and credibility at international level, and we know very well what we are talking about. The irresponsibility of others in 2011, going out the back door before the end of the legislature, forced us to reach 2012 without a budget. That, ladies and gentlemen, aggravated the recession, put us on the brink of the rescue and cost us 700,000 jobs that all Spaniards paid for the wrong policies and cowardice of some. Today, in addition to the possible loss of jobs if there are no general budgets and we do not present the ceiling of expenditure and the forecasts of economic and financial consolidation in Europe, we face a possible sanction from the European Union, 6.1 billion frozen structural funds, which will undoubtedly affect the autonomous communities or the municipalities, as well as the investments of the State. That is what we are deciding here, and it is not worth ideological reasons, Mr Sánchez, absent; you must continue on vacation. [[Laughter]] Here there are no ideological reasons, because you look around: in twenty-four of the twenty-eight countries of the European Union there are coalition governments; in fifteen the coalition is between popular and socialist parties. This is the model of Germany, Italy, Ireland or Sweden. This is the model that works in the European Union, which has made it possible to reach agreements in the Commission, in the European Council and in Parliament. But you don't have to go that far, it's also the agreement that has allowed Extremadura to have budgets today. It seems that Mr Sánchez has become a kind of spiritual reserve of socialism in the West, because except in Spain, I insist, in all the other countries of Europe these agreements are possible. We have signed a positive pact with Citizens and we are very grateful for their efforts, and I wish to express my admiration for that agreement. It has not been a simple agreement, it has been complex; there have been divestitures on the part of all, and the negotiating teams deserve all the congratulations and recognition of this House. The president has done it, but I want to make it public also this afternoon. [[Applauds]] My congratulations to everyone, to the Citizens' team and also to the team of my party. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more excuses here. You, Mr. Sánchez, can be useful if you want to, you can accept Mr. Rajoy's offer to reach an agreement. or you can continue to insist that your commitments to the voters who voted for you are useless, useless, and lead us to a new election. If so, say it now, do not continue to deceive citizens; citizens need no more lies and no more theaters. It is in your hands and today you have seen it in this House, by virtue of the speeches of each and every one of your lords. To facilitate the formation of a stable government, to be part of the new challenges facing our society and to end the current state of indwelling of the executive, an attitude that endangers the process of economic recovery and prosperity. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party Mr Sánchez is not here, I ask you to reflect, you have forty-eight hours to do so; I ask you to reflect and change your vote because that will allow you to reach a way out for this country. This country needs a government that governs, does not need a government in office, needs a government that works and also needs someone to unlock Parliament, because if there is no government, neither does Parliament, if there is no head of government, there can be no head of opposition. And what I am asking of the one who aspires to be head of the opposition is to allow for a head of government. Thank you very much and welcome, Mr Sánchez. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon enters the Chamber]] [[Laughter.....................................]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u128	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Rumors]] Keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me assure you. Mr Hernando. — (FR) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. I will be brief, I insist, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the People's Party and its Members. The last four years have not been easy for anyone. It has not been easy after 20 December, nor after 26 June, nor will it be in the future. We have experienced a difficult stage, we have done some good things and we have made some mistakes, but I think the balance sheet of the whole is very positive and you can be proud. It will be very difficult to govern in the future, not so much because of the composition of the House, today or another, but because of the challenges ahead, which will be many and complicated to face. Next year the public deficit will have to be in our country of 3.1. We still have to create a lot of jobs to put Spain in its position at the time when more people were working in our country. There are doubts about the economic future in Europe and there are still too many concerns in too many places that can affect our economy. I encourage you to continue in battle; I will do so, whatever happens, always in defense of the general interest, which is the only thing that interests me today. [[Applauds]] I would like, as I have done this morning and Mr Hernando has reiterated, to thank again the Citizens' Group for its support. I'll try and make sure they never have to regret it. I think we've done a good job together. There's a good show. It is a good basis for improving the functioning of many things in our country and I sincerely believe that they have made a good decision. I would also like to thank our coalitions, those who went with us on the electoral lists and Mrs Oramas, who joined this project. And to all the speakers who have spoken today, I am grateful because I believe that we have had a more reasonable debate than on other occasions. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u130	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in three minutes, so you will all have to be in your seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Once the debate is over, we will proceed to the vote for the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by his majesty the king. In accordance with Rule 85(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn, as set out in the Rules of Procedure, by luck and which was that of Mrs Elvira Ramón Utrabo. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. I ask the first Madam Secretary to begin the vote. The secretaries of the Bureau are calling on the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen who said 'yes': Reynés Calvache, Águeda Rivera Andrés, Irene Rivera de la Cruz, Marta María Rivera Díaz, Albert Roca Mas, Jordi Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa Rojas García, Carlos Red Noguera, Pilar Roldán Monés, Antonio Romero Hernández, Carmelo Romero Rodríguez, María Eugenia Salvador Armendáriz, Carlos Casimiro Salvador García, Luis Miguel Santa Ana Fernández, María de la Concepción de Suárez Lamata, Eloy Tarno Blanco, Ricardo Ten Oliver, Vicente Tremiño Gomez, Ignacio Valmaña Ochaíta, Silvia Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén Vazquez Rojas, Juan María Vera Proro, Juan Carlos Villalobos Talero, Celia Villegas Pérez, José Manuel Viso Diéguez, Miguel Ángel Zoido Alvarez, Juan Ignacio Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria Acedo Penco, Pedro Aguiar Rodríguez, Ernesto Aguirre Rodríguez, Ramon Alba Mullor, María Dolores Albaladejo Martínez, Joaquín Alli Martínez, Íñigo Jesús Alonso Aranegui, Alfonso Alonso Díaz-Guerra, José Jaime Alós López, Ana Isabel Alvarez Palleiro, Felix Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros, María Carmen Angle Romero, Maria Teresa Asian González, Matilde Pastora Ayllón Manso, José Luis Under Prieto, Maria Luz Barrachina Ros, Miguel Barreda de los Ríos, Leopoldo Barrios Tejero, José María Bastida Bono, Elena Maria Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Bernabé Pérez, Francisco Martín White Garrido, Maria Mar Blasco Marqués, Manuel Bonilla Domínguez, María Jesús Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Bravo Baena, Juan Burgos Gallego, Thomas Cabrera Carmona, Eloísa Maria Camps Devesa, Gerardo Candon Adam, Alfonso Cano Fuster, José Cano Leal, Francisco Javier Singing García del Moral, Antonio Carreño Fernández, María Ascension Married White, Pablo Cascals Martínez, Loreto Barber Boy, José María Clavell López, Oscar Clemente Giménez, Diego Courtesy Bureta, Pilar Balmaseda Cotello, Mar From Above Sanchez, Welcome From Barrionuevo Gener, Avelino From Cospedal García, María Dolores De la Torre Díaz, Francisco De Campo Estaún, Sergio From the Sanz River, Emilio Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Diaz Gómez, Guillermo Dueñas Martínez, María del Carmen Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta Spain Queen, Carolina Faba de la Incarnation, Elena Fernández de Moya Romero, José Enrique Fernández García, Eduardo Floriano Corrales, Carlos Javier Gammazo Micó, Oscar Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel García Cañal, José Ramón García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Hernández, José Ramón García-Pelayo Jurado, María José García-Tizón López, Arturo Garrido Valenzuela, Irene Vidal Swivel, Juan Carlos Gomez Balsera, Marcial Gómez García, Rodrigo González Guinda, María del Carmen González Muñoz, Ángel Luis González Terol, Antonio González Vázquez, Marta Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel Heredia Martín, Silvia Hernández Bento, María del Carmen Hernando Fraile, Rafael Antonio Herrero Bono, José Alberto Holo Juliá, Belén Igea Arisketa, Francisco Isac García, Angels Juncal Rodríguez, Juan Manuel Lara Carbo, Maria Teresa of Lassalle Ruiz, José María Llorens Torres, José Ignacio Lopez Ares, Susana Lorenzo Rodríguez, Sunday Lorenzo Torres, Miguel Luis Rodríguez, Theophilus of Madrazo Díaz, Ana Maria Marcos Moyano, María Dolores Marí Bosó, José Vicente Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez González, José Luis Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel Martínez Saiz, Theophila Martínez Vázquez, Francisco Martínez-Maillo Toribio, Fernando Martín-Toledano Suárez, José Alberto Matarí Sáez, Juan José Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel Matos Mascareño, Pablo Maura Barandiaran, Fernando Merino López, Rafael Millán Salmerón, María Virginia Molinero Hoyos, Francisco Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montserrat Montserrat, Dolors Moragas Sánchez, Jorge Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria Moreno Bustos, Ramon Moreno Palanques, Rubén Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Nadal Belda, Álvaro María Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez, Fernando Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Nieto Ballesteros, José Antonio Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Palmer Tous, Teresa Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel Pérez Aras, Juan Vicente Pérez López, Santiago Pyriz Maya, Victor Valentín Posada Moreno, Jesus Postigo Quintana, Jesús Quintanilla Barba, María del Carmen Ramírez Freire, Saul Ladies and gentlemen who said 'no': Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Raya Rodríguez, María Tamara Robles Fernández, Margarita Rodriguez García, Isabel Rodríguez Hernández, Juana Amalia Rodríguez Martínez, Angela Rodriguez Ramos, María Soraya Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Romingera Salazar, María del Mar Rufián Romero, Gabriel Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Health Areste, María Isabel Salvador i Duch, Jordi Sánchez Amor, José Ignacio Sánchez Melero, Tania Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Sánchez Serna, Javier Santos Itoiz, Eduardo Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Jiménez, María Jesús Sibine Camps, Marta Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Simancas Simancas, Rafael Six Churches, Ricardo Sorli Fresquet, Marta Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Surra Spadea, Ana Maria I'm late for Coma, Joan. Terron Berbel, Ana Belén Torres Mora, José Andrés Trevín Lombán, Antonio Ramón María Tundador Moreno, Victoria Begoña Urquizu Sancho, Ignacio Valido Pérez, Carmen Vendrell Gardeños, Josep Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia Vidal Sáez, Aina Old vineyard, Raimundo Vila Gómez, Miguel Xucla i Costa, Jordi Yllanes Suárez, Juan Pedro Zaragoza Alonso, José Abalos Meco, José Luis Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Alba Goveli, Nayua Miriam Alconchel Gonzaga, Miriam Alonso Cantorné, Felix Alonso Clusa, Rosa Ana Alvarez Alvarez, Angels Antón Cacho, Javier Arevalo Caraballo, María Teresa Acute Casting, Pedro Azpiazu Uriarte, Pedro María Baldoví Roda, Joan Ballester Muñoz, Angela Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Barreda Fontes, José María Battle and Ruiz, Enric Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Beitialarrangement Lizarralde, Marian Nice Accensi, Ferran Belarus Urteaga, Ione Bellido Acevedo, Pablo Bescansa Hernández, Carolina Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Bosaho Gori, Rita Gertrudis Botejara Sanz, Amparo Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Bustamante Martín, Miguel Ángel Bustinduy Amador, Pablo Camacho Sánchez, José Miguel Villar Camera, Gregorio Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Campuzano i Canadés, Carles Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Candle Serna, Ignasi Carrera de Castro, Zaida Cañamero Valle, Diego I'm sure you're welcome, Joan. Chapel and Farre, Esther Green Carracedo, José David Carreño Valero, Sara Ciscar Casabán, Ciprià Ciuro i Buldo, Lourdes Cruz Rodríguez, Manuel Cello Pérez, Carmen Rocío De Frutos Madrazo, María del Rocío De la Concha García-Mauriño, María Asunción Jacoba Pía De la Encina Ortega, Salvador Antonio Del Olmo Ibáñez, Juan Manuel Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Diaz Trillo, José Juan Domènech Sampere, Francesc Xavier Elorza González, Odón Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Errejón Galván, Íñigo Esteban Bravo, Aitor Farré Fidalgo, Sonia Fernández Bello, Miguel Anxo Elias Fernández Castañón, Sofia Fernández Diaz, Jesús María Fernández Gómez, Alexandra Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Florez Rodríguez, María Aurora Franco Carmona, Isabel Franchise Vera, Sebastian Galeano Gracia, Oscar Galovart Carrera, María Dolores Gallego Arriola, María del Puerto García Mira, Ricardo Antonio García Puig, María del Mar García Sempere, Eva Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio González Bayo, Josefa Immaculate González García, Second González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel González Veracruz, María Guijarro García, Txema Guinart Moreno, Lydia Gutiérrez Limones, Antonio Heredia Díaz, Miguel Ángel Hernando Vera, Antonio Hernanz Costa, Sofia Homs Molist, Francesc Honorato Chulián, María Auxiliadora Hurtado Zurera, Antonio Turrion Churches, Pablo Manuel Jiménez Tortosa, Juan Jordan and Roura, Teresa Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lasarte Iribarren, José Javier Lastra Fernández, Adriana Legarda Uriarte, Mikel López Álvarez, Patxi López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio López Milla, Julián Lucio Carrasco, María Pilar Luena López, Caesar Luis Bail, Jorge Madina Muñoz, Eduardo Marcello Santos, Ana Martín González, Lucia Martín González, María Guadalupe Martínez Rodríguez, María Rosa Martínez Seijo, María Luz Matute García de Jalón, Oskar Maura Zorita, Eduardo Javier Mayoral Perales, Rafael Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Mena Arca, Joan Miquel and Valenti, Sergi Monereo Pérez, Manuel Montero Gil, Irene Maria Montero Soler, Alberto Moya Matas, Jaume Muñoz González, Pedro José Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olòriz Serra, Joan Palacín Guarné, Gonzalo Pascual Peña, Sergio Pastor Muñoz, Rosana Peña Waiter, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Domínguez, María Soledad Pérez Herráiz, Margarita Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan Postius Terrado, Antoni Pradas Torres, Antonio Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro Rallo Lombarte, Artemi Members of the Government in office who said "yes": Rajoy Brey, Mariano Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, María Soraya García-Margallo y Marfil, José Manuel Catalá Polo, Rafael Montoro Romero, Cristóbal Ricardo Fernández Díaz, Jorge Mendez de Vigo Montojo, Íñigo Báñez García, María Fatima García Tejerina, Isabel Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Reyes Rivera, Patricia Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, Alicia Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Take Take, José Ignacio Pastor Julián, Ana Maria Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Exposito Prieto, Marcelo Gordo Pérez, Juan Luis Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria Navarro Garzón, Micaela
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u132	Are there any honourable Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] Consequently, the votes cast shall be scrutinised. [[Pause]] Made the count, he said
ParlaMint-ES_2016-08-31-CD160831.u133	Having failed to reach the proposed candidate by an absolute majority, the same proposal should be submitted to a new vote forty-eight hours after the previous one, in accordance with article 99.3 of the Constitution. The result was: votes cast, 350; votes in favour, 170; votes against, 180; abstentions, 0. Therefore, as I have indicated, having failed to reach the proposed candidate by an absolute majority, the same proposal should be put to a new vote, as I have just announced. This Presidency therefore calls for the plenary session of the House to be held on 2 September at 7 p.m. to proceed to the second vote on the same proposal with the expectation that it will be the vote no later than 20:05 a.m. Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was eight and ten minutes of the night.
