ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-26-CD161026.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. One item on the agenda: debate on the nomination of the candidate for the Presidency of the Government. The first secretary of the House read out the proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-26-CD161026.u2	Thank you, President. In accordance with article 99.1 of the Constitution, after consultations with the representatives appointed by the political groups with parliamentary representation, I have come to propose to the most excellent Mr. Mariano Rajoy Brey as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government, which I communicate to your excellence for the timely proposal to the Congress of Deputies. Palacio de la Zarzuela, 25 October 2016. Philip, king of Spain, to the president of the Congress of Deputies, Ana Maria Pastor Julián. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-26-CD161026.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Rajoy Brey, proposed candidate for the Presidency of the Government, has the floor. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-26-CD161026.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, five days before the end of the deadline set by law for the dissolution of the General Courts automatically, I come again to this rostrum to ask for the confidence of the House in my investiture as President of the Government. I have accepted the commission of his majesty the king for the same reasons I expressed to you when I appeared before you last August. The first, and most important, is that Spain needs a government urgently. I am addressing you from the shared conviction that Spain no longer admits delays. I do not exaggerate a bit if I say that political instability has become in the eyes of any observer at the greatest risk to our economy. Today we welcome our efforts to put the crisis behind us. We value our reforms to regain competitiveness and recognize the effects of our fight against unemployment. They recognize it all and everywhere. But, in a row, we are warned that the clouds that tarnish a hopeful horizon are political uncertainty and institutional paralysis. Fortunately, the inertia of the job well done has allowed Spain to cross the infertuous moor of the last few months without resentment. Spain - I repeat -, as much as anyone is surprised, remains the country that grows the most from the big developed economies, it was last year, it will be this year and all forecasts point to that it will also be next year. We are growing at a rate that doubles the growth of the euro area and thanks to that growth we are also the country that creates the most jobs - half a million people will find work in this year of instability - but everything has a limit, ladies and gentlemen. Fortunately, my Government was foresight and in autumn 2015 we approved the General State Budgets for this year. We have thus been able to maintain benefits, subsidies, investments and subsidies, which has undoubtedly allowed the path of growth to continue and to preserve social care at this time. It was a wise decision despite the torrent of criticism with which it was received. In Spain, we have to get used to understanding that those measures that some of them automatically reject as undesirable are precisely those that benefit the Spaniards. Nor have we spared any effort from the Government in these ten months to take advantage of the limited scope allowed by the law in order to avoid harm and minimize the damage that interinity could cause to the Spaniards. As you know, we have obtained from the European Commission a path of fiscal consolidation that is more compatible with our economic growth. We have been able, after a fruitful dialogue in this House, to take the necessary steps to meet this year's committed deficit. We have ensured, following a frank understanding with the autonomous communities and parliamentary groups, that, whatever happens, local self-governments and local authorities could be updated with their deficit and debt targets to approve their accounts and preserve the essential services that they all manage. Moreover - and I am proud to acknowledge this - in these months of restricted government we have been able to see that Spain is a mature democracy, capable of continuing, provided that the responsibilities of the government were met in advance, as has been the case. From security forces to social organizations, from health to employment offices, from the judiciary to municipalities, Spain has never been in office. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Spain has so far maintained its course. But, as I said, everything has a limit. The cornerstone of our prosperity is at stake, trust, that substantial ingredient in human relations, whether personal, political, commercial or diplomatic, on which the thrust of our recovery depends. We have accumulated a good flow of confidence, and that is seen inside and outside our borders. Both Spaniards and foreigners rely more on the possibilities of our country, and because they trust more, spend more and invest more. Spain is reliable and this translates into the interest that our debt pays or the credit that is given to us in the face of the deficit. Trust, ladies and gentlemen, is very difficult to conquer, but very little to lose. Under no circumstances should we run the risk of turning the course and spoiling the titanic efforts that the Spaniards have made to represent a success story that everyone recognizes. Our citizens therefore have the right - which is our duty - to demand that we, their representatives, not be responsible for their well-being, who harm the fruits of their efforts. Spain does not allow any further delays and uncertainties. My purpose today, ladies and gentlemen, is that we can now get out of the way of any fear of instability, claiming that Spain has a government that can govern, that maintains its predictable course and is in a hurry to erase until the last breeze of uncertainty that as a weed has sprouted in these months. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most important reason why I have accepted the command of your majesty the king. But there's more. The Spaniards have twice shown their clear preference for the People's Party, both in December and in June. I do not intend to recall what you too well know, nor to brag here about the results of the last elections. [[Rumors]] Nor do they display them. But it seems reasonable that, in a consolidated democracy like ours, it governs that political formation which has the most support among the citizens. [[Applauds]] And it seems more reasonable if, as in this case, the difference with the second political force exceeds two and a half million votes. Ladies and gentlemen, this statement is as obvious as the fact that in Spain since 1977 it has always governed the political force that has had the most popular support. And if for some it was not enough reason, to this circumstance we must add the fact that the alternative that my group is proposing is, today, the only reasonable government, as time has been entrusted with proving. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go into any more detail about these reasons because it does not do so, because it has not been so long since I was heard to put them in this rostrum and because nothing has changed since then in my argument. But allow me to add to these two other very powerful considerations in my speech today that reaffirm me in the decision that I adopted when I submitted my candidacy for the presidency of the Government to this House. The first is that, as everyone knows, in the two months since the last investiture session there have been very significant changes that improve the political situation and open the possibility that this debate will end differently from the previous one. It is not for me, and therefore I am not going to do so, to assess the reasons and details of these changes, but to acknowledge that we are in a new situation which encourages the hope that Spain will soon be able to have a full government. The last reason I'm here today is that today we don't just say yes or no to a government proposal; we say yes or no to an un postponed election. The exhaustion of days and opportunities puts us today in the disjunctive of having to choose exclusively and definitively between offering a government to the Spaniards or asking them to return to the polls for the third time in just over 360 days. I defend - and my presence in this rostrum demonstrates this - that we avoid going back to the polls at all costs, and I defend it from the conviction that this is what is best for Spain and the Spaniards. A third election would be, as almost all of you have acknowledged, very damaging to our country; a discredit for the image of Spain abroad; a disappointment for the citizens and their confidence in the political system; a serious breakdown, in short, for the economy, which would be injured by the prolongation of uncertainty; an objective damage, to be looked at as it is, to Spain and to the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go into what might be more interesting or more detrimental to the particular interests of some or other parties represented in this House. We are all very aware, all of us, of what the situation is; it would be a frivolity that today would take precedence over the particular conveniences. We are talking about Spain, and the repetition of elections is not what the Spaniards want or what benefits them most. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why I appear here today to ask for your confidence. Spain needs a Government, as is the case in the rest of the world. We cannot be in office indefinitely, nor can we be repeating elections every six months. This is not to live in a situation of normality; it is not suitable for anyone and ends up injuring the rights and interests of everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs a government, but it is not the same as any government. Last August 30th I said here before all of you: 'We would be fooling ourselves - worse still, fooling the Spaniards - if we let them believe that it is enough to choose no matter which government, whatever, to solve the ballot or - as some say - to unlock the situation. What Spain is demanding is obviously a government that can govern, that can deal effectively with the problems, which requires a government that is stable, lasting, solid and reassuring.' It is the same approach that your ladies and gentlemen have heard me defend since last 21 December: a stable government, capable of governing and inspiring confidence; a reliable and predictable government. And also, as I said in August: '... an agreement-based government, because that is what electoral results demand and because we face challenges that no political party can respond to alone today. This, when a parliamentary majority is not available, requires either a coalition government or at least some kind of agreement that avoids a sterile legislature...'. That is the proposal that I have been making continuously - I insist, unbroken - since last December. I have not changed my mind, since December I have been talking about a government with a broad parliamentary base, capable of carrying out, by consensus and with a permanent vocation, the major reforms that Spain needs. That is, at least in my opinion, the best way to interpret the will that the Spanish expressed with their votes and the best way to meet their needs; a model of government that was still unprecedented in Spain, but similar to that which governs the Community institutions and those which operate in many countries of the European Union and for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, on 30 August, I again proposed, as you recall, a large coalition of constitutionalist forces that could conform in different ways: either a coalition of government, a broad parliamentary agreement or a commitment to governability. Well, as you all know, that was not possible, but at least we managed to take steps in the right direction. After June 26, we reached the commitments of government with Citizens, which you know and which we set out in that session in late August Mr Rivera and myself. They are government commitments on many of the issues that matter most to the Spaniards and which, we are sure, will, when they are completed, benefit everyone. These agreements are complemented by those reached with Mrs Oramas and her party, Coalition Canaria, also after the elections on 26 June, as well as the pre-elections with Union del Pueblo Navarro, Forum Asturias and the Aragonese Party. To all of you, I reiterate once again my thanks and that of my group. Honestly, I think, as I said in his day, they're doing what's best for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] They are agreements with a clear political significance and represent a step towards that great goal that Spain needs: a government that can govern, that is, that can effectively address the problems and respond to the commitments made. I am very aware of the importance of these agreements and my will is to maintain and implement them, and you have no doubt that I will do so. Ladies and gentlemen, when I present the government programme that I am offering for your consideration, I shall spare you the task of listening again to each of the words that I said on this subject last 30 August at the previous investiture session. To this end, it seems to me more reasonable to refer to the Diario de Sesiones where the presentation you have heard is detailed, which also included the measures agreed with the other parties and parliamentary groups that support this investiture and, in particular, the 150 commitments to improve Spain that we have agreed with Citizens. Today I just want to remind you that our political project contains two basic objectives that are also inseparable: employment and the maintenance of the pillars of our welfare state. No one should doubt that employment is the goal of all our economic policy and the necessary budget of any social policy. Employment has always been my first concern and my highest priority. When I first assumed the responsibilities as President of the Government, at the end of 2011, 1,400 jobs were destroyed every day in Spain and, today, more than 1,400 people find work every day. Simply, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has been reversed for good, the trend has been completely reversed. If it is the country of the European Union where more employment is being destroyed, today we are leading the creation of jobs in the eurozone. We have changed the trend, but we cannot abandon the objective, because we have a lot of work to do. There are still too many people in Spain looking for an opportunity. Now, as the situation improves, they have more hope of finding it and that hope dictates the demands of our priority duty. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, employment is the goal of our economic policy, but it is also a prerequisite for maintaining and improving our welfare state, which, I recall again in this House, is one of the most advanced in the world. [[Applauds]] They think that in Spain more than 14 million people - I repeat, more than 14 million people - receive every end of the month some kind of public benefit in terms of pensions, care for dependency, unemployment benefits, minimum incomes, and to this must be added that almost a quarter of our public expenditure is devoted to public health and education. That's why it's no wonder that 63% of our total public spending is social spending. Well, ladies and gentlemen, without a job, meeting those needs for the very good intentions that we all have, which we obviously have, without a job, is a chimera, because it is those who work, contribute to social security and pay their taxes who support and improve our welfare system. That is why it is so important to prioritize job creation. And, as you know, that great goal does not just depend on us implementing good employment policies, it mainly depends on us being able to maintain economic growth and consolidate recovery; it therefore depends on pursuing economic policy that has allowed us to change our course and not to back down those reforms that are allowing us to create half a million jobs a year. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective is job creation, but in Spain there are many problems to be addressed and we could do so much more effectively if we were able to share priorities. I invite you, from now on, to discuss in common some matters that imperatively demand the consensus of all for directly affecting the general interest of the Spaniards. It is imperative that we agree on what needs to be done to reach an understanding on major State affairs. I am talking about those major issues that far exceed a session or a legislature, and that mark the life of a country for generations. There is an opportunity before us to provide a shared and stable solution to major challenges such as the ageing of the population, the future of our young people, the management of migration, full equality between men and women - including reconciliation and the eradication of any form of violence against women - climate change or the incorporation of new scientific and technological advances. The first of these State issues concerns the sustainability of our public pension system. I do not have to say that your guarantee depends, in particular, on our knowing how to move towards the prime objective of 20 million people working in 2020 and on leaving behind those times when, for each new pensioner, three workers were unemployed. Today, each new pensioner is compensated for the entry of six new contributors into the system. [[Applauds]] All the groups in this Parliament, all of them, have expressed their concern about the pension system. I propose that we make this common concern the framework for a dialogue to strengthen it, with the aim of giving tranquillity to the pensioners present and also to the future. That is why I announce to you that, if I gain your confidence in this investiture, I will ask the parliamentary groups for the immediate convening of the Toledo Pact before the end of the year. I also intend to give a twist and an impetus to social dialogue. In recent years, my Government has reached important agreements with social actors to strengthen economic growth and employment. Their participation remains a key element in driving the recovery of our economy. Therefore, if this House gives me its confidence, I will immediately call on the social partners to share our analyses of the economic and social situation and to address new measures that will strengthen job creation and quality, assistance to the long-term unemployed, the implementation of the youth guarantee and the sustainability, within the framework of the Toledo Pact, of our public pension system. The same can be said of the educational model, from primary education to the university itself. The opportunity for a definitive national pact for education is open to us. I invite you to work constructively for a stable model that meets the needs of each student, that guarantees equal opportunities, but above all that focuses on efficiency and quality. With these objectives, in the first month of government, as I agreed with Citizens, I will propose to this House the creation of a parliamentary subcommission that allows for the elaboration of a consensus agreement within six months; an agreement that must also count on the consensus and collaboration of the educational community and must address, among other things, issues such as: a statute for teaching staff, the reform of the governance system of our universities, an educational reinforcement programme to combat school failure and the boost to vocational training, so that one hundred thousand pupils can access the dual vocational training system that is so successful. We also need an agreement on autonomous financing. Education, health care, dependency and other social services provided by the Autonomous Communities are, together with pensions, the basis of our social policy. Citizens are increasingly demanding an optimal level of quality of basic public services to which they can access on an equal basis. For this reason, I suggest to all the groups in this House, and very singularly to the Socialist Party - which, like the People's Party, governs in a large part of the autonomous communities - that we open up the negotiation of a stable and sufficient system of territorial financing, a model that ensures equality and solidarity between the Spanish and preserves public contingency services such as electoral cycles and times of good times or economic recession. Obviously, this reflection cannot be done behind the back or outside the administrations directly involved. Therefore, my Government will immediately address the preparatory work for the convening of a Conference of Autonomous Presidents in the Senate. This forum will have to produce a shared diagnosis of the situation of our autonomous model and its financial sufficiency, as well as an update of the principles of solidarity and cooperation that have marked its development to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment to clean up public life and the proper functioning of our institutions concerns us all here. Today, citizens can no doubt see that there is no impunity for corruption in Spain. I will spare you the list of the many legislative improvements that my Government has adopted in this field. They are instruments that are now making crime prevention and the task of judges more effective, but, as I have heard on more than one occasion, in this endeavour we can never be fully satisfied, let alone complete the task. I have always been open to promoting as many reforms as necessary to strengthen citizens' confidence in politics and make it an increasingly transparent and exemplary activity. As you know, we agreed with Citizens on a package of anti-corruption measures that I raised with them in the debate last August. The compromise then remains in force now, as does my offer to the rest of the groups to enrich the agreement with their contributions. I realize this invitation from the humility and recognition of the cases that have starred people of my party, but also from the certainty that in this field, as in none in life, no one can boast of infallibility. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that none of these agreements will be easy. They will require a great effort, not less than the size of the tasks or less than their importance for the well-being of the Spaniards. Fortunately, we don't start from scratch, ladies and gentlemen. We have in Spain the experience of having been able to understand ourselves in matters and in exceptional times for our own democratic architecture, our membership and commitment to the European Union or the defense of our system of rights and freedoms and the fight against jihadist terrorism. Now is the time to strengthen these agreements that already exist. At this point, allow me to stop at the most serious challenge that Spain has at the moment and which affects its unity, national sovereignty and the equality of all Spaniards. I am referring to the secessionist challenge that some are putting forward in Catalonia. My position is well known. I made it clear in the debate on 30 August. I will remind you of a few things that I said at the time and that I will always defend: that the only sovereign people in Spain are those who make up the whole of the Spanish; that no one, neither the Government, nor the General Courts, nor any other power of the State, can deprive the Spanish people of their exclusive, I repeat, exclusive right to decide on their future or on their territory. [[Applauds]] ; that my first obligation as a representative, like all your ladies and gentlemen, of the Spanish people and as President of the Government, if I obtain the confidence of the House, is to defend that national sovereignty and, with it, the unity of Spain, the equality of Spaniards and respect for the law and fundamental rights. [[Applauds]] And I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that I will comply with that obligation, and that I will do so at all times by seeking understanding among the groups that share the defence of the principles enshrined in the Constitution. In these years I have maintained and maintain my readiness for dialogue and cooperation with the Generalitat de Catalunya. I have tried to respond to the real needs of Catalans, because what concerns them concerns me and I care. I have always valued their capacity to welcome, their dynamism and their diversity as elements that make up and enrich ours, and I am willing to look for formulas that better accommodate the necessary interterritorial solidarity, but the first step towards solutions that are more just is through respect for the legality and rights of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have no time to waste. We have challenges ahead, many, and we must also overcome the effects of the political blockade of these months and catch up as soon as possible on our obligations to the Spanish and our European partners. Matters that were not urgent have ended up being pressing, and those that were already, are even more pressing. Therefore, in the coming days, if you give me your confidence, we will refer to both Houses the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt, as well as the state's non-financial spending limit. These subjects will also demand our agreement, but the budgetary cycle does not end there, it must be completed in its entirety with the approval of the General Budgets of the State for 2017. I do not need to explain to you that the State accounts are the key part of our country's and others' economic policy, first, because they ultimately determine the fate of 43 per cent of the wealth that we are able to generate between each year - the gross domestic product - and, second, because they summarise in figures the orientation of economic policy that ensures growth and job creation. Nor do I need to explain to you that it is my duty to ensure compliance with the commitments made with Europe, to respect the path of fiscal consolidation agreed with the European Union and to control the public deficit, because it is best for Spain and because we already know the worst of its consequences, if we do not, in terms of loss of confidence and destruction of employment. Budgetary stability must remain a commitment that is respected by the Government and not ignored in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, in my opinion, matters in which, if we were able to work together, we would take a very important step forward in defence of the interests of all Spaniards. As you may have seen, I did not want to give this speech a detailed programme of government or a comprehensive catalogue of measures. In any case, I am at your disposal to deepen tomorrow in any sectoral or territorial aspect of your interest. Today I have preferred to refer to the major national objectives, those of today and those of tomorrow, because, as I have pointed out before, it is essential that we agree to address them jointly. I repeat that these are also matters which in some cases not only exceed one session, but the capacity of any Government, and which are decisive for the future of a country for generations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that we are entering a new political stage. I know that any law, any reform, any project that may come to this House in the future will have to be the result of agreement, negotiation, assignment and understanding. We must assume the need for dialogue, not as an uncomfortable toll, but as an opportunity to consolidate comprehensive and lasting reforms, and also to put aside the slogans of the electoral struggle to advance in the design of solutions to the problems of our compatriots. I am not hidden from the difficulties and foreseeable pitfalls that this task offers, neither to me nor to my group. We are also aware of the seriousness of the commitment we are making, but I have not come to this rostrum to seek personal or partisan benefit, but to fulfil my responsibility as I see it. Perhaps some may have thought that the difficulties in governing and the horizon of being able to improve our position in new elections could lead us to evade our responsibility, but we are not going to do so. At the moment, in the circumstances of Spain, no consideration of party conveniences seems lawful to me. The Spaniards did not give us their vote to do small politics, but to use it in the best possible way in their service, that is, to carry out what we promised and what the citizens expected us to do. That's what we're up for. The People's Party is not an end, but a means, a tool at the service of society. If I asked the Spanish today what they would like to do with that tool, their answer would certainly be diaphanous: we want to use this instrument to form a government now, without further delay. And this - which they already want a government - is all I need to know; and this - forming that government - is what I am trying to do. I have a duty to put an end to this situation, to avoid a new election, and I do so as soon as I have realized that circumstances have changed. Ladies and gentlemen, that is my duty, but it is not only mine, I share it with all of you. It seems fair and reasonable that those who do not really wish to repeat the elections should support this solution. This does not mean that no one's will is forced or that no one has to give up his principles. The exceptional circumstances call for all ideological confrontations to be set aside and efforts to be combined in an exceptional way, because this is an unprecedented situation that is unprecedented. And if we did not do so, this investiture session would not have been held or would have failed and we would all be engaged in repeated elections. Ladies and gentlemen, if this investiture comes forward, we should open a new stage of responsible contribution to what is everyone's responsibility and needs everyone's cooperation. What we have in our hands is something very serious, because the consequences of our decisions affect the well-being of all. In addition, they design the image of Spain in the world and are always decisive for the destiny of the entire nation. We are talking about the common good and, in order to avoid vagueness, allow me to make it concrete. Today, this month, the common good is that Spain fulfils its commitments to Europe as soon as possible to maintain within it the position that the Spaniards deserve, all this in order to better meet their commitments to the citizens, in particular the most urgent ones, those that are at the basis of all others, because they are their foundation and guarantee: economic growth and job creation. The common good, the general interest, is now being realized in taking the steps that Spain urgently demands to resume vigorously the path of recovery and to leave behind the consequences of lost time. This is a shared responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. It would not be well understood that someone intended to turn his back on him or, less so, wished to hinder him. I am very clear that, given the composition of the House and the predictable support, the Government I intend to form may be far from meeting the conditions of solidity, governability and stability that I demanded in the past investiture debate and since 21 December. This will be the case, unless the House itself and its constituent groups assume that not only the interests of the Spanish but their particular interests demand a stable and capable government. Ladies and gentlemen, the absence of parliamentary pacts does not mean that we can settle with a government in which no matter how or for what. Flaco favor we would do the Spaniards by letting them believe that it is enough to cover the government's vacancy for everything to be resolved. The Government of the Kingdom of Spain cannot be a mere process, it must serve for the Spanish to solve their problems. I suppose we all wish for our country a government that can inspire trust, that is reliable, that has the capacity to make decisions at the pace required by the circumstances, both in Spain and in Europe. I guess there's no one here who wants the opposite. Spain does not benefit from surprises, improvisations or uncertainties. If we don't know how to clear them, we're wasting our time. And employment, like the economy, is not resolved in twenty-four hours, nor is good will enough, ladies and gentlemen. Any of the tasks awaiting the Government requires sustained and sustained work. In the past debate, he points out the following: 'either we are able to make a persistent effort or it will be impossible to achieve what we all want; either we act responsibly or we will be deceiving the Spaniards by making them believe that in Spain we can engage with an ephemeral government'. Well, this means that if the Government is in a minority and does not in itself have the strength or stability that Spain needs, it will have to seek collaborations to achieve them. I have assumed that every day we will have to build a majority for governability. That is why we need a Government open to dialogue. That's what I'm offering. I am prepared to negotiate as much as necessary all the decisions. I will do everything in my power so that we can work together for the good of the Spaniards. There will be no time for me to listen or respond to the concerns of your ladies and gentlemen. Be absolutely certain that I will be able to interpret what the Spaniards have said. What I hope from everyone is that, being subject, as Members, to the same responsibility to look for the good of the Spaniards, they take on the same commitment. I'm done, Madam President. We've let go of ten months that won't be useless at all if we've learned something. Fortunately, it is not too late, we have not crossed the barrier of irremediable. Spain retains its momentum and we are in time to strengthen confidence, inject new energies and sweep into the shadow of instability. I trust that we will be able to give the Spaniards the government that society demands and the support that the size of the tasks requires. For all this I request the votes of your ladies and gentlemen on my candidature. I do not know what difficulties will arise on the path of the future Government; they will certainly not be small or small. My group, my party and myself are, all of us, ready to face them and to endure the sacrifices that are necessary. I don't know if it's what suits us best as a group or what harms us most. I don't know if we'd be better off waiting for better times. I am not interested in these considerations, I just need to know that Spain needs it now, and that is for the People's Party reason enough. [[Prolonged applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to pay a price, for no other reason will we do so with greater pride than for the good of Spain. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-26-CD161026.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. on Thursday 27 October. It was six and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
