ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate and in accordance with all the parliamentary groups, I would like to state, on behalf of the whole House, that gender-based violence is a social tragedy that we must fight until it is completely eradicated. Since the Congress of Deputies, in a sign of condemnation and in memory of all the women who have been victims, especially of the two women murdered in the last forty-eight hours in our country, I beg you to keep a minute of silence as a message of unity in the rejection of all the political forces represented here in front of the murderers and the abusers. [[The ladies and gentlemen, standing up, keep a minute of silence.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies is meeting to comply with Article 99.3 of the Constitution and to submit to a second vote the proposal of candidate Don Mariano Rajoy Brey for the Presidency of the Government. The session will begin with a pre-vote debate, which, given that the Constitution imposes a period of 48 hours, will in no case take place before nineteen hours and forty-five minutes. In accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the candidate may intervene for a maximum of ten minutes and the parliamentary groups for five minutes each to determine their position. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor again in the process of this investiture with the confidence that at the end of the session we can announce to the Spaniards that Spain has a government, that the interim period has ended, that the main source of uncertainty has disappeared and that we are finally in a position to restart the march. I am not going to entertain you for long, ladies and gentlemen, just the one essential for making some considerations about the meaning and responsibility of the vote. First, I would like to express my appreciation to the Citizens' Group and its leader, Albert Rivera, as well as to Ana Oramas of the Canary Coalition, who have helped put an end to this period of uncertainty. Also to the People's Party and the formations with which we are in coalition and which have accompanied me all this time, the Union of the Navarro People, the Asturias Forum and the Aragonese Party. I would also like to add that I am fully aware of what last Thursday's vote means at all its extremes, as well as what others have announced for today. Having said that, the first consideration I want to convey to all of you is that Spain needs more than just an investiture. It needs a government that is in a position to govern, not to be governed, but to govern. I am not asking for a blank cheque, as you know; I am just asking for a government, which is not the same. Today does not conclude this story, ladies and gentlemen, today it begins; today we draw the path of the future, of that future for which the lack of a majority makes us all responsible. It is up to us all to ensure for Spain not only the instrument of government that needs, but its capacity, which is as much as to say its effectiveness. The vote of investiture is not a discharge of responsibility, it is not that; it must be, above all, a commitment of the future and a commitment for all. The policy of any sensible government admits only one direction and must be marked by the government, it is for that and it is voted for; it is implicit in the gesture of voting, if we are faced with a responsible gesture. Everyone is aware that it is not possible to govern with several criteria at a time, as it is not possible to govern with two simultaneous budgets. We have survived three hundred days of government in office, but we could not survive a government that does not rule because it lacks support or obstacles. The price would be ruinous. To vote responsibly in favour of the investiture therefore implies a commitment to try to build, especially in those matters which are transcendental to the well-being of the Spaniards; matters which, by the way, have nothing to do with the colour of the government, as is the case with European commitments or budgetary stability. Would the commitments made not be fulfilled if it were to govern another political formation? Would budgetary stability be broken if others were governed? This is everyone's responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, not just mine. I add that, as is obvious, when you can't control revenue and public spending you simply can't govern. You and I know that it is unreasonable to rule without budgets and we must all be consistent. There is no point in proclaiming that it will be easier for Spain to have a Government if it is not prepared to provide it with its main working tool. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeated this in my speech last Thursday to the point of satiety: none of this that I claim will be possible without agreements. I have offered an open readiness for dialogue and a sincere will for understanding, and I have not done so today for the first time or forty-eight hours ago; I did so on 21 December, the day after the elections. I understood then where we were, took good note of the will of the Spaniards and acted accordingly. Since then, I insist, I have not ceased to raise the need to understand ourselves. I'm the main interested one that we're looking for and reaching agreements. I am willing to correct everything that deserves correction, to improve everything that is improveable and to give in to everything that is reasonable. I will spare neither time nor dedication; we need a government that governs and I will work that governance every day. Ladies and gentlemen, dialogue, yes, everything, but let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, nor do we intend to take things beyond what circumstances allow. We must negotiate within the limits that reality imposes on us all, which have nothing to do with the colour of the Government or its strength or weakness. Limits don't vary. I am not allowed to negotiate the unity of Spain or the equality of the Spanish, nor to breach our commitments to the European Union, just as I am not allowed to break budgetary stability. It would be useless to pretend that these subjects are subject to negotiation: neither can I nor can anyone. I say more, it is the responsibility of everyone who is not subject to discussion, that we comply with the laws, that we respect the rules and be loyal to our commitments. To all this I add that there is a limit that depends only on me, a limit that I quickly impose. I do not intend to access the Government to carry out any kind of policy, I am not prepared to take down what was built; it can certainly be improved, but I cannot accept its demolition. Let no one expect me to contribute to hurting economic recovery and job creation. I won't do that damage to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] It makes no sense to liquidate all the reforms; let us improve the way we can, but let us not prevent Spain from remaining the country that grows the most in Europe and creates the most jobs. Is this bad? Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the Government to persevere and some people reproach me for it. I know that some people want to turn around the policies we have developed, but others would have to take over the Government for that. You cannot pretend to rule me and betray my own political project, which was also the most supported by the Spaniards. Don't ask me or pretend to impose what I can't accept. As I said at the outset, I fully understand the unprecedented situation we are in, but I hope that you too will understand that the investiture is not sustained and that the resulting Government will not be spared. I am saying this today so that no one will call us in deception and neither will we deceive the Spaniards. I am not asking for a vote for a multi-use or unorthodox government. I have a task on my back, a result on my hand and a purpose on the front. That's what we're solving in this investiture process. Not support for an abstract Government, not to fill the gap in a vacancy, not to replace an inert position in the State Administration. The investiture is voted on to a candidate who comes up with a project. It is with that project that I ask for the confidence of the House. It is to that project that trust is given. I do not ask for the moon, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a predictable government, which means that its broad lines are known from the beginning, that it announces in advance what is going to happen and especially what is not going to happen so that everyone knows what to stick to. And I'm done, Madam President. They open up to all Spaniards great prospects if we do not spoil them, either because there is no government, or because they are not allowed to govern, which gives both. Not only will the government go ahead, ladies and gentlemen, it will be all of Spain. There are countless business decisions, capital investments, entrepreneurs' initiatives that have been waiting for months to clear the picture. I repeat: pending the clearing of the picture, that is to say, the offering of something more than a naked investiture. Let us be consistent, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone who thinks that the absolute majority of others are not good - and I think there are many here who think so - should be more concerned than anyone to prove that Spain can be governed, and well governed, even if there is no absolute majority. Anyone who thinks that absolute majorities are harmful should be the first to show that Spanish politicians are capable of agreeing because there must be no lack of support in the House to carry out the tasks. I invite you to see how things go as best as possible for the Spaniards, within what allows for circumstances that are not easy for anyone. I do not ask - I repeat - a blank cheque, ladies and gentlemen. I ask for maturity; I ask for the consequences of that step to be accepted when one step is taken; I ask that we can all tell the Spaniards that they are going to have a government that governs, not by its own strength, but because in the House they must not lack the support to carry out the tasks. That is what is called a responsible opposition in Europe. For my part, I insist, there are two mistakes that I will not make: the first, forget the limitations that reality imposes on me; and the second, waste the opportunities that the juncture offers us. I request, ladies and gentlemen, a government that does not ruin the good prospects offered by the coming years, because our first aim must be to consolidate what has been achieved, to continue to improve, to maintain the pace of employment, to take advantage of opportunities and not to defraud the credit that is still being given to us. To this end, I request the House's confidence in the government program that my candidacy represents. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u4	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hernando Vera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, candidate for the presidency of the Government, today the political blockade in Spain is over after a year and that is possible thanks to the fact that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party assumes its responsibility by abstaining. We do this to prevent third elections, we do it so that the institutions do not continue to deteriorate and that our democracy is no longer delegated. But, Mr Rajoy, the citizens know this and so do you: neither you nor your project have our confidence. We believe that it is not the president that Spain deserves, but that much less we need third elections. We do not do this to validate his odious reforms or to forgive his party's serious corruption or to allow him to further undermine the rights of workers, women or young people. We do not do this so that you can delve into the breakdown of our country's social or territorial cohesion. As of today you are no longer in function and you no longer have the absolute majority that you have been simulating throughout this year. You are in a clear minority, Mr Rajoy, and under the close supervision of this entire Congress. And that is what the Socialist Party is going to do, to monitor every step it takes and to approve the initiatives at the head of a majority that is neither its own nor any group in this House. You have been in office for more than three hundred days, so that of the hundred days of courtesy in this case is not going to be a mere formalism. We're going to demand government responsibility from the first day, from next Monday. Two days ago you responded to my request to remove the invalids with the commitment to paralyze their effects. The educational community and we recognize his gesture, but we believe it is clearly insufficient. We demand that you stop Lomce and make it clear that students are not going to have to face improvised invalids and that high school students are going to be able to enter the university by passing the entrance exams. Do so now, Mr Rajoy, because neither the students nor the teachers nor the schools nor the institutes have been in office for two months now. As I said the other day, we are going to introduce laws to recover civil and social rights, to rebalance labour relations, to guarantee pensions, to fight against inequality and poverty, to restore wounds in the welfare state, to advance the regeneration of our democracy. We are also ready to appreciate the initiatives that you bring, that your Government will bring, that your parliamentary group will present to these Courts. But if they want to approve them with the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Rajoy, they will have to convince us that they are positive for Spain and for Spanish citizens, because otherwise we will fight them and try to defeat them democratically; they will have our strongest opposition. Mr Rajoy, in my speech last Thursday I spoke to you about Catalonia and you spoke to me about dialogue, and I say to you that, if that is so, you start to dialogue already, in November better than in December, because the fracture and the distance between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, not only political but emotional and social, is simply unsustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have a duty to face the great challenges and challenges facing Spain. That is why the Socialist Party is going to make a firm and serious opposition, because serious are the problems facing the Spanish every day. Look, in the last few weeks and perhaps especially in the last few days, Mr Rajoy, you have been able to fantasize about enjoying an opposition of screams and chascarillos, of Twitter and t-shirts, of legislative texts that would not make a first-rate student of law, of irresponsible abandonment of the job. Perhaps you could have dreamed of an opposition that sells easy, magical, miraculous, fanciful solutions; that is, impossible solutions. If that was his dream, I tell him to wake up from it, to wake up and give up all hope because they will have the opposition of the men and women of the Socialist Party, that we will act with the rigour of those who have ruled Spain during their best years and with the wisdom and courage of those who aspire to build a progressive alternative that deserves the majority confidence of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u6	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Your speech, Mr Rajoy, is summed up in the sentence: 'I will not change anything'. You said you'd persevere. Let me tell you that this attitude is going to turn your legislature, Mr Rajoy, into an epilogue. The result of your party in the last elections did not allow you to be president and an operation had to be articulated; an operation to expose Citizens as a regenerating force and an operation to destroy the Socialist Party inside and finally to humiliate it today. You acted in that operation as a stone guest, did nothing, sat to wait, let the elites and their apparatus organize the operation. Those elites tried to get you out of the way to make it easy for Citizens and the Socialist Party: another – without a past – candidate for the People's Party. You proved to be a good politician because you resisted, but you proved to be enormously disloyal to our country's political system because you left him wounded to death. Ending turnism, which was the basis of the sustainability of our political system, unmasking Citizens, you have laid the foundations for us to win the elections sooner or later, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] However, Mr President, that is not the crucial thing, that is not the most important thing. Calm down, ladies and gentlemen; if I believe that it is better for you than for anyone that this is quick and painless. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] The important thing is something else, and I would ask you to reflect calmly and without prejudice. Spain has changed, ladies and gentlemen, and has changed in a different direction from yours. You're going to represent an epilogue. There is a new country, there is a new young and modern Spain, which is not afraid because it suffers, who knows what it is to suffer unemployment, who knows what it is to suffer precariousness when it has to work, who knows what it is to emigrate to seek life or to be able to investigate in a decent university center. There is a young Spain that knows what evictions are, a Spain that cannot be allowed, like many of you, private health or private education and has to defend public services. There is a new country that does not understand why the national identity plurality of our country is not respected. There is a new country of women who are already tired of talking only about formal equality, who want real equality, equal wages, equality in paternity and maternity leave, who want to be able to interrupt a pregnancy in 21st century Spain in a dignified way. [[Applauds]] There is a new Spain that knows that what effort means, ladies and gentlemen, and because they have had to strive to get what they have, they do not tolerate - and stay with this word, they do not tolerate - corruption, they do not conform to corruption. That Spain does not think that corruption is inevitable, it understands that it can be perfectly avoided if there is will because they and they have lived without fear and otherwise. There is a new Spain that does not believe what the old newspapers say, that reads, that is reported, that has a critical way of seeing things, and that is what has changed in this country in recent years. There is a new country, a new Spain that wants our country to be industrialized, that wants our country to respect national diversity and that articulates institutional and democratic mechanisms that allow it, that wants to defend our country's social rights, public services and sovereign dignity in the face of foreign powers. [[Applauds]] That country, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, sooner or later, is going to win, and we aspire to be simply a political instrument for that. Now it will be up to us to be in the opposition, but when it touches us, we will be prepared to win him the elections and to rule in the service of that new Spain. Good luck in your epilogue, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. [[applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, standing.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion embraces Mr. Errejón Galván, Mrs. Montero Gil and Mr. Spinar Merino.-Various Members of the People's Parliamentary Group: Oh!-Mr. Montero Gil: Better love than corruption]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u8	Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[applause.-Continue the rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u9	Thank you, President, Mrs. Irene Montero shouted: you can have love without corruption. Of course I do, Mrs. Montero. You don't have to choose between love and corruption, some of us can have love without corruption. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You are not the only ones who have no corruption in this House. But let's get to the serious issues. On October 26, 2015, the government convened the elections by December 20, 2015, and it has been more than a year since that date; a year when the Spanish have seen how their institutions were blocked, they have seen how they had to go twice, they have seen the inability of some to agree, they have seen political groups voting not, not and not always, as a socialist leader or a popular leader, so that there would be no change in this country. And I tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: neither the workers who charge 700 euros and do not arrive at the end of the month can wait, nor the dependent sick can continue to see cuts - and we must stop those cuts - nor the entrepreneurs can continue to have obstacles to start their business, nor those who want to invest in our country can think that this country does not start up; neither our sick nor our elderly. The Spaniards can't wait any longer, and that's why today Citizens come up to this rostrum with the pride of being the only party that has collaborated since the first day that this country started, with a candidate of the Socialist Party proposed by the king, with a candidate of the People's Party proposed by the king, because we believe that if one day we want to govern this country we have to start doing things for this country, even when one is not the candidate. [[Applauds]] I have listened carefully to Mr Rajoy, candidate and future president, if this House chooses him. Don't be afraid; don't be afraid, nothing happens; it's a legislature without an absolute majority. I saw him put on the bandage again before the wound. It's okay, Mr. Rajoy; if you meet the demands of Citizens this will go well; it's okay. [[Applauds]] There's no need to wear the bandage before the wound. I was telling you the other day that there are European countries governed without an absolute majority for a hundred years, and nothing happens; now, yes, you can't do the same as in recent years, and we also have to expel from public life the Bárcenes, the Gürtel, the Puyols, three percent, the EREs and all those undesirable and corrupt cases that have plagued the institutions. And we will have to investigate here in Parliament what happened to the possible illegal financing of your party, yes, but we will also have to take steps to ensure that it does not happen again, and we will have to clean up public life, by legislating and not shouting, because to change things we have to work. Mr. Iglesias, I give you bad news: from now on we have to work. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]] We have to work, we have to introduce laws that have a decent content, as Mr Hernando said, we have to amend, we have to reach agreements, because surely many of your voters will want the vote to be approved in this House, and you will have to work; many of your voters will surely want the electoral law to be changed, and you will have to come to work, and many other things that we have in common with the electoral program of Podemos, the Socialist Party or the People's Party. [[Rumors]] So, what you're playing now - luckily for those of you who want to start working - is work, although others may be more expensive. [[Rumors]] In any case, we are prepared to reach out to all the groups in this House, because from now on, whoever will mark - whether the government likes it or not - the line of this legislature will be Parliament. Parliament takes power from the Government, and the Government will have to be accountable to Parliament. That is something the Spanish voted for. It is not a decision of Citizens, nor of the People's Party, nor of the PSOE, nor of Podemos; it has been voted twice by the Spanish, so the best thing we could do is to learn from our compatriots, who have taught us a lesson and told us that there is no more time left, but that no one thinks this will be easy. Who said this was easy? It will not be easy, Mr Rajoy, but I insist that if we are able to work - and we are going to work for Spain, not only for our party, as we have shown - we will succeed. Finally, I'd like to bring here a sentence of John Fitzgerald's president of the United States. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Suárez]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u11	John Fitzgerald Kennedy said: change is the law of life. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u13	Google it, Mr. Churches: John Fitzgerald Kennedy. [[Laughter and applause]] John Fitzgerald Kennedy said that change is the law of life, and that anyone who looks only at the past or the present is going to lose the future; and the future, ladies and gentlemen, begins now. So let's stop looking at the past, let's start looking at the future, and above all let's look at the future together, because the Spaniards wouldn't forgive us that in this legislature the only goal was to win votes or seats. The only objective, ladies and gentlemen, is for Spain to work. We don't think we're that important, that the ones that are really important are the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u14	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor. [[Prolonged Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u15	President, ladies and gentlemen, candidate Rajoy, mother-in-law Rivera, Mrs Susana Díaz Richelieu, Mr Felipe 'Gonzalex', a greeting wherever they are. [[Laughter]] Gentlemen of PSOE Iscariot, you have been giving one lime and one sand for forty years. But today is too much; too much for the socialists of the heart, the socialists of the heart to whom we want to give our voice today. Socialists like Ruben, who says to them: The founders of the PSOE revolt in their graves, never again call themselves socialists, never again call themselves workers; traitors is the only name they deserve. [[Protests]] Or like José Antonio: I want you to know that my mother is 51 years old, works scrubbing floors for less than 4 euros an hour, and cries every time she sees them on TV betraying her. [[Mr. Madina Muñoz: But leave it at once!-Protests]] I just got started. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Mr. Madina. Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u17	He still has a few left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u18	One second, Mr. Rufian, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that I have the floor, and the rest of the ladies and gentlemen, what we have to do is be silent. Go on, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u19	Or like Laura, Mr.Madina: My grandfather died with the card in his hand and socialism in his heart; if I saw them doing what they did today, my disgust and my anger would be very short. Or like Antonio, who says to them: And now how do I explain this to my children? Or as Armando, who says to them: I charge 884 euros for 168 hours a month, live with this a season, and they will pass the urge to press that button. These are your people, your people. Do you have any answers for them? Anything? Don't you? Lords of the PSOE anonymous society, does it not embarrass you that you only have left the place where you sit on the boards of administration of the electrics? Aren't you ashamed to bow to the designs of a chief...? [[Rumors]] [[Protests.-Mr. Madina Muñoz makes gestures to the Madam President]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Rumors]] One second, Mr. Rufian. One second. Go on, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u21	He said: is it not embarrassing to bend the designs of a leader who governs the autonomous community with one of the highest unemployment and failure rates in Europe? Is it not embarrassing for them to give power to one of the most reactionary parties in Europe, together with the savage neoliberal brother-in-law, who, for example, says that he is against lowering veterinary VAT because there is syphilis in Barcelona? This is the level of these people. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u23	The good news is that, after today's debate, the only surprise that Spanish politics is to know in which military party Mr Toni Cantó in the next parliamentary term. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Aren't they ashamed to be republican, but monarchical; socialist, but neoliberal; workers, but on boards of administration; and of the left, but giving power to the right? [[Rumors]] I warn you that the PP white mark market is saturated, especially between the orange cynics and their split ForoCars. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u24	Quiet, please. You have to finish, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u25	Doesn't it embarrass you to betray your people so much that even a counselor from Abengoa, whom you kicked, seems left-wing again? Doesn't it embarrass them to pass from the 'if you don't go they'll come back' to the 'don't go that we already bring them to you'? Doesn't it embarrass you to give the rule of your country to those who chase ballot boxes and hide Jaguars? Is it not embarrassing to give the governability of your country to those who receive with hugs rich in private jets and with balls to the poor in the sea, swimming? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u26	Mr. Rufian, I have to cut off your microphone now, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u27	I'm done. If you do this to your secretary general and his militia, imagine what they won't do to people. And I end up addressing once again the fellow Churches and Domènech. Comrades, you were right, bipartisanism is dead... [[applause.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u28	Time's up, Your Honor. Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. The first is that you have been unable to generate a sufficient majority to carry out the investiture with laziness and an absolute majority. That should make you think that if you go on in the same ways, in the same ways, you're going to fail, and that failure can't blame others, it's going to be your own failure. And I have to be honest with you, your speech today has alarmed me, because it does not seem that the forms have changed at all. You said, "Give in whatever is reasonable." Of course, reasonableness is always yours. His speech has been full of: I won't give in to this, I won't give in to the other, I won't give in... It hasn't been open: I'm willing to open, I'm willing to change things, but mine can't be changed, and swallow others. I think it's a mistake. It would also be a mistake for a government to function as that of the four years ago. Based on what? Based on a legal aristocracy, in the army of state lawyers, based on legal rigidity, ultimately denying politics. They are now talking about the need for a political government, and it is true, but a political government is not as some of its colleagues in the press say, a government that communicates better, that gives better image in the press. A political government consists of those people who are imaginative to find solutions, who are condescending and capable of reaching agreements. If you continue to rely on the legal aristocracy and that: I will not give in, I will not give in, I fear you will not make much progress. I follow the conclusions. The Basque Nationalist Party keeps its word, and as we said, we will vote again not on this occasion. We will vote again not for his actions in these five years, judicializing politics, not responding to the concerns that were being transferred to him by the Basque institutions and promoting an idea of a state and a nation that denies others. Euskadi, Mr President, is no longer an autonomous community. The Basques are a nation, and in the Spanish Constitution itself the foral fact is recognized in the first additional provision. And the foral fact goes far beyond, even if you don't believe it, the Economic Concert, it doesn't exhaust itself in the Economic Concert, it extends to the whole Statute of Autonomy, let's talk about police, education or anything else. The foral fact is based on an important maximum, and it is the agreement between the parties, the non-imposition, the agreement between the parties. Euskadi is a nation. We will vote today not, and in a month's time, on November 30th, Saint Andrew's Day, the day of the Battle of Padura, we will celebrate in all the batzokis, as we have always been doing, precisely that Euskadi is a nation and that it wants to be treated like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u30	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Homs Molist.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. candidate, in your speech you made a statement of principles which confirms us in our not at your investiture, and not in capital letters. First of all, in your opinion, we are all responsible, but you are alone in the government and obviously not the rest. Congratulations, Mr Rajoy, I'll tell you again. Secondly and most worryingly: I will not change anything or anything; that is what you have told us here today in a clear and diaphanous way. Lords of Citizens, Socialist Lords, who saw them and who sees them. He says - and I share it - that there is no democracy without law, but, Mr Rajoy, much less there is law without democracy. In Spain there has always been law, but not always democracy, as you well know. It is true that in this house it has always been legislated. The Catalonian Parliament has only opened when there was democracy. I do not know if there will come from there some of the differences that I find between you and us about democracy and law. I don't know if they're coming from there. It gives the feeling that for you democracy, what people vote has always to adapt to the law, as you interpret it. For us, democracy, what people vote for, serves precisely to change the law. There's the difference in how we see it and how you see it. I'm done, Madam President. Catalonia will make its way, Mr Rajoy, through democracy and the law. A dialogue will depend on you. The fate of the dialogue is above your back, but I tell you - and I want to leave it also for this coming future - that the future of Catalonia will not be decided by you, by the Catalans. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. As today is going to be the end of the big operation that will politically amnesia the corruption of the PP, it is no longer necessary to make a little memory. Sobs, sobs. [[Showing one]] Sometimes they contain unrecognizable things, sometimes they contain black money to pay out, but that - remember - happened a long time ago, a long time ago, as you like to remember Mr Rajoy or the minister in the dark, or not, because the Galician, in addition to being impassive, is unpredictable. [[Rumors]] The Galician with all due respect. With all my respect, with all my respect, with all my respect. I'm the Valencian. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u35	There are envelopes that bring good news, such as this one. [[Show it.]] And the winner is... no, it's not Pedro, he didn't leave the Federal Committee. This isn't Los Angeles, this is Madrid. The winner is Mariano Rajoy, thanks to the votes given by Citizens and to the shameful abstention of the PSOE. So let me remind you both of a couple of things. The candidate has said that he does not intend to repeal anything. Do you know that you have been given the button of the dissolution of the Courts for when it is necessary? You know that? And to the virtual president who accused me of wanting to stand as a spokesman for all the Valencians, I say to him: I renounce. I give it a chance to be you. You only have to fulfill three things: the law, your word and what has been approved here today. For example, the reform of the financing system, which by law had to be approved in 2015, which you announced. I've got three seconds left. When the new General State Budgets are adopted, include that reform of the Valencian Statute, adopted by 298 votes in favour. For example, the reform of the funding system you announced. Finally, the Valencia programme contract, which was also approved in this House. Mr Rajoy, do that and I - I tell you - will recognize you with all elegance. Oh, I forgot! Commitment has not changed: no, of course. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u37	Thank you, Madam President. The good thing about the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is that you can trust its word: we are always certain that they will not fulfill it. My name is Oskar Matute and I am a deputy for Euskal Herria Bildu. I was born in Baracaldo in 1972 and in those days PSOE's then white hope, Felipe González, was already warming up in the band. The Congress of Suresnes was held on 11 October 1974. The PSOE signs the right of self-determination of nations and the defense of class struggle. Of course, then they were still socialists. On 1 December 1982 Felipe González arrived at the Presidency of the Government. The change, he said. A year later, the LAGs were born. I celebrate my eleven years, and ten days later civilian guards kill Lasa and Zabala. It still smells like live lime. [[Rumors and Protests]] On March 12, 1986, the PSOE, which had said 'no', celebrated the victory of NATO's yes. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u38	Quiet, please. One second. One second, Mr. Matute. I'll stop your time. One second. Please, be quiet. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u39	The PSOE, which had said 'no' entry, celebrates the victory of yes to NATO. My country - the one that Minister Barrionuevo called the North Special Zone or experimental repressive laboratory - said no to NATO. From now on, labor reforms, door-kicking laws and thousands of insufferables in jails. On March 3, 1996, voters finally decided between the original and the copy, and left with the original: José María Aznar. Let's move on to the big coalition. In August 2007, the PSOE aborted the possibility of the change in Nafarroa, the 'agostaz'. On 1 April 2009, the PSOE and the PP negotiated with the Basque Government. On 21 June 2011, the PSOE and UPN negotiated with the Government of Nafarroa. On 27 September 2011, the PSOE and the PP negotiated the reform of article 135 of the Constitution and put us on our knees before the financial mafia. It is normal for people to go out for health and democratic hygiene to protest against the mafia, against all mafia. [[Rumors]] My name is Oskar Matute, I am forty-four years old and on this historic day of October 2016 I must congratulate, ladies and gentlemen, on the bench of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It has merit to liquidate in one afternoon a story of one hundred thirty-seven years and everything for nothing to change,...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u40	You have to finish, Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u41	Yeah, I'm done. ... because any change is possible only where you, lords of the People's Party, where you, lords of Citizens, and where you, lords of the Socialist Party, walk downhill and without brakes towards political irrelevance, as in Euskal Herria and Catalonia. [[Laughs.-Speaks.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u42	Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u43	Madam President of Congress, Mr. candidate and future President, congratulations. Members of the Executive, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament today end the black stage of Spanish politics of these ten months. Today it ends, but the important thing is that today we have to look to the future, not the past, to address what new technologies or social and economic changes are going to bring to Spain. No one denies the social reality of those who are manifesting out there today, but we also do not have to deny a real Spain: Spain of those who today filled the train from Pamplona to Madrid or those who crowded the roads leaving four days of deserved rest, Spain that makes the country better and move forward. To the catastrophic forces - which here are quite a few - let us leave them in their perpetual infantilism and celebrate a continuous Halloween, and the rest of the political groups, ladies and gentlemen, let us put ourselves to work for Spain and for the middle classes, which are at last the foundations of the progress and well-being of our society. [[Applauds]] , of a developed country like Spain; let us not forget. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your attention because there is an alarm. Yesterday in the Parliament of Navarra Bildu taught the patita, and with the shameful support of Geroa Bai, Podemos and United Left it was approved to redefine the new political status of Navarra. This in other words is nothing other than the beginning of the path of Navarra's annexation to Euskadi. [[Rumors]] UPN has been the bulwark against nationalism in Navarre for almost forty years. This is a relevant matter. It is an opportunity for the union of constitutionalists and democrats against those who want to break Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u44	You have to finish, Mr. Alli.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u45	We shall vote in favour of Mr Mariano Rajoy. A lot of luck and a lot of waist. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u46	Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, in just a few minutes you are expected to renew your term as President of the Government of Spain and will do so supported by the Forum, with the aim of ensuring that economic growth, job creation and the improvement of social welfare are a constant that reaches more and more Spaniards. Also for the next Government to open a new time, in which the duties of stability are done with respect to the constitutional principles of equality and solidarity among all autonomous communities without exception. We are pleased that the encroachment that prevented, during 2016, investing a government around the most voted candidature has been overcome, as has been done with the five predecessor presidents and their respective winning parties of the respective general elections. It is to be hoped that the blockade suffered in these ten months will not have continuity on the activities of these Courts and the work of deputies and senators, due to a lot of street unrest and a lot of voice opposition trying to supplant the democratic will expressed in the ballot box. We need it in Spain and, in particular, in Asturias immersed in the decline, paralyzed in its political management and which needs a profound change in order to take decisions that will allow us to recover the lost time in the provision of transport infrastructures, in the defense of key sectors such as basic industry and energy, in the equitable distribution and aid to our farmers and quotas to our fishermen and, ultimately, in the respect for a community that aspires to be nothing but none but that does not accept to continue being treated worse than the others. Your Government, Mr Rajoy, will have at the Forum the loyal support and collaboration to boost the measures of progress and social cohesion that the times demand. It is time to thank the patience of the Spaniards, passing to the urgency of the action of the rulers. Mr Rajoy, we wish you tenacity, constitutional firmness and correctness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u48	I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a novel by Aldous Huxley in which a parrot throughout the novel is continually saying 'here and now', to focus people on the moment and the place. I think today we have a huge responsibility. The first is to regain the confidence of the citizenry, because we have all lost it, but we also have to regain the dignity of this House and live up to the people who preceded us here, not only in the political transition but over so many years. It's a good school the Joint Group. It is different to be political opponent to political enemy. You can't talk, you can't negotiate, you can't take anything forward from hatred and grudge, especially when you're young and you have hatred and grudge. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] I end with the commitment to support the proposals of each group that are good for people and to bring this country forward. And there we will be to give stability, and also with a firm, determined commitment, to my people and to my Canary land, to regain state policies; to give young people an opportunity; to regain the dignity of non-contributory pensions, so important on my land; to allow tuna fishermen to have their share of bluefin tuna and to fish; to enable Canary farmers to continue to sell their bananas and tomatoes; to travel between the islands is not a luxury but, above all, to demand that the Canary Islands have a fair system of financing for health and social services like the rest of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u50	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, candidate for the presidency of the Government, Nueva Canarias has tried in these three consecutive debates to express a position with the utmost seriousness, very critical with its policies, as you know, because we believe that the facts have to be adhered to: its policies have not been the best for the social majority and, of course, have not been the best for the Canary Islands. We have told you that we are not in a position to support you because we cannot support your policies, but we have also told you that we cannot trust you and we have told you that because you have failed at the moment to comply with the just demands of the Canary Islands, well removed from the ultraperipheral cry and very close to the recognition of the rights that assist our people. It is also true that we told him in the last debate that time will have to show whether the fact that the possibility of more parliamentary roll is over opens some door to being able to understand ourselves in the defense of the general interest and, in our case, in the defense of the general interests of our land. After the first investiture speech we heard, the failure of a few months ago, we really believed that you were not seeking parliamentary support. We really thought he was working for a third election, because it seemed to us that it was not the right speech to come here to convince anyone of anything. In yesterday's speech, it seemed to us that you were opening your hand to a different way of doing things. He recognized the need for understanding and we already told him that, while skeptical, it seemed better that that was so. Today he has turned his speech upside down and has again used a hard tone, almost taking out his chest, in the sense that no one is moving me from here. Really, we trust we're wrong about this, Mr. Rajoy. As we check, we, New Canarias, do not have a single argument to support their policies in any case, so today we will say no to their investiture. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u53	Madam President, candidate for the Presidency of the Government and in very few hours, again and with the confidence of this House, President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we will be able to start a legislature after a long stage of blockade, paralysis and uncertainty. Three hundred and fifteen days of political interinidad and a situation that I believe must never be repeated again in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that it will be a complex legislature because we will do so with the most minority majority in recent history, but also with confidence, because we do so with a forged agreement with Citizens and other political formations that give us a 170-seat pact. A great agreement, a great pact that binds one another and also forces another. But also, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this, with humility, with the will of understanding and dialogue - yes - and the awareness that all of you - not only those who have 170 seats, all of you - have an obligation not only to say, but also to do. That is what we are committed to and we are going to commit ourselves to, and for that we are going to work from my parliamentary group. Therefore, utility and responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Everyone's responsibility. An agreement that we can all reach, as we did two weeks ago when we reformed the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and the Stability Law. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to avoid saying again to the citizens that when we go to the polls we despise what they say and their results if we do not like them. Fortunately, there will be no third elections in Spain. Rajoy will be president and will be because we take out many more seats than the others, something some seem to forget. Because, as always, in this Parliament and throughout the history of recent democracy, it governs who wins the elections and because it was decided by the Spaniards who gave greater support to our parliamentary group in June than in December of the previous year. That was simply because, thanks to the task of the People's Party Government in very difficult years, we returned to the country. A country that we received in recession; a country that was on the verge of intervention; a country in which, fortunately, there is talk of recovery today; a country where we were able to overcome the crisis to give a chance to many people who have found employment over the past few years. Ladies and gentlemen, since we hit the ground and the reforms that this government has made - reforms that criticized some both within this House and outside - came into effect, 1,892,000 people have found a new job in this country. Today, there are 817,000 more women than in February 2013 who have a job. Also, 178,000 young people under the age of 25 are working today more than those working at the time. The number of households with all unemployed members has fallen by 468,000 and today we are growing three times as many of our partners in the European Union, three times the EU average. This is due to the reforms of the Government and to the stories of overcoming that many Spaniards have played during this time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have a great opportunity for all of us to achieve these major national objectives; the first, as the President has said, is employment and growth so that we can get twenty million people back to work in Spain and give those four million people who are unfortunately still unemployed a chance and hope, so that family incomes and incomes of workers can be improved, and also that pensions can be sustained. Ladies and gentlemen, these are agreements that we need to strengthen and implement in order to strengthen the pension system, the welfare state and to achieve a new education for our young people and our children. We also need agreements on autonomous financing and also agreements, ladies and gentlemen, in order to keep in this House the memory of the victims of terrorism because the only ones, Mr Matute, who, unfortunately, at a time in this country's recent history, had to get on their knees were those - whom you know - who were on their knees in order to untie a shot in the back of their necks. [[Applauds]] That can never be repeated in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u54	Mr. Hernando, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u55	They are necessary agreements to maintain national sovereignty, equality of the Spaniards and fight against corruption, gender-based violence and also that suffered by children and, of course, that suffered by young people... [[applause continues]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u56	Mr. Hernando, I have to remove the microphone.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u57	I'm done, Madam President. Much remains to be done, ladies and gentlemen, but let me conclude by telling all of you that I am very proud to be the spokesman for a parliamentary group like ours, a large parliamentary group like the People's Parliamentary Group... [[Rumors.-Several Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party We can-In Comú Ponde-En Marea: Out, out!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.-Mr Hernando Vera asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u58	Yes, Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u59	Madam President, by Rule 71(3) in relation to 103 and 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u60	Mr Hernando, I would remind you that Article 71 does not give rise to an intervention shift and you have to sew me up the reference to which you wish to refer.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u61	Yes, Madam President, I am referring to all those expressions of hatred, which lack the honour and respect of my parliamentary group and the Socialist Party, pronounced by Mr Rufián to a party that has shed blood, sweat and tears so that today he is here saying... [[Strong applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, stood up.-Applause from the Basque Parliamentary Group (EAJ-PNV)]] - Strong rumors. - Strong protests.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u62	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Strong rumors and protests.-Protests continue]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Strong rumors.-Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary continues. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Montero. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Strong Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please, if I do not have to call you to order one by one. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, in accordance with Rule 71, Mr. Rufián: do you withdraw or do you not withdraw what Mr. Hernando has requested?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u63	I'd be ashamed of myself. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the granting of confidence to the candidate, we shall have a three-minute recess. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats because the vote will begin. We will proceed to the vote for the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by his majesty the king. Confidence shall be given if the candidate obtains the favourable vote of the simple majority of the House. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask your ladies and gentlemen to remain silent, to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice. Even if the secretaries call them, they will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot and which was that of Mrs Faba de la Encarnación. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. [[Rumors]] I ask the first Madam Secretary to initiate the appeal. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, silence, the vote will begin. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'yes': Faba de la Incarnation, Elena Fernández de Moya Romero, José Enrique Fernández García, Eduardo Floriano Corrales, Carlos Javier Gammazo Micó, Oscar Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel García Cañal, José Ramón García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Hernández, José Ramón García-Pelayo Jurado, María José García-Tizón López, Arturo Garrido Valenzuela, Irene Vidal Swivel, Juan Carlos Gomez Balsera, Marcial Gómez García, Rodrigo González Guinda, María del Carmen González Muñoz, Ángel Luis González Terol, Antonio González Vázquez, Marta Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel Heredia Martín, Silvia Hernández Bento, María del Carmen Hernando Fraile, Rafael Antonio Herrero Bono, José Alberto Hole Juliá, Bethlehem Igea Arisketa, Francisco Isac García, Angels Julià Julià, María Sandra Juncal Rodríguez, Juan Manuel Lassalle Ruiz, José María Llorens Torres, José Ignacio Lopez Ares, Susana Lorenzo Torres, Miguel Madrazo Díaz, Ana Maria Marcos Moyano, María Dolores Marí Bosó, José Vicente Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Maroto Aranzábal, Javier Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez González, José Luis Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel Martínez Saiz, Theophila Martínez Vázquez, Francisco Martínez-Maillo Toribio, Fernando Martín-Toledano Suárez, José Alberto Matarí Sáez, Juan José Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel Matos Mascareño, Pablo Maura Barandiaran, Fernando Merino López, Rafael Millán Salmerón, María Virginia Molinero Hoyos, Francisco Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montserrat Montserrat, Dolors Moragas Sánchez, Jorge Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria Moreno Bustos, Ramon Moreno Palanques, Rubén Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Nadal Belda, Álvaro María Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez, Fernando Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Nieto Ballesteros, José Antonio Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Palmer Tous, Teresa Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel Pérez Aras, Juan Vicente Pérez López, Santiago Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín Posada Moreno, Jesus Postigo Quintana, Jesús Quintanilla Barba, María del Carmen Ramírez Freire, Saul Reynés Calvache, Águeda Rivera Andrés, Irene Rivera de la Cruz, Marta María Rivera Díaz, Albert Roca Mas, Jordi Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa Rojas García, Carlos Red Noguera, Pilar Roldán Monés, Antonio Romero Hernández, Carmelo Romero Rodríguez, María Eugenia Salvador Armendáriz, Carlos Casimiro Salvador García, Luis Miguel Suárez Lamata, Eloy Tarno Blanco, Ricardo Ten Oliver, Vicente Tremiño Gomez, Ignacio Valmaña Ochaíta, Silvia Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén Vazquez Rojas, Juan María Vera Proro, Juan Carlos Villalobos Talero, Celia Villegas Pérez, José Manuel Viso Diéguez, Miguel Ángel Zoido Alvarez, Juan Ignacio Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria Acedo Penco, Pedro Aguiar Rodríguez, Ernesto Aguirre Rodríguez, Ramon Alba Mullor, María Dolores Albaladejo Martínez, Joaquín Alli Martínez, Íñigo Jesús Alonso Díaz-Guerra, José Jaime Alós López, Ana Isabel Alvarez Palleiro, Felix Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros, María Carmen Angle Romero, Maria Teresa Asian González, Matilde Pastora Ayllón Manso, José Luis Under Prieto, Maria Luz Barrachina Ros, Miguel Barreda de los Ríos, Leopoldo Barrios Tejero, José María Bastida Bono, Elena Maria Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Bernabé Pérez, Francisco Martín Blanco Garrido, M.a Mar Blasco Marqués, Manuel Bonilla Dominguez, Mary Jesus Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Bravo Baena, Juan Burgos Gallego, Thomas Cabrera Carmona, Eloísa Maria Camps Devesa, Gerardo Candon Adam, Alfonso Cano Fuster, José Cano Leal, Francisco Javier Singing García del Moral, Antonio Carreño Fernández, María Ascension Married White, Pablo Cascals Martínez, Loreto Barber Boy, José María Clavell López, Oscar Clemente Giménez, Diego Courtesy Bureta, Pilar Balmaseda Cotello, Mar From Above Sánchez, Welcome From Barrionuevo Gener, Avelino From Cospedal García, María Dolores De la Torre Díaz, Francisco De Lara Carbo, Maria Teresa From Luis Rodríguez, Theophilus By Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo De Santa Ana Fernández, María de la Concepción De Campo Estaún, Sergio From the Sanz River, Emilio Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Diaz Gómez, Guillermo Dueñas Martínez, María del Carmen Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta Spain Queen, Carolina Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'no': Farré Fidalgo, Sonia Fernández Bello, Miguel Anxo Elias Fernández Castañón, Sofia Fernández Gómez, Alexandra Franco Carmona, Isabel García Puig, María del Mar García Sempere, Eva Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio González García, Second Guijarro García, Txema Guinart Moreno, Lydia Hernanz Costa, Sofia Homs Molist, Francesc Honorato Chulián, María Auxiliadora Turrion Churches, Pablo Manuel Jordan and Roura, Teresa Lamuà Estañol, Marc Legarda Uriarte, Mikel López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio Luis Bail, Jorge Marcello Santos, Ana Martín González, Lucia Martínez Rodríguez, María Rosa Martínez Seijo, María Luz Matute García de Jalón, Oskar Maura Zorita, Eduardo Javier Mayoral Perales, Rafael Mena Arca, Joan Miquel and Valenti, Sergi Monereo Pérez, Manuel Montero Gil, Irene Maria Montero Soler, Alberto Moya Matas, Jaume Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olòriz Serra, Joan Pascual Peña, Sergio Pastor Muñoz, Rosana Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan Postius Terrado, Antoni Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro Robles Fernández, Margarita Rodríguez Martínez, Angela Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Rufián Romero, Gabriel Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Health Areste, María Isabel Salvador i Duch, Jordi Sánchez Melero, Tania Sánchez Serna, Javier Santos Itoiz, Eduardo Sibine Camps, Marta Six Churches, Ricardo Sorli Fresquet, Marta Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Surra Spadea, Ana Maria I'm late for Coma, Joan. Terron Berbel, Ana Belén Valido Pérez, Carmen Vendrell Gardeños, Josep Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia Vidal Sáez, Aina Old vineyard, Raimundo Vila Gómez, Miguel Xucla i Costa, Jordi Yllanes Suárez, Juan Pedro Zaragoza Alonso, José Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Alba Goveli, Nayua Miriam Alonso Cantorné, Felix Alonso Clusa, Rosa Ana Arevalo Caraballo, María Teresa Acute Casting, Pedro Azpiazu Uriarte, Pedro María Baldoví Roda, Joan Ballester Muñoz, Angela Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Battle and Ruiz, Enric Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Beitialarrangement Lizarralde, Marian Nice Accensi, Ferran Belarus Urteaga, Ione Bescansa Hernández, Carolina Bosaho Gori, Rita Gertrudis Botejara Sanz, Amparo Bustamante Martín, Miguel Ángel Bustinduy Amador, Pablo Campuzano i Canadés, Carles Candle Serna, Ignasi Carrera de Castro, Zaida Cañamero Valle, Diego Capdevila i Esteve, Joan Chapel and Farre, Esther Green Carracedo, José David Carreño Valero, Sara Ciuro i Buldo, Lourdes Cruz Rodríguez, Manuel De Frutos Madrazo, María del Rocío De la Concha García-Mauriño, María Asunción Jacoba Pía Del Olmo Ibáñez, Juan Manuel Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Domènech Sampere, Francesc Xavier Elorza González, Odón Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Errejón Galván, Íñigo Esteban Bravo, Aitor Ladies and gentlemen who abstained: Fernández Diaz, Jesús María Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Florez Rodríguez, María Aurora Franchise Vera, Sebastian Galeano Gracia, Oscar Galovart Carrera, María Dolores García Mira, Ricardo Antonio González Bayo, Josefa Immaculate González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel González Veracruz, María Gutiérrez Limones, Antonio Heredia Díaz, Miguel Ángel Hernando Vera, Antonio Hurtado Zurera, Antonio Jiménez Tortosa, Juan Lasarte Iribarren, José Javier Lastra Fernández, Adriana López Álvarez, Patxi López Milla, Julián Lucio Carrasco, María Pilar Luena López, Caesar Madina Muñoz, Eduardo Martín González, María Guadalupe Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Muñoz González, Pedro José Palacín Guarné, Gonzalo Peña Waiter, Esther Pérez Domínguez, María Soledad Pérez Herráiz, Margarita Pradas Torres, Antonio Rallo Lombarte, Artemi Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Rodriguez García, Isabel Rodríguez Hernández, Juana Amalia Rodríguez Ramos, María Soraya Romingera Salazar, María del Mar Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Sánchez Amor, José Ignacio Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Jiménez, María Jesús Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Simancas Simancas, Rafael Torres Mora, José Andrés Trevín Lombán, Antonio Ramón María Tundador Moreno, Victoria Begoña Urquizu Sancho, Ignacio Abalos Meco, José Luis Alconchel Gonzaga, Miriam Alvarez Alvarez, Angels Antón Cacho, Javier Barreda Fontes, José María Bellido Acevedo, Pablo Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Camacho Sánchez, José Miguel Villar Camera, Gregorio Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Ciscar Casabán, Ciprià Cortés Lastra, Ricardo Cello Pérez, Carmen Rocío De la Encina Ortega, Salvador Antonio Diaz Trillo, José Juan Government members in office who said 'yes': Rajoy Brey, Mariano Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, María Soraya García-Margallo y Marfil, José Manuel Catalá Polo, Rafael Montoro Romero, Cristóbal Ricardo Fernández Díaz, Jorge Mendez de Vigo Montojo, Íñigo Báñez García, María Fatima García Tejerina, Isabel Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Reyes Rivera, Patricia Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, Alicia Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Take Take, José Ignacio Pastor Julián, Ana Maria Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Exposito Prieto, Marcelo Elizo Serrano, María Gloria Members of the Bureau who abstained: Gordo Pérez, Juan Luis Navarro Garzón, Micaela
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u65	Has any honourable Member not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] We shall proceed to the scrutiny of the votes cast. [[Pause]] Made the count, he said
ParlaMint-ES_2016-10-29-CD161029.u66	The voting was as follows: 349 votes in favour, 170 against, 111 abstentions, 68. Ladies and gentlemen, having reached the favourable vote of the simple majority of the members of the House, trust is given to the candidate, Don Mariano Rajoy Brey, which I will inform to his majesty the king for the purpose of his appointment as President of the Government. Congratulations, Your Honor! [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]] The meeting rose. It was eight and twenty-five minutes of the night.
