ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies is meeting to comply with Article 99.3 of the Constitution and to submit to a second vote the proposal of candidate Don Mariano Rajoy Brey for the Presidency of the Government. [[Rumors]] I pray silently. The session will begin with a debate prior to the vote, which, since the Constitution imposes a period of 48 hours, will not take place in any case before 20:05 hours. In accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the candidate may intervene for a maximum of ten minutes and the parliamentary groups for five minutes each to determine their position. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, seventy-two hours ago I addressed this House to say that Spain needs a government urgently, that the best government would be able to effectively address the most pressing challenges before us. That is why I offered a broad-based Government of parliament. I also stated that there was no reasonable alternative to the candidature I have put before this House, which, I believe, was sufficiently accredited during the debate. Finally, I added that we are living in an exceptional situation, unprecedented in Spanish politics: that it is impossible for the Spanish to have a government without agreements that allow it and that it is therefore the responsibility of all the groups in this House to do what is in our hands so that that government can see the light and that the elections will not be repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, my candidacy was supported by the parliamentary groups of citizens and the People's Party. It also added the vote of the Canary Coalition MP and those of the members of the Navarro People's Union and the Asturias Forum who, like the Aragonese Party, attended the elections in coalition with the People's Party. I thank each and every one of them again for their support. It is also known that these supports were not enough to carry out the investiture, and this is why today we meet again: to see if it is possible to expand the result and return Spain to the path of democratic normality. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in which we now find ourselves is summed up by the fact that the Socialist Group, whose cooperation I have expressly requested, refuses to allow the constitution of the only government that seems viable and does so without offering any alternative. I must assume that it is because it does not have it and that it does not have it because it does not exist, except for the undesirable choice of a heterogeneous, extremist and contradictory front, as was demonstrated yesterday during the debate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not want to help Spain to have a government and we cannot offer an alternative that is politically, economically and constitutionally viable, why is it not frankly said what is intended? What is not possible is to say one thing at the same time and the other; for example, that the elections are not intended to be repeated, but neither will the Government be allowed to form. Instead of being frank, the only thing Mr Sánchez offered us last Wednesday was a collection of his manoeuvring and repeated usual pretexts to conceal the unrecognizable desire to repeat the elections. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, arguing disagreements with the tasks of the People's Party which have succeeded in straightening the course of Spain or denouncing the economic, social and labour results which the most citizens support is nothing more than a pretext which is far below the compromise which is intended to elude. It is very little excuse, very little, for such a serious act as blocking Spanish politics and condemning citizens to a third election. Criticizing a government programme in which no attempt has been made to circumvent the compromise and to avoid the danger that its proposals will be accepted does not even come under the pretext of being elusive. And, speaking of apologies, none like that of potential allies. And what is this about the potential allies Mr. Sanchez is talking about? Those who threaten to impose the independence of a part of the national territory, can today be considered as a potential ally of the People's Party? And how can it be said that the Socialist Party is not among the potential allies of the People's Party? You have recently arrived, Your Honor, but since I have until today the usual ally of my group for everything that affects the big decisions about the future of Spain has always been and will necessarily remain the Socialist Party, and vice versa. It is true, Mr Sánchez; the Socialist Party and the People's Party are not potential allies, we are indispensable allies for the great issues that matter to us Spaniards. Do not tell me now that the Socialist Party feels that it affects Spain closer to populist or independence groups than to the People's Party! I would regret that, and if so, it would be useful for all Spaniards to know. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, that does not affect what I say, even then I would still need the agreement of the People's Party for everything important. Ladies and gentlemen, in all civilized countries, in all, the Socialist Party is an ally of any party with which it shares the basic constitutional consensus; in any civilized country, in Spain too, at least until today. An example. It has not been that long since August 2011 when I was asked to cooperate by the then President of the Government and Secretary General of the Socialist Party, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, to amend the Constitution. How long do we have to agree? What it took me to find out. And, as I told you before, it wouldn't have been possible without our acquiescence. That's right, Your Honor, it doesn't disguise reality. This is the case when we talk about our Constitution, when we do this about the whole acquis communautaire, which in a way does not cease to be another Constitution, or is it that we have entered the euro with the majority on one side of the House on the other? No; we have done so by a national agreement between the Spanish political forces. And that is always the case when we are dealing with foreign policy, defence policy, the fight against terrorism, etc. That is the case and must be the case whenever an exceptional situation occurs, and today, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an exceptional situation. This is the fundamental difference with what we have lived in Spain since 1977, the date of the first democratic elections, until today. It is an exceptional situation, ladies and gentlemen, because we have held two elections and run the risk of having to go back to the polls, and all in one year. Mr Sánchez, I don't even ask you today for an agreement alone with the People's Party. I haven't asked him in the last eight months, and I'm not asking him now. I offer you to join in an understanding that already includes other groups that we add up to 170 parliamentarians. I offer you an agreement that is not rigid, but open to suggestions and modifications. I have already offered you - months ago - a coalition, which is the usual thing in Europe when there is a circumstance like the one we are living in, and you have not accepted it. I can understand that, but honestly, as seen, I think it would have been best for Spain. I then offered him great pacts of state; this week again. I reiterate this offer to you again; autonomous financing, pensions, education, gender-based violence, are matters that deserve a commitment to governability. If you do not want any of this, if you want to stand on the sidelines of everything, if you persist in your policy of no, no and no, then at least allow a government to form in Spain. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, let us leave the excuses, the pretexts, the evasive ones and let us go to the point of the question, to what matters, that it is the problems of Spain, problems that are not yours or mine, Your Honor, but of everyone. That is why we are here, to meet once again a responsibility that none of us can meet separately. Ladies and gentlemen, as I pointed out the other day, the urgency of forming a government is determined because the circumstances, in particular the deadlines, impose a very high price on us if we are not able to act responsibly. The urgency marks us with unalterable commitments that concern us all, not just the People's Party, and that demand coherent responses from all, not just the People's Party. We all have an obligation to prevent Spain, due to parliamentary disagreements and interferences that no one cares about, from paying for broken dishes. The Spaniards do not recognize any member of this House, any member of this House, the right to consider that it is not his or her business that affects them. Well, Your Honor, rejecting the agreement and forcing a new election is equivalent in the present circumstances to confess frivolously that one brings without care that Spain can have new budgets or should extend the current ones; that it does not matter that Spain retains its credit or pays for losing it; that it is not his business if the unemployed see how they move away and shrink their chances of finding employment; in fact, that he does not worry that the pensioners can or does not update their pension. As I do not believe that anyone dares to support such a thing, I trust that we can all reflect on the consequences of our decisions, because they are consequences that no one seems to want but that will happen inexorably, ladies and gentlemen, if this blockade persists. And they won't solve a new election - the third in a year - because they'll be late. Next December's polls will not be able to repair the lack of budgets, the non-compliance with Europe, the financing of the autonomous communities, or the damage to our growth and employment prospects. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-government has a cost, it will pass a high bill and we will have to pay it among all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The least we can offer the Spaniards is seriousness. We all have a duty to reflect before placing Spain in an irreversible situation. Spain needs a quick solution that comes up against the immediate challenges and knows how to take advantage of the good prospects that still offer us in the coming years. Our first will must be to put together efforts to achieve what is right for all; that is, to ensure what we already have, to improve it as far as possible, to maintain the highest rate of job creation that we are capable of, to take advantage of opportunities and not to defraud the confidence that is still being given to us in the world today. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, I ask once again for the confidence of the House. I ask for an agreement that gives Spain the government that the Spaniards need, that they have entrusted us and that they demand us. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u3	For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u4	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Request the confidence of the House. This is what Article 99 of the Spanish Constitution says when we talk about the investiture debate and, Mr. candidate, you do not have the confidence of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, nor do you seem, in your words, to have the majority confidence of this House. Even those who forty-eight hours ago voted in favour of your candidacy and who today are going to vote again in favour came to say in this rostrum that they do so for Spain, but not because they trust you, Mr. candidate. [[Protests]] That's right. The question to be asked... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u5	Mr. Sanchez, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent, except for the speaker. [[Protests]] I ask you to remain silent to give the speaker the floor again. Go ahead, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u6	The question to be asked, ladies and gentlemen, candidate, is: how is it possible that a candidate who is President of the Government in office and who for the first time in the history of democracy is going to suffer a parliamentary defeat, how is it possible that the candidate who ran for an election more than four years ago in 2011 and who reaped one of the most important absolute majorities in the history of our democracy is today the worst-rated president in the history of democracy? How is that possible? [[Applauds]] If you have done so well, how is it possible that here you do not have a sufficient majority between Members and Members and you are the worst-rated president in the history of democracy? [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it is... [[Mr. Luena López: What is this?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u8	I'm convinced...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u9	One second, Mr. Sanchez. I have not personally called anyone yet, but I will if they insist on those isolated voices again but which are well known in this Bureau. Go ahead, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the answer to that question has a lot to do with what has happened over the past four and a half years. You, Mr Rajoy, have defrauded the confidence of the Spanish. He said one thing before the election campaign and did the opposite. I remind you, for example, of your fiscal policy and your promise to lower taxes. I am convinced that it also has much to do with having practiced a policy in which the economic crisis was used to dismantle much of the welfare state, which over the past thirty-five years, with effort, built and built Spanish and Spanish. I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it has much to do with the conundrum of the territorial conflict that is being experienced and that, unfortunately, during the past debate on investiture we have witnessed all of us in this House. I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it has much to do with cases of corruption which have denigrated political life in our country and which affect your party and your person, Mr Rajoy, and the lack of political responsibility. I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it has to do with the instrumentalization of public life, of public institutions for partisan purposes. Today, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have again seen a new example in a Council of Ministers, where this House has been threatened by saying that if there are no new General State Budgets, officials and pensioners will not see their salaries and pensions updated. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know that you can bring to this House a decree-law to update the pensions and salaries of officials and, Mr Rajoy, if you bring that decree to the House the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of its validation. [[Applauds]] I also say one thing to you, Mr Rajoy, if you do not, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will present a parliamentary initiative to update the salaries of officials and also the pensions of our elders. [[Applauds]] Four years of absolute majority, ladies and gentlemen, four political fractures: territorial, social, economic and political, which you have unfortunately not been able to resolve. And four more years with you at the head of the government, all they can do is make them worse. Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you should draw a conclusion from the parliamentary defeat that your candidate is going to suffer today and which he suffered forty-eight hours ago. [[Rumors]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not going to do it; we know you and we know you are not going to do it. We know that the whole strategy of this investiture debate, from your first speech, Mr Rajoy, to today, is because you are thinking of the third elections. That's right; that's right. [[Applauds]] But that's your responsibility, Mr. Candidate. The responsibility of each and every one of the Members of Parliament that we put forward a candidacy on 26 June to change things in our country, the responsibility of each and every Member that we make up all the parliamentary groups that we represent to the political forces of change on 26 June is to offer a solution to this country, to the political impasse in which candidate Mariano Rajoy introduced it. And you have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that if we all act with a high eye and generosity I am convinced that we will find that solution and, without a doubt, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will be part of that solution. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u11	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mariano Rajoy, today we are giving you solemnity to an act that I believe you do not deserve as solemnity because today we are going to attend what we all already know, today we are going to attend your failure: you are not going to be elected President of the Government. And yet you have spoken from this rostrum as if it were the State, as if you and your parliamentary group were the State and the only ones who can rule in this country. First of all, they are not going to rule because today you are going to be rejected, your candidacy is going to be rejected, and secondly, there are more alternatives. You come up to this rostrum and present an agreement with 32 Members who have acknowledged being born, having come to politics basically to prevent us from ruling, and at the same time you extend your hand to the traditional political forces, with which in the past you have agreed to govern or reform the Constitution. If it is clear that what concerns you is not that you can govern the Socialist Party, what concerns you is that you can govern the Socialist Party with us. [[A Member: Of course!-Applause]] Paraphrasing Mr. Hernando, do not provoke me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Laughter]] Look, I don't think you have understood what has happened in this country in the last two and a half years. You have basically said that here you can rule only you or that the alternative to that is chaos - as Chumy Chúmez's comic in Brother Lobo said - or a group of contradictory extremists. Have you not understood that the political space that I represent here today already governs the main Spanish capitals? [[Applauds]] You have not understood that we already hold governments, not necessarily of the same sign, in different autonomous communities. I ask you, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, not to speak like the State because you are not the State and to speak to us with respect. Sooner or later we will rule in this country and you will be in opposition, and that will not be chaos, that will be democratic normality, Mr Rajoy. I ask you to recognize democratic normality because this country has changed, this country is no longer two parties that share everything, this country is no longer two parties that agree to change the Constitution. And you have shown in these four years that you are not only the party of corruption, but that you rule badly; you are the party of inefficiency and the party of social injustice, and precisely as a result of your policies and your acting as a government we are here. You understand, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, what has happened in the last three years in this country. [[Applauds]] I have to ask the Socialist Party, today that the news is that Mr Mariano Rajoy is not going to be elected president, to be clear. It is all very well, and I am glad that you have defeated the sections of your party that openly and uncomfortably defended that your Members had to abstain in favour of a People's Party government, but I have heard some of your spokesmen say that you do not want an agreement with us. Then explain to the citizens that you want the elections to be repeated. If you want to be repeated, I don't think you've understood anything. I would give the impression that you want the elections to be repeated until you like the result. You have been having a nightmare for two and a half years and want to wake up in 2013, as if nothing had happened. [[Rumors]] And that's not gonna happen; that's not gonna happen. It's the year 2016. It will not happen that you wake up in a system of parties in which there are basically two parties that can alternate, such as Cánovas and Sagasta, and yet agree to change the Constitution. Fortunately, Spanish citizens have decided that this does not have to happen anymore. And Mr. Mariano Rajoy has told you clearly: you have to choose strategically whether your future is about reaching agreements with the People's Party or your future is about reaching agreements with us. I believe that on 26 June you were given a second chance. They had the worst election result in their history and were still very satisfied because they expected another election result. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u14	Enjoy it because perhaps this is the last time you can lead the possibility that this country will have a decent government. Take strategic advantage of the possibility that in Spain you can govern with others. [[Applauds]] Don't make aggressive gestures or openly tell the Spaniards that they want to try for the third time because they don't like the election result they had. Perhaps it would make more sense for us to talk about the European Union, about what social Europe we want; perhaps it would make more sense for us to understand that Spain is a plurinational political reality and that only since fraternity, understanding and democratic solutions can we make a country proposal in the face of the centralizing attempts that only lead to the fracture of our people. You understand that with us you can perhaps discuss, do something different, and, if you don't, have the courage to go out today at a press conference and tell the Spaniards: we want a third chance because we want to return to bipartisanism forever. Tell the Spaniards that they do not want an agreement with us and that what they claim is that in Spain there is again what happened in 2013. But let me warn you: maybe you don't have a second chance to lead, to lead a new country project. [[Applauds]] We will continue where we are, reaching out, but being very clear that we want a new country project; a country with its people; a country in which economic figures, for once, will have the citizens and peoples of this country back within the figures. We are ashamed that in this country ex-presidents and ex-ministers have ended up on boards of directors; we are ashamed that in this country it has been rescued with public money to financial institutions while families were removed from their homes. We have a project that is antagonistic to that of the People's Party. Let us decide, because there are no more political spaces in Spain. Either you come to an agreement with us or you continue to reproduce the shame, the humiliation that has caused hundreds of thousands of young people to occupy the streets and that we are here today, in this Parliament. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u15	Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u16	Thank you, President. After the storm comes the calm. [[Laughter and applause]] There was a blockade after December 20 and a blockade after June 26; Pedro Sánchez's investiture failed and Mariano Rajoy's investiture will fail today. And after listening to Mr. Rajoy dedicate not very nice words to Mr. Sánchez; after Mr. Sánchez's words to Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Iglesias to Mr. Sánchez, I do not know, sincerely, whether what we have seen these last few minutes in this rostrum is the best way to reach agreements, sincerely. [[Applauds]] Because this is not about who best defends their party or their chair; this is about who can best defend the interests of the Spaniards, who today is going to have a government, to have reforms and to start this country. And we are the ones of the yes. Here we have those who said no to Pedro Sánchez after December 20, to those of not now to the government of the PP, who are Pedro Sánchez and Mr. Iglesias, and we are those of yes, those of yes to the reforms that this country needs. Because the reforms of this country are not put in place by shouting, they are put in place by negotiating, Mr. Iglesias. Because you shout a lot and talk about people, but the people who went out on the street asked for pay, asked for a change in the electoral law, asked to end the outbursts, asked to end the pardons, which is what we have negotiated. [[Applauds]] Because our unemployed, our retirees, our young people, our students, our self-employed, our entrepreneurs, our workers don't care if Mr. Iglesias carries the CNI or Mrs. Sáenz of Santamaría; they don't care the least. They care if this House gives them solutions or gives them problems and headaches. And I think it's time to move on to solutions and not headaches. I believe that the failure of Mr Sánchez's candidacy in the previous investiture and Mr Rajoy's failure today sincerely deserves the People's Party and the Socialist Party to reflect on why his investiture fails, why his candidates fail, why they are unable to generate consensus in this House, why they are unable to agree on the country's essential issues. So after this investiture, when this second failure - in this case of Mr Rajoy - ends, I sincerely ask the Socialist Party and the People's Party to reflect, that bipartisanism is over, but also the blockade, which Spain cannot wait for. And it seems to me that it is not appropriate to tell the Spaniards that they have made a mistake in voting. A third election would be a very undemocratic thing, let me say it. It is to tell the Spaniards that their vote is worthless; it is to tell the Spaniards that until we have a result that we like, the Members will not agree; it is to tell the Spaniards that if Mr Rajoy and Mr Sánchez or Mr Sánchez and Mr Rajoy are not presidents here this country does not move. And this country is more important than any of the Members of this House, including the candidates who have failed in these investitures. [[Applauds]] We are committed - and we will - to voting in favour of the release of this country and yes, Mr Sánchez, for Spain, of course we will not do it for the sake of art. We will do so for this country because, even if you are interested in repeating elections or presenting yourself to an alternative or Mr Rajoy has to be either him or him or only him president of the country, the Spaniards care about many more things. I sincerely believe that the Spanish cannot be blackmailed, that the Spanish do not deserve blackmail from this House, that it is they who pay us the salary and not us to them, that it is they - the Spaniards who are seeing us - who expect solutions and not us the problem. That's why I'm asking you to think about getting out of this loop, out of this nonsense. Anyone who thinks of a third election, sincerely, does not deserve to be president of this country ever. [[Applauds]] I'd like to clarify what's coming in the next few days. Today we are going to vote and there will be a vote that will not have a sufficient majority. Today we will end an investment pact that we signed People's Party, Citizens and which was later joined by the Canary Coalition. I tell you one thing very clearly: we will be looking forward to whether any candidate of the People's Party has a viable investiture, but not investments that are not viable, Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] And also if they sign and subscribe to the 150 reforms that we have agreed. If these 150 reforms are signed and a viable investment comes, we are willing to unlock this country, but we are not going to participate in Mr Sánchez's failures or Mr Rajoy's failures simply to try to block the country. [[Rumors]] So if there are solutions, if there is a viable investment, if they commit to the reforms that Citizens demand, we will be willing to unlock the country. If we're going to continue in this loop thinking about chairs and not people, the Spanish, we're not going to participate in that theater. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u17	Finally... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u19	Finally, since none of the previous Members have done so, since neither the candidate for the investiture nor the previous candidate for the investiture has done so, I would like to apologize to the Spanish on behalf of my party. [[Applauds]] I want to apologize because you chose us to seek solutions. It is true that my party is the yes, it is true that my party has participated in the two attempts to unlock, it is true that Citizens have always been in the solution, never in the problem. Precisely for this reason, with absolute calm and humility, I apologize for not having been able to convince these parties, old parties, to agree. It is not only our responsibility, of course, I think the Spanish know how to judge and are smart enough to know who blocks and who unlocks. In any case, I do not fall for the rings for telling my compatriots that we will continue to try, that we will try to do it right and for asking for forgiveness because, even if I am not the candidate for the investiture, I feel part of the failure of this House. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u20	Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, Mr Rivera, Mr candidate, Mr Ibex, first of all I wanted to show you something. [[Laughter]] [[Show map of Spain]] This is not a challenge, this is different countries that vote differently. [[Applauds]] We are this, in which among all of you there is only one mayor. It's called winning and it's called losing, and you lost. It's called democracy. Be democrats and please respect him. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u22	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u23	Having said that, if I may, I will use my five minutes to ask a number of questions which I believe are relevant and which I hope will be answered. In fact, I also hope that after these five minutes the cave will not compare me with all the dictators of contemporary European history; with everyone, except Franco, of that they always forget. Mr. Rajoy, why can Carme Forcadell end up in a court after fulfilling a democratic mandate and Fernández Díaz, Mr. Fernández Díaz, perhaps at the Vatican embassy after conspired from his office? Why can Santi Vidal not go back to being a judge because he is an independentist and Mr. De Alfonso can go back to being independent after saying that of 'we have borne his health'? Why are you so mad at a Visca Catalunya liure! And so little with a 'this the prosecutor's office tunes it up to you'? Why? Mr Rajoy, why in a state with 2.7 million poor children, with 32% child poverty, why in the second most unequal state in Europe you and the orange national front, Citizens, consider that the problem of childhood, of the education system in Spain, is that children study Catalan in Catalonia? [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u24	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u25	Why do Catalan children study English - which I don't think is wrong - have to do mathematics in Spanish? Do you realize that you are monolingual telling bilinguals who have to be trilingual? [[Laughter]] Catalan children speak two languages, Catalan and Spanish, with which they speak one language more than you. Why do they have to stop doing that? How can you say that the Spanish-speaking person is excluded, persecuted and threatened on a land, in a country where the leader of the opposition is a sherezana who arrived in Catalonia eight years ago? How can those Andalusians, Galicians, Batians, and extremists who left their skin in places like the one I come from, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, be disrespected so that their children and grandchildren could learn the language of the country that welcomed them? [[Rumors]] Be ashamed and stop doing that. [[Rumors]] Mr Rajoy, why do you remember so much, with breaststrokes, while self-proclaiming constitutionalists, of article 155, when for forty years you have forgotten such beautiful articles as 47 and 128? Why is your Constitution a threat to a people and not a roof? Why are we the ones who broke the constitutional order and attacked national sovereignty if it was you who broke it and delivered a summer night of 2011? Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Rivera, why bother you so much with a stellate on a balcony and so little that the butcher of Badajoz, General Yagüe, has neighborhoods in his honor? Why do hundreds of thousands go out to the streets every Diada in Catalonia is a provocation and that Spain is the second country with the most missing in Europe and the planet reconciliation? Why is a constituent process that brings together 72 Members of the 135, who go from the liberal-conservative centre right to the most rupturist left, is a drift and that you are only able to agree with your white mark, with that kind of Mr Smithers of Spanish politics, is a sense of state? Why do you teach so many lessons of Catalan reality if you are the last and last penultimate political force in Catalonia? Why is independence, Mr Rajoy, Puyol, 3%, sieges and Andorra, and you, unionism, are not Rat, You are, Gürtel, and Panama? Why give us anti-corruption fighting lessons if, while in the Parliament of Catalonia it was called gangster a gangster, you here play Candy Crush? [[Applauds]] [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] Why are we the deceived and indoctrinated, when you have again won the elections with one more Member for each case of corruption in the last four years? Mr Rajoy, Mr Rivera, why is it that a process that only claims ballots and holds absolute parliamentary majority is undemocratic and that you, in order to preside over your state, must propose a gentleman from a palace to which no one has voted is democratic normality? Well, his father did have a vote, that of a Francisco Franco Bahamonde, who might ring a bell. [[Rumors]] Mr Rajoy, Mr Rivera, if the Spanish State, after eight years of reactionary and neoliberal policies, owes more than one hundred percent of its GDP, why is it an urn in an electoral college in Catalonia that threatens Spanish sovereignty?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u26	Mr. Rufián, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u27	I'm done, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, why are there populations of twenty-eight inhabitants with a brand-new AVE station and hundreds of thousands of others that are embedded every morning in a Rodalies? Mr. Rajoy, why 80 years later Lorca is still in Granada and Billy el Niño running half a marathon in Madrid? [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. This is for Mr. Sanchez. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u29	I'll be right there. Mr. Sánchez, how much more are you going to renounce the governability of your country for not giving a voice to ours? How much more are you going to prefer Rajoy than an urn in Catalonia? Be brave. And I finish with a question for fellow Churches and Domènech. Comrades, do you imagine a country with a residual PP? Do you imagine a country with the social, political and parliamentary majorities sufficient to initiate and complete a constituent process for a republic? The country you imagine already exists and is called Catalonia. Help us, because we here will always help you. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u30	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u31	Madam President of the House, candidate, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we have too many legislatures in which the institutional structure of the State and the territorial distribution of political power are being transformed. The statutory covenant and the agreements reached in the transition are laminated through organic laws and court decisions that understand that there are no limits or matters that may be excluded from State regulation. Constitutional law manuals need a severe correction, because the theory contained in many of them every day has less to do with reality. In your speech, Mr. candidate, you spoke of respecting legality. It should be recalled that this legality continues to be in breach of numerous contents of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, agreed and endorsed in 1979; in fact, thirty-seven years later, there are still substantial competences that have not been transferred. Mr Rajoy, your quinquennium at the head of the Central Administration has been very negative in our opinion. What I say is not empty rhetoric. On Wednesday in my speech I listed a good list of actions by the Central Administration that demonstrated the total absence of dialogue and the imposition by his Government in areas such as our self-government, economic development and coexistence. It is an attitude that clearly tries to ornate our own extraneous fact. We are a party of institutions and acting responsibly, but we are not going to support with our votes something that goes head-on against our ideal. You yourself, the People's Party, the Socialist Party, Citizens and Podemos, presume to be the parties that structure Spain despite the Basque and Catalan parties. The four are defined as Spanish patriots. Then exercise your patriotism, assume your responsibilities and demonstrate it. Today, in the Spanish media, we have attended intoxications by several spokesmen from the People's Party and the PSOE about what the PNV is going to do in the future in the face of a possible new investiture by Mr Rajoy. I thought that in my speech before yesterday I had made it very clear; Basque citizenship understood it very well. The Basque Nationalist Party does not link what can happen in the Basque elections with the candidacy for the Presidency of the Government. He doesn't do it now, and he won't do it later. Our position is firm. We cannot vote in favour of a candidate who for five years has made deaf ears to dialogue with the Basque Government and to seek agreements, let alone with an agreement of 150 points that nullifies our competences in both social and economic matters, in the search - explicitly expressed by Citizens on countless occasions - of strengthening the State to the detriment of autonomous competences, and which contains a pact for the unity of Spain and the defence of the Constitution - literally - whose concrete content is unacceptable on our part, as both the People's Party and the Citizens know. All this in addition to containing proposals in the economic and labour field that we believe are a continuing commitment to the devaluation of wages and the increase of business exemptions; a policy that will not take the country out of the crisis and can put the so-called welfare state at risk. We cannot support a candidate who, in addition to presenting himself with such a bag, makes a speech based on a conception of a nation and an absolutely exclusive country, which is based on the denial of which we have others rather than trying to seek consensus. Nor are we prepared for political speculation from the ranks of the Socialist Party in the media about our supposed vote in favour of avoiding the socialist responsibilities themselves. I said it the other day and I repeat it today. The PNV is always and will be open to dialogue and agreement - that's what it's about in politics - but we're not going to swallow frogs. Anyone who wants to talk and, if necessary, agree with the PNV from the government - whatever color it is - must know that it will be necessary to adopt a very different attitude than the Spanish governments were accustomed to. We will talk to anyone who wants to dialogue and not impose on the basis of judicial remedies or majorities in the Courts. We will talk to anyone who wants to maintain a fluid bilateral relationship but of mutual respect in which the will of a Basque society that wants to be recognized as the nation that is to be taken into account. In short, national recognition, bilaterality, pact and guarantees. That should be the next future. This attitude is demonstrated by the facts over time, not by hollow promises. Our vote will therefore be negative to your candidacy, Mr Rajoy; today and after 25 September. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u32	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs Molist has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make three very brief remarks. Mr Rajoy, what you have done in these forty-eight hours is the living metaphor of your political action: first, do not propose anything constructively; secondly, ask others to support you for free; and, thirdly, in the face of doubt and the lack of consistent arguments, castaña to Catalonia. This is the living metaphor of your political action, which in fact is how you have acted in these last forty-eight hours, in which you had a time frame to try something more than just do what you have done. Second consideration, we will not vote for you. This won't surprise you at all. We don't trust you. It's not a personal matter, but we don't have any kind of political confidence in you or what you represent. It is true that today - and you have recognized it - you have lost and you are primarily responsible. The question is simple: in the face of this, will you ever assume some kind of responsibility other than making fun of others? It is a simple question that one day you should answer, simply out of curiosity. By the way, Mr Rivera, apologize after you said yourself that you had lost credibility and, frankly, I don't know how this sounds to ask for forgiveness. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Sánchez, I would like to reiterate what I said to you in the debate on Wednesday. If you take the initiative, you know, we are willing to talk, and you also know what, about democracy and Catalonia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yesterday morning the government delegate in Valencia, his delegate, Mr Moragues, insisted that Compromís abstained in exchange for you improving our funding. She's his deputy, not mine, and she's his president, not mine. What comes to confirm your delegate is that the Valencians are already underfunded, that you with an absolute majority have done nothing in four years and that it was not a priority for you. It also confirms a way of understanding the absolutely disgusting policy: votes in exchange for rights, because the financing of Valencians is a right. [[Applauds]] If I were a member of the Valencian People's Party, I'd think I'd support you, at least I'd think so. September is harvest month and in addition to second chances. You present yourself at this second chance and as a bad student you're going to pick up 180 pumpkins, I guess. Besides, the yeses they're going to give you aren't too enthusiastic either, they're a few yeses, in short, unenthusiastic I know you don't care, because what you really want is to go to elections. [[Rumors]] Maybe I should think about it, because maybe it's you; I don't know, I don't have to tell you. Since Compromís we are obviously going to vote no, we are going to say no, because I believe that it has earned us no deservedly, because it has failed to meet commitments to Valencians in financing, infrastructure and general state budgets. I'm done because I have very little time left. Today, except for surprises, the time of candidate Rajoy, of that extremist and re-centralizing front ends, and another begins that will lead to elections or build an alternative with a new candidate. It is the time of truth, and we sincerely trust, Mr Sánchez, that today's PSOE no will not become a abstention after 25 September, after the Galician and Basque elections. From today - I am finishing, Madam President - all those who vote 'no' will have to decide whether we are willing to look for people or simply look for the interests of our own party. Either we do it, or we'll give the cut-off and corruption party another chance. We voted on two different proposals - Mr Rivera said it a moment ago - and they have failed. Why don't we try this one? Why don't we try it? Let's try it, give it a chance. From Monday, Mr Iglesias, Mr Sánchez, let us sit down and give this proposal a chance. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u36	I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u37	Pick it up on. At the end of the session in which Mr Rajoy will receive, together with ours, more votes against than in favour, a period of two months is opened in which it does not seem that an alternative of government in terms of democratisation of the state, which is what the majority of Basque citizens demand, together with the eviction of the reactionary policies of the People's Party, will not be achieved. But if there is a milestone in this period, it is the elections of 25 September, which can mean the beginning of a new period that allows us to take positive steps with the support, after the autonomic elections, of an overwhelming majority of citizens. Therefore, convinced that we must look for change wherever possible, that is, in Euskal Herria, I use this rostrum to make an appeal to the formations called to participate in that political majority and I reiterate to them the offer of our candidate for lehendakari, Arnaldo Otegi, for us to work in a country code to achieve a triple agreement on social rights, right to decide and pacification. We have a majority so that Euskal Herria is a territory free of cuts questioning the competition policies and tops imposed on us by the State, making us with all the instruments of decision, the only way to shield social rights and be protagonists of our future. And we need to lay solid foundations for coexistence and seek solutions, among others, to the issue of prisoners, ending the vengeful and trapping policy of the State, as in the case of the accumulation of penalties and the transposition of the corresponding framework directive that the State - we already knew it - took six years and moreover - we have just known it by a parliamentary question in Europe - delayed its notification to Europe year and a half to buy time and continue to consolidate in the Spanish courts a situation contrary to the European norm and to human rights. It is therefore - and I conclude - urgent to end this situation. And, to contribute to that, although I do it with my voice something broken, with absolute conviction and roundness I say to you, Mr Rajoy: today our vote is no.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u38	Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u39	Madam President of the Congress of Deputies, Mr. candidate, members of the Executive, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, good afternoon. Last week a number of people were telling me that at the end of this investiture debate was going to be an adjustment of accounts, and I refused to believe it. I was told that in the end what the Socialist Party intended was to get the petty satisfaction of returning grievances received earlier, and I refused to understand it. But after listening to some interventions, I think that when I come out the door of this Chamber today I will have to give reason to those who warned me. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know perfectly well what the problems of Spain and our country are; we all know what the problems of the middle classes are, and we also know that the middle classes are necessary for the economic and social development of our country. We all know the problems faced by families, especially the most vulnerable, families with children and dependent and disabled persons. We all know the problems of companies, large or small, in creating jobs. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, the immense magnitude of our public debt and we all know the shortage of funds to pay pensions in the medium term. If we all know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of this posture? What is the point of this policy? Why does this make it look like I don't know what? Ladies and gentlemen, we are called ladies and gentlemen, and we have been given resources and working conditions with which the majority of Spaniards out there have never dreamed, and we are still within our ideological trenches without wanting to leave them. That is why I want to highlight Mr Rajoy's political courage and I also want to thank the 170 Members and the parties we represent for trying to unlock this country, our country, today. Today we will vote yes, logically, to Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, on behalf of the Forum again before this House, we give you the support for your investiture for the reasons that I explained the day before yesterday from this rostrum. These are very difficult times for Spain and the efforts to find points of agreement and unlock the situation are particularly valuable. Mr Sánchez, you do not seem to care anything about what is said in this debate, although I invite you to release the editorial published yesterday by El País entitled: 'And now what?' , in which it is concluded that, in the absence of an alternative, there would be only the grotesque recourse to a third election, while the unrest of the citizenry accumulates with parties that solve nothing. [[Laughter]] The subtitle is: 'O Sánchez comes out of his incoherence or will be responsible for repeating elections'. Clearer, the water. Mr Sánchez, the height of vision you ask of us all includes yourself and your resignation as responsible for the blockade of Spain. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] You are trying to deceive the Spanish people to understand their triple no, the no to candidate Rajoy, the no to the pact with the independenceists and the no to the third elections. Triple is not an unacceptable argument, it is a gross diabolical test of impossible response that cynically forces a third election, something very expensive socially and economically for all Spaniards and also for yourself, that will not be rid of its political consequences. Its noes curtail the immediate implementation of urgent and essential measures for Spain and also those committed for Asturias in the agreement reached between Forum and PP, which are seen as a sequel to the chain of metaphorical successive sabotages always with the no as a weapon. He did not want to form a coalition government, he did not want to participate in any kind of legislative pact and he did not want to abstain to allow the formation of a government. I conclude by stressing that the more the sappers of our democracy persist in politically sabotaging our future, the more we will redouble from Forum the efforts to add from Asturias and Asturias in favor of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u42	I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again, making democracy a difficult game to understand for citizens who know what they are voting for and have voted for the second time to agree. I tell you now, as I told you then, that the canarian nationalists do not resign. They will hear today the same reasons, the same arguments and the same reasons that they heard from us six months ago, when in this very House, in this same situation, we said yes to consensus, to progress, to the will of understanding and to the desire expressed by the citizenry. Today we say yes again on account of responsibility. We say yes to those who have faced the mandate to try to form Government and have understood that this requires a change of policy and attitude. We say yes to those who have parked their differences to seek common ground. We say yes because it is no longer time for blows of effect, cross-accusations and empty messages, but for action and generosity. We say yes because it is time to think about the citizens rather than the acronyms. We say yes to those who have finally understood that this country, that its people and that the Canary Islands can no longer wait. Let us say today, as we did six months ago and forty-eight hours ago, yes to understanding, yes to dialogue and yes to agreement. We are where we have always been, we have not moved, because what moves us remains the same: the stability of the institutions, the achievement of the social achievements that this country demands and, above all, the defence of state policies with the Canary Islands. Today as we then say again in the hope that in the time that begins to count from now on we will be able to live up to what the citizens demand of us and what we must demand of ourselves. I end with that popular copla singing a canary poet, who they liked so much and who goes for the third time: 'I went to the sea for oranges, which the sea doesn't have. I put my hand in the water: hope keeps me.' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Canadiens, today New Canarias has not been very referred to in his speech. You've been 99% of your time asking who doesn't show up for the investiture. It's really something absolutely suspicious, I'm telling you. [[Applauds]] Look, New Canarias went to this process, which began three days ago, to tell you two things. We do not share your policies, we do not share them, as we have demonstrated over five years; and, moreover, we do not trust you, and we do not trust you because you have failed each and every one of the commitments you made with Canarias at the time. After listening to him on Wednesday, all the alarms have been turned on. We have heard him say that in the Canary Islands everything is great. It would surprise you to know how many people in our land have offended you with these statements, I can assure you. New Canarias has come here to reiterate its commitment to political change and we believe - and we say this to you with all due respect, but with the utmost firmness - that political change is incompatible with your holding the Presidency of the Government of Spain. It is that you - and this has already been argued on many occasions - probably, in a country of another nature, would not be where you are. Under certain circumstances - I am not accusing you of anything - I tell you that when you are president of a party that happens to what happens to yours elsewhere in the world it is usually difficult to stay in the position you are in. It is now beginning a two-month stage; a stage that we believe is an opportunity to continue working for political change, and that, I can assure you, is the bet - modestly, as it corresponds to the strength we have - and the commitment of New Canarias, which we come to reiterate here before all of you. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u46	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u47	Don't change yourselves, I haven't started. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Mr President, forty-eight hours ago we came to this House to vote on an nomination, and these forty-eight hours, theoretically - and so our laws say - are the period when this procedure of reflection is established. Unfortunately, I see, after listening to all of you, that some still do not reflect. I have heard the same arguments again from Mr Sánchez and I am really sorry that they are the same. Unfortunately, Mr Sánchez, really, excuses for not taking on any obligation, because you continue to block the action of the government, you are unable to present an alternative government and you also mock all the Spaniards when you tell them that it is useless that they have gone twice to the polls, that you do not move and that if someone in Spain has to move, that it is again the Spaniards. This, ladies and gentlemen, this, Mr Sánchez, is no way out. This, Mr Sánchez, is a plug, and I really regret that you take your group to be a plug for Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the results are what they are, they were what they were; they were in December and they were also in June, and the People's Party was the only one that added more support during all that time, fourteen more seats, eight hundred thousand more votes. Look, it's almost 8 million Spaniards who voted for the People's Party. That is why there are 137 Members on this side. That's why others made their results worse. And this is what there is, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, today no one can come to tell this House what he said two days ago or what he has been saying for a while. There are people who have said that we have done nothing or that Mr Rajoy has done nothing to ensure that there is a government in Spain. It's a lie. We offered you a government in coalition and then, when you said no, and being that the first time it was offered in this country, we offered you a great deal of agreement with five covenants, and you said no. We have reached an agreement with Citizens with a hundred and fifty commitments, one hundred of which were incorporated into an agreement that you also signed with Mr Rivera a few months ago. The President offered him eight major agreements in this House, and today he has reiterated it again. We have given you the opportunity to be useful to your constituents, to put forward what are the red lines, to negotiate on those red lines and to reach agreements to unlock this country. This is what we have proposed to you and, Mr Sánchez, you come back with the same thing today: dialogue with the PP is indispensible. Look, that's not democracy, that's intolerance, Mr. Sanchez, I'm sorry to tell you. [[Applauds]] Tomorrow the President of the Government in office will continue to be President of the Government in office; you will achieve nothing more. That is why, when you justify your position in the fact that you want to prevent a People's Party or Mr Rajoy's government from happening, you are simply deceiving. Today you will not fail Mr Rajoy or the 170 Members who have presented a great deal of agreement here, Mr Rivera and Mrs Oramas or other political groups; today you will fail, because you cannot propose an alternative. [[Laughter and applause]] Yes, yes, you cannot pose an alternative, and this is the serious problem that this country has: that you refuse to recognize reality, and that is that you do not have in your hands the possibility of presenting an alternative. Mr Rivera, we won the elections - we won them - and we won them with more votes than in December. You have come up to the rostrum to say that we are blocking a government at that time. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] No, no, that's what he said. [[Rumors]] We believe that in democracy the winner of the elections must be respected, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] I do not know if you are of the same opinion, but, Mr Rivera, listen to me: in democracy there are no winners; in democracy, do you know who is leaving? Those who lose, Mr Rivera, those who lose; those who lose in the ballot boxes. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] [[Applauds]] You came here the other day to tell us that we had to seek a consensus candidate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u48	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u49	What are you asking, that there be someone in this House who comes out and says he wants to be president of the government without going through the polls? Is that what you offer? Mr. Rivera, I don't think the Spaniards deserve that. [[Rumors]] Our candidate is Mariano Rajoy, he is the one who voted the Spaniards, he is the one who won the elections, he is today our candidate, it will be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and it will continue to be for a long time. [[Applauds]] And, Mr. Rivera, I don't sign agreements for fifteen minutes. I'm signing to go on, okay? To follow Good, so that's it. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes affirmative gestures]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u50	Wait a minute, Mr. Hernando. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u51	Mr. Sanchez... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u52	Wait a minute, Mr. Hernando, please. I beg you all to remain silent. You may continue to take the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I do not ask you to listen to me here today - I already know that the other day you did not even have the desire to be here - but I would ask you to listen to other people in your party: to listen to Felipe González, to listen to Mr Zapatero, to listen to Mr Rubalcaba, to some former ministers, to some of your party colleagues who are telling you to unlock the situation. They are not dangerous rightists, really, they are people of your party, who have supported you, who have done things for Spain. I think you have to listen to these people in a game like yours. Not only do they tell them, they are told by European leaders, today they have told them until the New York Times. It is that you are famous all over the world and have become famous in New York because you continue to block the situation in Spain; this is so. Never in the history of Spain was it blocked in this process of investiture to a government with 170 seats, not even when you did not have 170; it was allowed to rule, Mr Sánchez. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Not true]] This is what you're blocking today. Today you are making history, you wanted to rule with 90 deputies, you came to an investiture with 131, and now - after two elections - you are blocking the government and Parliament. What have you told us, Mr Sánchez, that you are going to present here a proposal for a law to increase the pensions or salaries of officials? And income what, with what income will you present it? [[Rumors]] You know that Parliament cannot be used as it was in the previous legislature, as a House to make a paripé. This did not work, here were approved many things that everyone knew were useless. You cannot subject Parliament to the same situation as you were in the previous parliamentary term. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u54	Mr. Hernando, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u55	I'm gonna finish it. Mr Iglesias, as far as you are concerned, I only hope that the Spaniards will never have the mistake of allowing you to govern this country; I hope that, simply because your model is a model that is already in practice in other countries. The Ikea puemita already works: it works in Venezuela, and they are as they are; it works in Greece, where pensions have fallen by 25%, and it works in Madrid, where not only have they managed to make it the dirtiest city in Spain, but they have also managed for the first time in history to have more unemployment in the capital of Madrid than in the Community of Madrid. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds.-Mr. Errejón Galván: It is not true, it is not true]] That's what their populist projects bring, not to mention other things I talked about last time. Tell Monedero that people must not be insulted; arguments must be given. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over and after a three-minute break we will make an institutional statement and the vote will begin. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote, the first secretary of the Bureau will read out an institutional statement in support of the peace process in Colombia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u58	Thank you very much, President. Institutional declaration of support for the peace process in Colombia. On 24 August, the final agreement for the end of the conflict and the construction of a stable and lasting peace between the Government of Colombia and the FARC-EP was signed in Havana, Cuba. After more than fifty years of armed conflict and four years of negotiations, a historic agreement has been reached for Colombia and all of Latin America. The agreement is a decisive step towards peace and national reconciliation in Colombia. The Congress of Deputies welcomes the FARC's decision to abandon violence and leave the weapons. The special attention given in the agreement to the victims of the conflict must be recognized. The end of the armed confrontation will mean the end of the suffering caused by the conflict to millions of Colombians. It will also contribute to greater integration of Colombian territory, greater social inclusion and strengthening Colombian democracy so that it can be deployed throughout the national territory and ensure that social conflicts are dealt with through institutional channels. From this point of view, the consensus of the various political forces, the social actors and the population of Colombia must be an objective of the same process. With this institutional declaration the Congress of Deputies wishes to show its satisfaction with the achievement of the agreement, as well as a recognition to its architects. The peacebuilding phase and the implementation of the agreements are crucial to realizing the aspirations of Colombians for peace and we recognize the role of the United Nations and the friendly countries of Colombia, such as Spain, in supporting the fulfilment of the commitments of the parties at this new stage. We offer all our political and institutional support to make peace a reality in Colombia. Congress of Deputies, September 2, 2016. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, applause is on the table.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by His Majesty the King. Confidence shall be given if the candidate obtains the favourable vote of the simple majority of the House. In accordance with Rule 85.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order but beginning, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, by the first name of the Member whose name has been, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, drawn by lot and who has been the name of Mrs Ana Marcello Santos. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. I ask the secretary to begin the vote first. Ladies and gentlemen, silence, the vote will begin. The secretaries of the Bureau are calling on the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'yes': Marcos Moyano, María Dolores Marí Bosó, José Vicente Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez González, José Luis Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel Martínez Saiz, Theophila Martínez Vázquez, Francisco Martínez-Maillo Toribio, Fernando Martín-Toledano Suárez, José Alberto Matarí Sáez, Juan José Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel Matos Mascareño, Pablo Maura Barandiaran, Fernando Merino López, Rafael Millán Salmerón, María Virginia Molinero Hoyos, Francisco Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montserrat Montserrat, Dolors Moragas Sánchez, Jorge Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria Moreno Bustos, Ramon Moreno Palanques, Rubén Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Nadal Belda, Álvaro María Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez, Fernando Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Nieto Ballesteros, José Antonio Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Palmer Tous, Teresa Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel Pérez Aras, Juan Vicente Pérez López, Santiago Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín Posada Moreno, Jesus Postigo Quintana, Jesús Quintanilla Barba, María del Carmen Ramírez Freire, Saul Reynés Calvache, Águeda Rivera Andrés, Irene Rivera de la Cruz, Marta María Rivera Díaz, Albert Roca Mas, Jordi Rodriguez Hernández, Melisa Rojas García, Carlos Red Noguera, Pilar Roldán Monés, Antonio Romero Hernández, Carmelo Romero Rodríguez, María Eugenia Salvador Armendáriz, Carlos Casimiro Salvador García, Luis Miguel Santa Ana Fernández, María de la Concepción de Suárez Lamata, Eloy Tarno Blanco, Ricardo Ten Oliver, Vicente Tremiño Gomez, Ignacio Valmaña Ochaíta, Silvia Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén Vazquez Rojas, Juan María Vera Pró, Juan Carlos Villalobos Talero, Celia Villegas Pérez, José Manuel Viso Diéguez, Miguel Ángel Zoido Alvarez, Juan Ignacio Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria Acedo Penco, Pedro Aguiar Rodríguez, Ernesto Aguirre Rodríguez, Ramon Alba Mullor, María Dolores Albaladejo Martínez, Joaquín Alli Martínez, Íñigo Jesús Alonso Aranegui, Alfonso Alonso Díaz-Guerra, José Jaime Alós López, Ana Isabel Alvarez Palleiro, Felix Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros, María Carmen Angle Romero, Maria Teresa Asian González, Matilde Pastora Ayllón Manso, José Luis Under Prieto, Maria Luz Barrachina Ros, Miguel Barreda de los Ríos, Leopoldo Barrios Tejero, José María Bastida Bono, Elena Maria Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Bernabé Pérez, Francisco Martín White Garrido, Maria Mar Blasco Marqués, Manuel Bonilla Dominguez, Mary Jesus Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Bravo Baena, Juan Burgos Gallego, Thomas Cabrera Carmona, Eloísa Maria Camps Devesa, Gerardo Candon Adam, Alfonso Cano Fuster, José Cano Leal, Francisco Javier Singing García del Moral, Antonio Carreño Fernández, María Ascension Married White, Pablo Cascals Martínez, Loreto Barber Boy, José María Clavell López, Oscar Clemente Giménez, Diego Courtesy Bureta, Pilar Balmaseda Cotello, Mar From Above Sanchez, Welcome From Barrionuevo Gener, Avelino From Cospedal García, María Dolores De la Torre Díaz, Francisco De Campo Estaún, Sergio From the Sanz River, Emilio Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Díaz Gómez, Guillermo Dueñas Martínez, María del Carmen Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio Berzal Squadron, Beatriz Marta Spain Queen, Carolina Faba de la Incarnation, Elena Fernández de Moya Romero, José Enrique Fernández García, Eduardo Floriano Corrales, Carlos Javier Gammazo Micó, Oscar Garaulet Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel García Cañal, José Ramón García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Hernández, José Ramón García-Pelayo Jurado, María José García-Tizón López, Arturo Garrido Valenzuela, Irene Vidal Swivel, Juan Carlos Gomez Balsera, Marcial Gómez García, Rodrigo González Guinda, María del Carmen González Muñoz, Ángel Luis González Terol, Antonio González Vázquez, Marta Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel Heredia Martín, Silvia Hernández Bento, María del Carmen Hernando Fraile, Rafael Antonio Herrero Bono, José Alberto Hole Juliá, Bethlehem Igea Arisketa, Francisco Isac García, Angels Juncal Rodríguez, Juan Manuel Lara Carbo, Maria Teresa of Lassalle Ruiz, José María Llorens Torres, José Ignacio Lopez Ares, Susana Lorenzo Rodríguez, Sunday Lorenzo Torres, Miguel Luis Rodríguez, Theophilus of Madrazo Díaz, Ana Maria Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'no': Marcello Santos, Ana Martín González, Lucia Martín González, María Guadalupe Martínez Rodríguez, María Rosa Martínez Seijo, María Luz Matute García de Jalón, Oskar Maura Zorita, Eduardo Javier Mayoral Perales, Rafael Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Mena Arca, Joan Miquel and Valenti, Sergi Monereo Pérez, Manuel Montero Gil, Irene María Montero Soler, Alberto Moya Matas, Jaume Muñoz González, Pedro José Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olòriz Serra, Joan Palacín Guarné, Gonzalo Pascual Peña, Sergio Pastor Muñoz, Rosana Peña Waiter, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Domínguez, María Soledad Pérez Herráiz, Margarita Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan Postius Terrado, Antoni Pradas Torres, Antonio Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro Rallo Lombarte, Artemi Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Robles Fernández, Margarita Rodriguez García, Isabel Rodríguez Hernández, Juana Amalia Rodríguez Martínez, Angela Rodriguez Ramos, María Soraya Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Romingera Salazar, María del Mar Rufián Romero, Gabriel Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Health Areste, María Isabel Salvador i Duch, Jordi Sánchez Amor, José Ignacio Sánchez Melero, Tania Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Sánchez Serna, Javier Santos Itoiz, Eduardo Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Jiménez, María Jesús Sibine Camps, Marta Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Simancas Simancas, Rafael Six Churches, Ricardo Sorli Fresquet, Marta Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Surra Spadea, Ana Maria I'm late for Coma, Joan. Terron Berbel, Ana Belén Torres Mora, José Andrés Trevín Lombán, Antonio Ramón María Tundador Moreno, Victoria Begoña Urquizu Sancho, Ignacio Valido Pérez, Carmen Vendrell Gardeños, Josep Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia Vidal Sáez, Aina Old vineyard, Raimundo Vila Gómez, Miguel Xucla i Costa, Jordi Yllanes Suárez, Juan Pedro Zaragoza Alonso, José Abalos Meco, José Luis Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Alba Goveli, Nayua Miriam Alconchel Gonzaga, Miriam Alonso Cantorné, Felix Alonso Clusa, Rosa Ana Alvarez Alvarez, Angels Antón Cacho, Javier Arevalo Caraballo, María Teresa Acute Casting, Pedro Azpiazu Uriarte, Pedro María Baldoví Roda, Joan Ballester Muñoz, Angela Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Barreda Fontes, José María Battle and Ruiz, Enric Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Beitialarrangement Lizarralde, Marian Nice Accensi, Ferran Belarus Urteaga, Ione Bellido Acevedo, Pablo Bescansa Hernández, Carolina Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Bosaho Gori, Rita Gertrudis Botejara Sanz, Amparo Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Bustamante Martín, Miguel Ángel Bustinduy Amador, Pablo Camacho Sánchez, José Miguel Villar Camera, Gregorio Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Campuzano i Canadés, Carles Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Candle Serna, Ignasi Carrera de Castro, Zaida Cañamero Valle, Diego I'm sure you're welcome, Joan. Chapel and Farre, Esther Green Carracedo, José David Carreño Valero, Sara Ciscar Casabán, Ciprià Ciuro i Buldo, Lourdes Cruz Rodríguez, Manuel Cello Pérez, Carmen Rocío De Frutos Madrazo, María del Rocío De la Concha García-Mauriño, María Asunción Jacoba Pía De la Encina Ortega, Salvador Antonio Del Olmo Ibáñez, Juan Manuel Delgado Ramos, Juan Antonio Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Diaz Trillo, José Juan Domènech Sampere, Francesc Xavier Elorza González, Odón Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Errejón Galván, Íñigo Esteban Bravo, Aitor Farré Fidalgo, Sonia Fernández Bello, Miguel Anxo Elias Fernández Castañón, Sofia Fernández Diaz, Jesús María Fernández Gómez, Alexandra Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Florez Rodríguez, María Aurora Franco Carmona, Isabel Franchise Vera, Sebastian Galeano Gracia, Oscar Gallego Arriola, María del Puerto Galovart Carrera, María Dolores García Mira, Ricardo Antonio García Puig, María del Mar García Sempere, Eva Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio González Bayo, Josefa Immaculate González García, Second González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel González Veracruz, María Guijarro García, Txema Guinart Moreno, Lydia Gutiérrez Limones, Antonio Heredia Díaz, Miguel Ángel Hernando Vera, Antonio Hernanz Costa, Sofia Homs Molist, Francesc Honorato Chulián, María Auxiliadora Hurtado Zurera, Antonio Turrion Churches, Pablo Manuel Jiménez Tortosa, Juan Jordan and Roura, Teresa Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lasarte Iribarren, José Javier Lastra Fernández, Adriana Legarda Uriarte, Mikel López Álvarez, Patxi López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio López Milla, Julián Lucio Carrasco, María Pilar Luena López, Caesar Luis Bail, Jorge Madina Muñoz, Eduardo Government members in office who said 'yes': Rajoy Brey, Mariano Sáenz de Santamaría Antón, María Soraya García-Margallo y Marfil, José Manuel Catalá Polo, Rafael Montoro Romero, Cristóbal Ricardo Fernández Díaz, Jorge Mendez de Vigo Montojo, Íñigo Báñez García, María Fatima García Tejerina, Isabel Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Reyes Rivera, Patricia Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, Alicia Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Take Take, José Ignacio Pastor Julián, Ana Maria Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Exposito Prieto, Marcelo Gordo Pérez, Juan Luis Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria Navarro Garzón, Micaela
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u60	Are there any honourable Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] The counting of votes cast shall therefore be carried out. [[Pause]] Made the count, he said
ParlaMint-ES_2016-09-02-CD160902.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the vote was as follows: votes cast, 350; votes in favour, 170; votes against, 180; abstentions, 0. In the absence of the required majority and, consequently, in the absence of the House's confidence in the investiture, this circumstance shall be communicated to his majesty by the king for the purposes of article 99.4 of the Constitution. The meeting rose. It was nine o'clock at night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 4, corresponding to the Plenary held on Wednesday 31 August 2016, on page 53, second line of Mr Tardà i Coma's intervention, where he says: 'No the terrorists by.', you must say: 'We don't have them for.'. Also, on page 73, fifth paragraph, where it says: 'Strictly, in Basque,...', it must say: 'Derrigor, in Basque,...'. Finally, on page 73 of the quoted Journal of Sessions, sixth paragraph, where it says: '... to tell you not to...', it must say: '... to tell you that yes or no...'. Electronic edition prepared by the State Agency Official State Gazette - http://boe.es
