ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u1	The meeting was resumed. We now turn to the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mrs Carolina Bescansa Hernández, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u2	Madam Vice-President, we are familiar with a legislature that looks very little like the others. The question is simple: will they turn an exceptional act of government, the application of article 134, into a rule that is abducting the legislative function of this House?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u3	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is the third time I have spoken to a member of your parliamentary group. I think I have more answers to your Members than those who are sitting in their seats today. I say this because your colleague Errejón and your colleague Pablo Iglesias, fifteen days earlier, asked the government to replace the legislative initiative of this House and you say today that the government kidnaps it. I know it is very difficult in other forums, but at least in Parliament there is a need for unity of opinion, and I believe that the best thing we can do is to separate powers and respect the powers that each one of us has in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bescansa, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u6	I believe, Madam Vice-President, that you should feel very honored because we ask you so much. That means we think you have a lot of responsibilities. In fact, I think that not only do we think about it, but many people think about it. In the last fifty days you have vetoed at the Bureau of Congress the processing of fourteen bills. That means they're vetoing an average of something every three days. It is an average that has no precedent in the functioning of the Courts, it is an average that has no explanation if it is not because you are using Article 134 of the Constitution as the shovel with which to dig the last trench in which you can continue to rule as if you had absolute majority without having it. People have put us in this House - and the Courts and the Constitution so define it in their functions - to change people's living conditions, to change the situation in health, to change the situation in education, sometimes not just change the laws, even apply them. That has a lot to do with public resources. In fact, that is what the Courts are for, to organize how public resources are distributed. Well, you're vetoing, you're saying the courts don't have the power to reorder the distribution of public resources. That means that by the way of the facts they are saying that here we cannot legislate on what is important. That's not what they've had to do so far. Why? Because they had absolute majority. But when they don't have it, when they know they can lose most of the votes that are being held here, as it is actually happening, what they do is take that shovel that gives them the Constitution, that exceptional shovel, to dig that last trench into which to take refuge and continue to rule with absolute majority without having it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u7	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. That the Government does not abduct anything shows that in the month and a half that we have been in this legislature eighteen proposals for the law of its groups have been debated in this House. Therefore, there is a debate here and there are important issues here, laws that are as laws and as approved by this House as the General Budgets of the State Act, which is precisely what the Government is trying to protect and protect from these inconsistencies. Let's talk about what matters and the figures. In these disagreements, this House spent 15 billion euros on a coup. Do you know what that is? Half the money from all the ministries of the General Administration of the State. If you spend 15 billion euros on one shot, how do we pay the transfers for education and health to the autonomous communities? How do we pay for the infrastructure that one plenary after another demands of us in this House? How do we pay each and every one of the public subsidies that depend on the State's General Budgets? Thirdly, Your Honor, review the record, because there are precedents. In the legislature of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero there were ninety-six disagreements. But most importantly, what this Government is trying to do with its constitutional powers is to preserve recovery. Look, Your Honor, for spending without control, this country was on the verge of a rescue; for spending without control, in other states ruled by parties like yours all that expenditure has ended up being paid by pensioners and middle classes; for spending without control, Your Honor, you can put yourself in doubt, devalue yourself and repeal the recovery. Mrs Bescansa, a council, someone has to be responsible, in this case the People's Party government will be, but I will tell you something very direct and very clear: demagoguery does not generate...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u9	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO FIND THE EXPRESS CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM NEEDED TO Is the commitment to eliminate the outbursts of the Spanish Government's deputies, senators and members of the Spanish Government under item 94 of our Investigative Agreement? [[File number 180/000068]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u10	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u11	Thank you, President. Vice-President, in this legislature we have an important challenge to regain the confidence of the citizens. The second problem for the Spaniards, despite the crisis and economic problems, remains corruption. In addition, we have proposed some measures in those demands that Citizens ask for in exchange for launching this legislature. There are three basic points that we believe can help regain confidence. First, the reform of the judiciary. We want the judges to choose the majority of members of the judiciary, not the politicians and the leaders of the parties to choose the judges. That is one of the reforms that we need to implement, as reflected in that agreement. The second point is undoubtedly the anti-corruption pact. We want to free from suspicion the seats of this House and the Government of any judicial investigation for corruption that any Member of this House or any member of this House or of the Government may suffer. And the third one, which is why I am asking you, is the suppression of squabbles because if politicians cannot place judges or remove them and, moreover, no one can screw up the seat to go to a special or privileged court, we will surely be able to regain the confidence of the citizens. I would like to ask you, Vice-President, for that point 94 of the agreement which speaks of abolishing political and elected positions: what the Government intends to do or whether we need to get the parliamentary groups into action but, above all, what needs to be done so that in the first quarter of the following year, in the first session, we can implement a reform which I sincerely believe all Spaniards, regardless of their ideology, expect from us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u12	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. For consistency, I have to answer you about the reform of the Constitution in the same terms as your colleagues in Podemos: that the Government has never promoted any draft reform of the Constitution - and there have been - because that is a competence that the General Courts have always assumed. But also out of consistency I say to you that the People's Party is a party that fulfils its commitments, that we have a commitment to you in paragraph 94 of our agreement, that we also have a commitment to the citizens as a whole, that is to work for democratic regeneration and that, moreover, these Chambers have already established that commitment to us in a law of March 2015 that we have to comply with. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u15	Thank you very much, President. We have 266 senators and 350 deputies, along with members of the Government, affected by two articles of the Constitution, 71.3 and 102.1. Both articles can be changed in this House and in an express way; in fact that is what the agreement says, it does not take three years to abolish the outbursts. Because I hope, moreover, that - in this case we can - they will not veto or stop the suppression of strangulations; no one would understand it and I hope that we will be able to do so quickly and quickly in this House. Therefore, Vice-President, what we want is that just as you changed an article like 135 in an express way and for the needs of that moment, at this time when people do not trust politics - in an express way - all parties in the first quarter of this year let's get to work and we can say that politicians do not want privileges, that we want to go to the same court as the other Spanish citizens. If we do that, Vice-President, it will be a step forward from what has not been done in recent years but, above all, for people to regain confidence in this House again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u16	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that, in addition to changing the weightings, we will have to do many other things to dignify politics and regain confidence. But since you ask me about the riggings, I will put to you three or four questions that I believe we will have to clarify in order to continue to make progress in those work. The system of rigging, of determining procedural competence is a whole and, logically, with the reform of the Constitution we arrange a part. There are 2,000 outposts between public and elected posts; then we have 15,000 judges and prosecutors and 263,000 partial outposts belonging to the State Security Forces and Corpses. Even if we are only going to do the first one, as you said, with the reform of the Constitution we arrange 650 outages but we have the rest until we reach 2,000. Therefore, we will have to analyse and accompany the reform of the Constitution with the reform of nineteen autonomous statutes, with that of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, with that of the Regulatory Law of the Ombudsman and with those of other regulatory laws of other institutions that outlaw presidents and members of the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court and the General Council of the Judiciary. Secondly, I have read the programme of everyone in this House and here there is already a first question that raises my doubts and it is whether we are going to eliminate the outbursts for all crimes or only for those unrelated to public life because that is what the Socialist Party, you and the Party We can defend. If this is so, we will have to define what is meant by offences of public life and if not, we will have to accompany, at least as far as members of the Government are concerned, other jurisdictional orders such as the contentious-administrative, because you already know that criminal jurisdiction is preferential. On the other hand, Your Honor,... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE NATIONAL POLICE BODY ACTS WITH DILIGENCE WHEN THE COMMISSION OF A CRIME IN WHICH A POLICE AGENT MAY BE INVOLVED? [[File number 180/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u19	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u20	Thank you very much, President. Minister of the Interior, the question is brief: Do you think that there is sufficient diligence in cases of special gravity involving a member of the State Security Forces and Bodies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u21	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u22	The National Police Corps is routinely characterized by due diligence, even when one of its members is affected by some police or judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u24	Thank you very much, President. Minister, I'm surprised at your answer. Do you know who Pedro Alvarez was? Do you know? I'll tell you what. Pedro Álvarez was a twenty-year-old boy shot in the morning of December 15, 1992, twenty-four years ago. The main suspect was a national police officer. Even today his relatives and practically all Hospitalet are waiting for a trial because he didn't even get to court his case. The problem, Minister of the Interior, is that there are a lot of Pedros Alvarez. [[A Member: What a barbarity!- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u25	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u26	I ask you to meet your family, Pedro Álvarez's father and tell him what he said here today. No more impunity. I invite you to take advantage of this microphone in front of you and the power given to you by the Government of the Spanish State to dignify your memory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u27	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u28	Mr Rufián, the action of the National Police when it comes to offences committed by or with the participation of public officials, i.e. the National Police, is undoubtedly due to the criminal law we have and applies to them as well. I'm sorry about the statements you just made. I don't know if you've tried to insinuate it, but with regard to this murder of twenty-two years ago by Pedro Álvarez, I can tell you that I'm doing nothing for you. In the exercise of the work of the police they have only one enemy, the crime, and their only friends are the law and the victims. Mr. Rufián, you have intended to stain the name of the National Police Corps and the national police with your question and your assertions and question your work. I want you to know something, the rule of law works in Spain. If a member of the State Security Forces and Bodies makes a mistake, he pays like anyone else. Mr. Rufián, allow me to make a statement. You believed, perhaps, that I did not know who Pedro Alvarez was and what had happened to him. You didn't put it in the question, but here it is. Mr. Rufián, I have the data, I've been interested. Mr. Álvarez died as a result of bullets, but it has not been credited - and judicially so it was archived - that the police were the author of the shots that ended Pedro Álvarez's life. The problem is judicial, if it exists, because there is no lack of police diligence; there is a record of the proceedings, because it was not shown that it could have been that police officer who committed the criminal act that you applied to him. And when I see the family, I'll look them in the face, as well as you. The one who makes it, pays it. We have a rule of law that we have to defend among all who are here, because it is the guarantee of freedom and also the security of all Spaniards. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS CASIMIRO SALVADOR ARMENDARIZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT VALUE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT DURING THE AGREES TO CIVIL GUARDS AND THEIR APPROACH IN THE LOCALITY OF SHIPS OF ALASSA? [[File number 180/000072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u29	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Interior by Mr Carlos Casimiro Salvador Armendáriz of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on 15 October two civilian guards and their partners were attacked in the Navarra village of Alsasua. It wasn't a simple bar fight, it was another step in the permanent escalation of harassment towards the Civil Guard to sow hatred and fuel fear. The novelty in this case was not that the families of the aggressors supported them, nor that the political platforms where they militate to them, the novelty, in this case, to note, has been the support to the aggressors by the main institutions of Navarre, led by the president of the Government, Uxue Barkos, now protected by Bildu, who have taken sides in favor of the aggressors and not in favour of the victims. It is this novelty that allows me to ask you the question on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u31	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u32	Your Honor, the Government, whom I represent here today from this seat, shows its support for the Civil Guard and the rest of the public servants working to ensure the freedom and security of all. I have had the opportunity on several occasions to express support and support to each and every member of the Civil Guard and the National Police Corps. In this case, she asks me what we feel from the Government about that aggression suffered by two civilian guards and their partners in Alsasua. The entire Government supports these two civilian guards and their partners. They have our support and our recognition. As for my assessment of the work of the Government of Navarre, the Government believes that we need to be very clear on freedoms and that we cannot be led by our prejudices, our sympathies or political alliances, which are sometimes undesirable. Your Honor, freedoms must be respected, and for a responsible government that respect for freedoms, and above all for the freedom of each and every citizen, it must be something fundamental, regardless of the political, religious, sexual belief, even of the professional dedication that one has; and anyone who does not is seriously mistaken. To insist on those mistakes I think it is a very serious mistake. The Civil Guard may be the most valued institution in the entire Spanish State, something worth highlighting here today. Moreover, today we have learned that all the associations of Navarra victims have also rejected the position of the Navarra Government. And the Government of Spain wants to demonstrate in this case, and from this seat I do it right now, its support for all the victims and all the associations of victims of terrorism. I believe that all those governments that do not support the victims of terrorism are wrong, because they cannot compare the victims with the executioners. Just as it is necessary to support all public servants, be they of the body, Ertzaintza, Mossos and any public servant, what they do - I insist - is to guarantee our freedom, to guarantee our security, but above all to guarantee the exercise of all rights, also of the meeting. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u34	Thank you. Minister, I fully agree with you. Where an exclusive ideology is imposed, fear, silence and lack of freedom triumph, and peace and law recede. An English politician wrote that in order for evil to succeed, it is only necessary for good men to do nothing. And that is precisely why these civilian guards were assaulted. They were attacked for doing their job well, for being an example of service to the community, because they represent what the violent want to destroy: order, law, peace, coexistence in peace, democracy, freedom, Navarre, Spain. I want you, Minister, to convey our support and gratitude to them and to tell them not to lower their guard because today there are still people who support violence as a form of political action on the streets, in some of the peoples they control, and unfortunately there are also the main institutions in Navarre trying to whitewash the criminal history of ETA and also wanting to impose their totalitarian project. The neighbours of Alsasua have all the right of the world to live freely and to be able to express themselves as shipwrecks and Spaniards without coercion and fear, beyond the complicitys that today in Navarre forge our highest authorities with whom they have always sought to take political slices of conflict and violence. They have every right in the world, and we are also going to demand that all Democrats defend it. Remember what Burke once again said: For evil to triumph, it is only necessary for good men to do nothing. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u35	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MERITXELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: CAN THE GOVERNMENT EXPLAIN THE MEASURES TO BE IMPLEMENTED BEFORE THE HUMANITARIAN EMERGENCY OF REFUGEES IN EUROPE? [[File number 180/000075]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u36	Questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question from Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u37	Thank you, President. Minister, Spanish society, autonomous communities and municipalities, the vast majority of political forces, we want to lead a fairer international agenda and defend rights. What does the Government intend to do to address the humanitarian emergency of refugees?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u38	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u39	Your Honor, thank you very much. The migration and refugee crisis is being a priority of this Government from the outset; financial priority, because we have spent more than 1.7 billion, in addition to the more than 10,000 that the European Union is spending, and operational priority because we have participated in rescue and rescue actions, we have participated in relocation and resettlement measures within the framework of the European Union and we will continue to do so as long as this Government is exercising its functions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u41	Thank you, President. Allow me, Minister: Kamar, a baby with severe respiratory problems, is still waiting for a humanitarian visa; you know the case because the parliamentary group has brought it to you and I am convinced that you will find a solution. Yaman, twenty years old, was a student at the university of Latakia, had a life, a future and at the moment has no life, has no perspective, has no future and instead has a mother and a brother who continue to live in Aleppo and is convinced that he will never be able to see them again. The urgency is real, tangible and affects millions of human beings; human beings who are like any of us, who are in this House or who are outside this House. I will give you three facts, three examples of political will and commitment. Canada: 39,532 in one year. Germany: 43,570. Jordan: 700,000 Syrians, more than 10% of its population. The contrast, Spain: 700 refugees. The commitment was 17,337, a ridiculous number from our point of view, but that was his commitment, his commitment, that of this Government. They fulfill at least this ridiculous commitment of 17,337 refugees. We want to build a country, we want to build a brand, we want to feel proud of Spain. For I tell you that humanitarian law, humanitarian visas, asylum, leading the change of Member States in the European Union and investing more in cooperation is a perfect, epic story to generate that brand, that country, that pride. Minister, I am convinced that you share those values. I am convinced that you are not going to fall into xenophobic tics as other comrades in your political party have done. That is why I ask that Spain be recognized in the world for the defence of human rights. Dignified. Genius decency. It brings decency to this country's humanitarian policy, because we will be proud. Lead that change from a failed international system, which is failing to beings... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u42	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, of course, this Government is going to follow with all determination in a policy of defending human rights and supporting humanitarian causes and refugees. It is true that we have some commitments that we have not achieved, but we must also bear in mind that we have one more year to implement them and I promise that after that year Spain will comply with those commitments. We want to do this - that is true - within the framework of coordinated work with the European Union. We must also compare our figures with the figures of the partners, where we see that we are among those who have done more so far. What happens is that we have to carry out a number of requirements. We will, of course, take into account particular and humanitarian cases, but we have, as I say, to check that we register, that we identify, that we make the examination under security needs because the last thing we want to do is to give a page to those who are trying to identify refugees and terrorism. That's a game we don't want to fall into in any way. This Government is committed to pursuing a policy that is determined by generosity, solidarity and responsibility. We will, I promise you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u44	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT BUSTINDUY AMADOR, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION: DO YOU HAVE PLANNED TO DESIGN SPECIALIZE ATTENTION SERVICES FOR YOUNG SPAINS IMMIGRATED TO FOREIGN? [[File number 180/000070]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u45	Question also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Mr Pablo Bustinduy Amador.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u46	Thank you very much, President. Minister, since the crisis began hundreds of thousands of compatriots had to leave the country to seek out the opportunities they did not find at home. My question is simple. Does your ministry have reliable information about these people who have had to leave the country? Does your ministry plan to launch youth-oriented services to help you in your life abroad and encourage your return home? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u47	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u48	Mr Bustinduy, we have information and we have a network of embassies and consulates that is aimed at supporting all Spaniards abroad, in particular young people and providing them with all kinds of services related to electoral processes, with consular assistance in case of need, with registration and notarial functions, with information on conditions of stay and search for work, documentation, accreditation of identity to carry out as many administrative procedures as necessary. With this, we seek that being outside Spain our young people feel as close to us as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Bustinduy.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The problem - and that's why you haven't answered the question - is that you don't even know how many compatriots we have out there. According to the INE, last year 11,182 Spaniards went to the UK, but according to British Social Security there were more than 50,000 Spaniards who were discharged. That is 137 a day and this does not include those who are working without a contract or those who have left to study. The reality is that there are hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of Spaniards who have had to emigrate because of a crisis that they did not cause and that today they are in different countries facing extremely difficult working and vital conditions. These people have not left the country, they have expelled their austerity policies and you have abandoned them to their fate. Moreover, not only that, they have legislated against them. In 2012 you passed that lame legislation that automatically terminates in the health system those who spend more than ninety days outside the country and you, with the Socialist Party, supported that regulation of the petitioned vote that has taken away their fundamental right to vote. By the way, what a shame that citizens and the Socialist Party who had committed themselves to repealing it would again vote in this House against the repeal of the requested vote. [[Applauds]] Minister, the consulates and embassies, despite the efforts of the staff working on them, are collapsing by turning every procedure for those outside into an odyssey. They have insufficient resources and hours, are characterized by misinformation and do not provide any assistance in the field of labour counselling so that the rights of our compatriots outside the country are not violated. Minister, today in Spain there is not a single family that does not have a loved one or a loved one outside. Put the means immediately in order not to abandon them to their fate. I would be ashamed to rule a country that, as in the worst moments of its history, continues to expel its people from its land. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u51	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u52	Your Honor, I believe you paint a reality that does not correspond to what exists. As I have already said, our embassies and consulates work effectively and in a dedicated way for our citizens and in particular for young people. That apocalyptic and demagogic vision I don't think is committed to reality. We haven't expelled anyone. You are painting a vision of the sixties of the last century. At present, those who come out what they show is an initiative, a concern, a broad view... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u53	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u54	...adaptability and openness to new horizons. [[Rumors.- Mrs. Bescansa Hernández: Please!]] Going out enriches... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u55	One second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, your honor is taking the floor. Please, be quiet. You will already have opportunities at every moment to answer. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u56	As I said, going away to live, to work, to enrich, to open the mind, to strengthen social skills. Perhaps it is a problem of my professional deformation, but I can assure you that leaving away does not mean renouncing responsibilities, but adapting to a better world. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER IBEROAMERICA AS A PRIORITY OBJECTIVE OF HIS POLICIES? [[File number 180/000080]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u58	He also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u59	Thank you very much, President. Minister, Spain and Ibero-America have a common past that makes us share many ties, and I am not referring only to the linguistic sphere, but we share social, cultural and even emotional ties. I firmly believe that we must convince ourselves and future generations that it is essential that we do not conform only to the relationships we have. We must deepen them and intensify them because in Ibero-America approximately 600 million people live, because it is a region with a great deal of potential, because it grows year after year and because it has a privileged geostrategic situation. We are the second country that invests the most in the region only behind the United States, and that investment represents 30% of what our companies invest abroad. In terms of trade, it is true that we grow more and more each year, but neither do we have to conform. We have a lot of capacity to export even more and above all in a much more diversified way, Minister. To achieve this, we have to do many things, but I would stress that, on the one hand, it is important that we get Ibero-America not to look so much at Asia and the Pacific, but to look more at the Atlantic and towards Europe. It is also important that we maintain the situation and the leading position we have in Ibero-America vis-à-vis our European partners. We have to be more than a bridge, we have to be the gateway; we have many tools to achieve all this, but I would like to highlight one: the Ibero-American summits. We need to take advantage of the summits because they are an opportunity to have a direct dialogue with each of the countries of Ibero-America. Minister, we believe that it is essential that Spain is increasingly in Ibero-America. The more Spain there is in Ibero-America, the better it will be for us and the more opportunities we will have for the Spaniards and vice versa. If Ibero-America enters Europe by the hand of Spain, it will be better for it. It's a win-win, we all win. Minister, the People's Parliamentary Group believes that Ibero-America should be a priority in foreign policy and I therefore ask you whether it is indeed a priority for the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u60	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u61	Your Honor, Ibero-America has been a permanent priority of foreign policy as a state policy that it is. This is reflected in article 56 of our constitutional text in reference to the nations of our historical community and is confirmed by our strategy of external action. For what it does at the present time in Ibero-America is complex but there are also elements of positive change and a great shared hope in Colombia. This context offers opportunities for the Government to give new impetus to our relations on the basis of the achievements already achieved. I will summarise what will be our main lines of action: to strengthen, as you yourself have requested, the Ibero-American community on the basis of the good results achieved by the process of reviewing the summits; to strengthen relations with the countries of the Pacific Alliance; to relaunch relations with Argentina and Brazil; to contribute, as I have said, to the construction of peace in Colombia; and to continue to strengthen our dialogue, presence and interests in Cuba. We also want to support the ongoing dialogue in Venezuela to overcome the current political and economic crisis, and of course we want to boost relations between the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean, particularly in the context of trade negotiations with Mercosur. We must also strengthen development cooperation adapted to the region, support the work of our companies and the intensification of our trade flows, and last but not least, promote our common language and culture as a historical basis for our relationship and also as a factor for economic growth. In short, Your Honor, we believe that the current situation is favourable in order to enhance that permanent priority of Spanish foreign action, which is Ibero-America. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u62	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES YOU intend to regain the implementation of the Historical Memory Law? [[File number 180/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u63	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Firstly, a question from Mrs Isabel Rodríguez García of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u64	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are very proud of the Historical Memory Act, which promoted in 2007 a socialist government, a law that magnifies our democracy, a law that recognized and extended rights to those who had suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War or the dictatorship; a law that allowed many relatives to take their dead out of the gutter and to cry and bring flowers to them, a law that in recent years the only thing you did with it was bury it. That is why I ask you today what you intend to do, what the ministry of the Presidency or its ministry intends to do in connection with the implementation of this law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u65	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u66	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I am very proud of the entire democratic heritage of this House, of all the laws that are passed and are subject to all of them, and particularly those with institutional responsibilities. Therefore, this Government - let me give you a hint of its intervention - is not going to regain implementation obviously because the laws apply all; this is not a light bulb that is turned off and turned off according to each one concerned at every moment. The Historical Memory Act is in force, the Historical Memory Act since its adoption on 26 December 2007 has had its full effect in Spain, there are many cases of good application, there are other problems, there are even daily anecdotes in its development and implementation, but I assure you that on the part of the Government - of this Government and I am sure that of the previous Government too - what we do is to give full effect to the mandates that a law passed in Parliament establishes for all public administrations and for the Government of the nation in particular. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u68	You'll admit to me that leaving your budget at zero isn't fulfilling it. And it wasn't the economy, it was the ideology. Look, I read you a literal quote from the president of the government: I would delete all those articles that talk about giving public money to recover the past. I wouldn't give a single euro of the public purse for that purpose. It was 2008, barely the crisis was dawning. It's not about turning the past around, or referring to the anecdotes, but I'll be recognized that turning the past around is what some of your party's comrades are doing. He will know what is happening in Badajoz, where regional deputies, mayors of the People's Party, the mayor of Alberche del Caudillo de Toledo presented themselves at the Francisco Franco Foundation to be awarded for failing to comply with this law, for opposing the institutions that are supporting this law and for exalting the dictatorship. That today the Francisco Franco Foundation is sending letters to the mayors of the municipalities led by the People's Party to expressly violate this law, I believe it deserves you and your Government to do something. So, Minister, it is not a question of opening wounds, it is a question of recognizing ourselves, of recognizing the dignity of families and their victims, of recognizing also in our memory our dignity, the dignity of all as a country, and I hope you will rectify, yes, because so far you have not complied with a law that is of all and I am pleased that you too understand it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u69	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I insist, the law applies every day, it applies every day. There are many cases, such as Vigo, where there is a debate about the withdrawal of a symbol in the Castro and the mayor of the city defends and has defended the maintenance of that symbol that has historical and cultural connotations. By the way, the Constitutional Court has given him the reason, and I believe that it has done very well to defend him. There are many cases of law enforcement where it is being carried out. And since the Ministry of Justice, which has these powers, it is true that we do not have a specific budget for this, but I assure you that there are different departments of the Ministry working on this every day. That is why, for example, we maintain the grave map and it is constantly updated, a grave map that has exceeded 90,000 visits in what we have been doing this year. Each year we issue certificates of recognition and restitution of honour and each year we attend consultations of the citizens who are addressed to the website or through the telephone consultation in the department. Therefore, there is a constant, permanent activity that is associated, as I say, with strict compliance with a law that is already going to be nine years old and that, therefore, had a greater intensity at the initial moment and now continues fully in its application. We have just recognized and restored the right and honour of 313 people who have promoted the City of Seville, for example, and there was unanimous agreement by all parliamentary groups. We therefore continue to work on strict law enforcement as mandated by this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u71	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DOES HE THINK TO GUARANTEE THE EFFECTIVE EXERCISE OF THE RIGHTS TO THE TRUTH, JUSTICE AND REPAIR OF VICTIMES OF INTERNATIONAL LAW CRIMENS COMMITTED DURING CIVIL WAR AND FRANCHISM? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u72	Question also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u73	Minister, how do you intend to ensure the effective exercise of the rights to truth, justice and reparation of victims of crimes under international law committed during the Civil War and Francoism?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u74	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe that rights are guaranteed as they should be in a democracy: by complying with the law. There is a law to be enforced, there is a Government that does so on a daily basis, and there is a justice that ensures that this is done. Therefore, if a person considers that the rights recognized to certain groups covered by a law are not being sufficiently protected, he has jurisdictional protection to guarantee those rights. I assure you, Your Honor, that in my perception and in my daily knowledge we work intensively to make it so and, in your case, to correct any defects that may exist in this matter that you point out or in any other State of law such as Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u77	Minister, it is not that there is an office on the Historical Memory Act; that there is no budget, that there are more than 140,000 people in the counties - the second country after Cambodia with the most missing - and you do nothing to dig them up, that you have died from either side without permission or knowledge of your relatives in the Valley of the Falles, that the flags of the Republican battalions are like war trophies in army museums, that the papers of the Basque Government are not returned, that you do nothing to boost the catalogue of vestiges relating to the Civil War, that the right to funds and archives remains restricted, that there is even a series of television in this country that presents Serrano Suñer as a nice and harmless sir... It is that Ascension Mendieta, an elderly woman of ninety years, has needed to be an Argentine judge who through an exhorto manages to open the mass grave where her father, an Argentine judge, was, and her ministry has had an evident delay in the exhorto sent to judge the nineteen accused for crimes of Francoism in the so-called Argentine lawsuit. You have also returned it, asking what the questions were. But, beyond all that, even the prosecution has prevented the Spanish plaintiffs from testifying before the courts. For example, recently in Oviedo's Judgement No. 4 to the Secretary General of Workers' Commissions. Minister, change, change, not because we are just saying it, but because the European Parliament is recently saying it in a resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the EU, at the request of our group. I read it literally: The European Parliament considers it essential that all Member States cooperate with national or international judicial investigations to clarify responsibilities in this area and to seek truth, justice and redress for victims of crimes against humanity committed in the Union by totalitarian regimes. It calls on the Member States to provide for the necessary training for justice professionals in this field, the European Commission to carry out an objective assessment of the situation of these processes, with a view to promoting democratic memory in all the Member States. Alerts that non-compliance with international recommendations on democratic memory and the principles of universal jurisdiction violates basic principles of the rule of law. Minister, be proactive, change, do not stifle and make it difficult for law enforcement and for effective justice to be achieved. Be proactive. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u79	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you insist on this idea that we do not put a budget on the implementation of the Historical Memory Act, but if there are officials who every day dedicate their day to this, they have material and instrumental means, you will tell me what they do with it. They're working, we're constantly updating that information. It seemed to me to understand, Your Honor, that it does not seem to you well that there is a television series that remembers a certain time in the history of Spain. [[Rumors]] At the moment we are not going to work so that there is censorship on television programs and tell private television what they have to broadcast or not. [[Applauds]] No, it's not our model of society to tell people what it has to do or what it has to do. I insist, Your Honor, every day there is daily work in the Ministry of Justice to update the grave map, to issue restitution certificates and to inform citizens in all this. You also point to an issue that is undoubtedly important, which is international cooperation in this case on the prosecution of certain crimes that a judge has been able to consider to have been committed. [[Rumors]] We have done nothing but comply with international treaties and the bilateral cooperation agreement, in this case, with the Republic of Argentina. [[Rumors]] The Ministry of Justice has done nothing but strictly comply with this agreement and has transferred it to the competent judges and the Office of the Attorney-General has done its work, Your Honor, it has issued a resolution that has circulated to all the peripheral prosecution offices in which it sets out a criterion, in which the prosecution certainly considers that there is no cause for opening such investigations and therefore there is no reason why anyone should be summoned to take a statement from it. But once again that is said by the prosecution, and in a state of law it is the judge of each territory, of each judicial party, who decides: if he calls to testify, if he does not call to testify, if he files or if he returns. And this is what's going on, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA JESUS MORO ALMARAZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED FOR TO IMPROVE THE AGILITY OF JUSTICE? [[File number 180/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u81	Question by Mrs María Jesús Moro Almaraz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, also to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u82	Good morning. Let's really talk about guarantees for the citizens. The president of the Supreme Court of the General Council of the Judiciary, Javier Delgado, said that justice is not photogenic. We don't think it's a photogenic problem exclusively. We note that around 45% of Spaniards consider the functioning of the Administration of Justice to be a major problem for them. Moreover, with a difference of around 20 points with other perceptions in the European Union, for our citizens justice is not up to the task. This is especially true of the length of proceedings, the idea that justice is slow, that it is not agile. However, the last barometer of the Advocate General's General Council says that 71% of citizens consider judges to be their bulwark, to be the bulwark of their rights. It is therefore not just the citizens. The dean judges in the conclusions of 2016 tell us that we have a very secure judicial system, of high quality, but not agile, and that agility is also an element for the quality of justice. These highly qualified professionals warn us of a very high number of complex causes, of avalanches of demands, of the need for increasing specialization for the type of matters, of the need for more resources. It is not surprising, therefore, that the recipients of the judicial system, the service of justice, have an inadequate, bad opinion about the agility of justice. Recently, at the beginning of the judicial process, the President of the General Council of the Judiciary told us that, although there has been record in the resolution of cases, there is still a rebound in the slowness of the proceedings. The challenges are many. The Government has expressed its priority with regard to justice and also with regard to political groups and, therefore, my group would like to ask you what measures the Government intends to take to address this challenge, for the agility of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u83	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House, in all the political debates repeatedly and in the electoral programmes we declare justice as a state policy, as a fundamental value of a democratic and legal system, so the approach to its approach is absolutely correct. We have a professional justice system, qualified, independent and undoubtedly in need of multiple reforms, and that is what we intend to devote ourselves to in this legislature, as your ladies and gentlemen already know because I had the opportunity to appear in this House before the Committee on Justice and the Senate yesterday. I am glad, indeed, that it seems to me great news that yesterday in the Committee on Justice a unanimous agreement was reached for the creation of a subcommittee for the preparation of a national justice strategy. It is certainly a good principle to start building consensus on reforms. There are many, many, the issues that we have to address, but your honor points to one of them that I think stands out: the agility, the responsiveness of the judicial system. Many things have to be done in this regard. First of all, it is necessary to modify - surely the most difficult thing - the citizenry culture around which any dispute has to be resolved through a judicial lawsuit. Strengthening agreement, consensus, mediation and arbitration is a good way to de-judicialize our society, but, as there will be millions of lawsuits every year, we need to reform procedural laws to provide them with more agility, more simplicity, in a context of certainty, but with greater effectiveness in terms of conflict resolution times. That will require more means, surely; more judges, better trained judges, more trained prosecutors and more personal means to carry it forward will be needed. Also, the use of technologies, as in any public or private service in the knowledge society of the twenty-first century, will help us to better manage that great public service of several tens of thousands of professionals, which is our justice. Finally, we need to develop laws closer to social reality. It is necessary to change much of our regulatory framework because it is true that society is still ahead of the normative reality and it would be very convenient to proceed to reform some laws. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have work to do; we have work ahead of us Members, the Government and in particular the Ministry of Justice. I am confident that the consensus that emerged yesterday in the Committee on Justice will produce proposals, projects and we will be able to take stock throughout the legislature of better justice for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u85	Thank you very much. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO TO EFFECTIVELY LOCATE AGAINST TAX FRAUD? [[File number 180/000076]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u86	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Firstly, by Mr Pedro Saura García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what is the government going to do to effectively fight tax fraud? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u88	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Saura, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago the Government declared the fight against tax fraud among its priorities. I'm talking about the beginning of 2012. Since then, this House has passed numerous laws and provided material and human resources in the fight against tax fraud, but it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that tax fraud continues to exist in Spain and, therefore, the Government calls on the House, all political groups, to take joint action to ensure that the fight against tax fraud gains efficiency quotas and approaches. We will soon bring new measures which we have discussed together with the Socialist Group, with the Citizens Group and with other political groups in this House, and we will have the opportunity to discuss among all these policy proposals. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we do not agree with you. You have shown little ambition to fight tax fraud, primarily because that would make our tax system a more progressive system. In the years that you have been minister the anti-fraud forces of the Tax Agency have fallen by three thousand. Since you are a minister, the fiscal conscience of the Spaniards has gone much worse by the scandals of the Tax Agency, by the scandals associated with the amnesty that you approved, because the Tax Agency and you too go behind all the scandals, for example those of elite footballers, or in the application of the Google rate, which yesterday approved the French Parliament to fight against the multinationals that are not complying and which the Socialist Party has brought here, to the Congress of Deputies. We are playing a role, among other things, in financing the welfare state and in approving the welfare state of the European Union. We are playing around €80 billion for the coffers of the Tax and Social Security Agency. What we need is an evaluable plan, an evaluable strategy by independent bodies, also by the Congress of Deputies. It is incredible - because in all European parliaments there is already a special anti-fraud committee - which in this Parliament - the Socialist Party has been asking for - there is no special committee to evaluate and combat fraud, with measurable and evaluable objectives. Your numbers, which you regularly raise in the fight against fraud, are creative accounting. There's no one to evaluate those numbers independently. They are part of the government's car bomb, they are part of Mr Montoro's make-up factory, S.A., in relation to the fight against fraud and also in relation to fair taxation. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u92	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Saura, you're going to go further, but I insist you don't go back on your steps. Let's look ahead once and for all. We are at the beginning of a new legislature, we are facing a different political situation in this House. Let's do it. This does not mean reproaching the outcome and effectiveness of the Tax Agency, behind which are the commitment, professionalism and all the dedication of more than 25,000 professionals. Those results are there, they're tangible. That is what we have to value, and you will have the willingness of the Government to undertake the assessments and the political and parliamentary procedures that you believe. As you said yesterday in the Senate, Mr Saura, we are in your hands for many things and I am sure that for many positive things for Spain and for the Spaniards, including the effective fight against tax fraud. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u94	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF MANUAL Iglesias Turrion, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT MEASURES HAVE THE GOVERNMENT THOUGHT TO APPLY TO AVOID TAX FRAUD IN THE WORLD OF THE FUTURE? [[File number 180/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u95	Question by Mr Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrión, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u96	Minister, what steps does your government intend to take to combat tax fraud in the football world?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u97	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u98	Thank you, Madam President. The world of football is subject to tax legislation, like everyone else. As his lordship knows - although it is obviously his right to ask the question he understands the government - the Tax Agency is implementing this legislation in the world of football and in the economic world in general, in the world of everything that can be the conscience and the validity of tax fraud. Let me finish this first speech by saying that, as I had the opportunity last week to respond to Mr Domènech, who is also from his political group, on this very issue, is that interest that Podemos has in football more than just a hobby? [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u100	Thank you. Minister, I have limited experience in Parliament, but I suspect that my group's relationship with your Government in the control sessions to the government is starting to be somewhat erratic. We ask you a question, you interpret it as an attack and sometimes you answer us talking about Venezuela, and sometimes you tell us that traveling abroad is great because it is an enriching experience or because you learn some languages. I even detect different levels in your government; yours is good. It is not yet at the level of the Vice-President, who, after Mr Margallo's disappearance from the blue bank, has remained in the only reserve of grey matter in his government and who the other day even quoted Ernesto Laclau speaking of significants. But I would like us to abandon this erratic dynamic on an issue like this and not to respond to me that you are going to do exactly the same as you are doing with everything, because if I ask you about this issue, perhaps, Minister, it is an extraordinary question, at least for two reasons. First of all, we are talking about an international mafia plot that connects offshore societies and dark interests dedicated professionally to scamping simultaneously with the public finances of different countries. This is not like investigating tax fraud in the world of botany. And, secondly, there is a worrying element, the informative silence. We're not talking about this, Mr. Montoro. We have even seen judges ban this from being talked about, certainly by adjusting to law, but it is very rare, it has been very difficult for me to inform myself of this issue. Who do we have to be talking about, what powers do we have to be talking about so that in this country we do not report tax fraud in an industry that moves astronomical amounts of millions of euros and that, moreover, is an industry that conditions the passions of many of us, because many of us like football? Please answer me with something more specific; do not tell me that you are pursuing tax fraud with the usual measures. Tell me what specific measures your Government has to pursue fraud in the football world and what it thinks of this extraordinary situation. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u101	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, according to the General Tax Law, neither the Government nor any public official can make public their investigations. That's right, that's our legislation. If you have the suggestion to change it, bring it to Parliament but don't be surprised that that happens. By the way, it happens in almost all the developed countries of the world, they have the same legislation. But if you intend to change it, alter it, you will carry on that the Minister of Finance to which you belong will rise and report specifically on tax proceedings on a taxpayer. But that doesn't happen in Spain or in most countries; it can happen in any of them, you're right. Do so, promote legislative changes but do not insist on what you are already doing, not the government but the tax agency with all its professionalism, which is effectively pursuing tax fraud. And that, as you see, you don't stand in front of influential people, in front of famous people, in front of anyone. The fraud that tax residents also have outside Spain is being pursued, but that corresponds to actions that go beyond the scope of the House itself, we have to do so together with the European Union. That's what we're on, Mr. Churches. Let us also be constructive in these monitoring sessions and, in this regard, it will also be up to the Government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF César Joaquín Ramos Esteban, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which formulates to the Lord Minister of Fomento: What plans does the Government have with regard to the revision of the state of the self-preservation highways in which they live? [[File number 180/000078]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u104	Questions to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr César Joaquín Ramos Esteban, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u105	Minister, we want to know - and the Spanish citizens also want to know - what you are going to do with the broken toll roads. Don't try to throw balloons out; all responsibility in this matter lies with the governments of the People's Party, all of it. They planned, developed and inaugurated these toll freeways; they liked the opening the most. And I also recommend that we not enter the war of numbers. The same outrage creates in the citizens 2,000, 3,000 or 5 billion euros; the same outrage, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u106	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. The plans of the Government, of the Ministry of Development in relation to this matter, as I brought them to the House's Committee on Development this Monday, are, first of all, to ensure that the motorways continue to function, that they are available to those who wish to use them. Secondly, try to find a difficult agreement to minimize the condition that this situation can create in society as a whole. Thirdly, continue to take measures to protect or increase the protection of the State from such situations in the future of administrative concessions.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u109	Minister, take a good look at this picture. [[Show a picture]] Do you recognize him? It is the picture of the shame and it will cost us all the Spanish 5 billion euros, which is said soon, 5 billion euros. In order to take the photo they had to distort traffic figures and construction costs. I recommend that this photo be in all departments of the Ministry of Development so that we do not repeat a case like this, which is a real shame. Minister, Aznar's statement on the day of the photo was that this was a milestone and he was absolutely right, it was a milestone of mismanagement, waste and partisan politics with the resources of all Spaniards. His companion in that photo, Gallardón, said much more: It will be remembered by many generations. And he was right, too. Every day an unemployed person stands up remembers these €5 billion, not knowing if he's going to find a job. Just as young people who have had to migrate and who, after the Christmas holidays, will have to take a plane to get away from their families will remember. Also parents, who sleep every day without knowing what they are going to feed their children the next day. Don't tell us as your predecessor - if you remember it well - that it wasn't going to cost us a hard one to any Spanish, nor a hard one - they lied knowingly - or that it was a good business, as Rafael Catalá said very recently. Who was it good business for, Minister? Recognize your mistakes and review the procedures so that they do not happen again. This cannot happen again; those responsible for this should be disqualified from public office for life and have an economic sanction. Minister, you can't leave with rositas. Minister, accept and implement the proposal we presented to you on Monday, which aims to plan the infrastructures taking into account the interests of all, of all and not the partisans. Thus citizens will never again pay for the bankruptcy of toll freeways in this country. They were planned thinking about the interests of others. They've been spent... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. Mr. Ramos, to be honest, you are not here to give lessons on this matter. He could have brought the photo in which they signed the participatory loans, worth 483 million euros, to different concessionaires; he could have brought here the photo of when they approved the compensation accounts for more than 80 million euros, articulated through the Postal Service Law 43/2010, to compensate precisely those expenses, or he could have brought the photo in which they began to increase the rates and concessional deadlines of these highways. For example, in the R-2 where you extended the period of fourteen years and raised the rate by 2%; in the one of AlicanteCartagena, where you did the same with 1%; in the R-3 and the R-5, where you increased the rates by 18%; in the one of Malaga-Las Pedrizas, where after two months of entry into service you increased the rates by 20%, nothing more and nothing less, or the R-4, where you did by 2%; to say just a few of them. I could have brought the photos of these actions or that of the study that left us - thank God the minister Ana Pastor did not attend to this study - in which they proposed to rescue the concessions that you considered unviable, such as that of Madrid-Toledo or the axis of the airport, and they would extend in more than ten years the term of the ten mature concessions. That is what your group, the Socialist Party, not the People's Party, has done, which has not put a single euro over these years, but has attempted - and has done - regulatory changes to minimize the impact of these kinds of issues in the future. So if you want to see responsibilities, look at your sidekicks who also had a lot to do with this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF JOSÉ MANUEL VILLEGAS PEREZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DO TO DEPRESS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FAILURE OF PLANNING IN THE CONCEPTION, AJUDICATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF BUILDED RADIAL AUTHORISTS? [[File number 180/000069]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u112	Question by Mr José Manuel Villegas Pérez, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u113	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, it has become clear to us that neither you nor the Socialist Party can take on board infrastructure. In this country, the Spanish during these years of crisis have suffered cuts in basic public services. The Spaniards have endured that there is no money to pay the rights that the law grants to the most vulnerable, to those affected by dependency. The Spaniards have endured that their government, that Mr Montoro, would raise their taxes and continue to raise them to this day. Well, these same Spaniards are having breakfast these days with the news that the incompetence of their governments, of the governments of the People's Party, in managing public money, is going to cost us 5.5 billion euros. That is why I ask you, Minister, what the government intends to do to clean up responsibilities for the crash in the award of the broken motorways. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u114	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Villegas. I have just told you what the Government intends to do: set in motion and guarantee these motorways and their operation, implement measures to minimize that impact and, especially - I will now tell you about them, if you wish to know them, for I hope that what you want is to look to the future and see how we can try to minimize these kinds of issues in future administrative concessions - take a number of measures to make it possible to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Villegas. The sign VILLEGAS PÉREZ: Minister, it is clear that there will be no consequences for cod. You, your Government, made highways without calculating how many vehicles were going to pass or how much were going to cost the land that had to be expropriated. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, who seek to teach good management lessons, are, together with the Socialist Party, the main leaders of a country with motorways without cars, a country with airports without planes and a country with trains without passengers. He has not said what consequences he will have, what they intend to do to clear up responsibilities, but at least take the time to look into the eyes of the Spaniards and apologize for their mismanagement and tell them that this is not going to happen again. And so that it doesn't happen again, pay attention to the proposals that Citizens put on his table. Change the law that regulates the management's patrimonial responsibility to avoid continuing with the capitalism of friends, with businesses without risk. Increase transparency in these types of contracts. Let us plan and design among all the infrastructures of this country, according to the needs and not according to the balls of some or the political needs of a politician in the campaign. Have an independent body report on the suitability of public works, so that it is not the incumbent politician who decides. Let us do something to prevent their mismanagement from continuing to cost billions to all Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u117	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u118	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mr Villegas. The honourable Member, indeed, this traffic was lower from 2008 to 2012 than originally foreseen, among other issues, because there was an average reduction in traffic throughout the country on these toll roads and on the set of state toll roads around 35%, something frankly difficult to predict at the time the economic crisis began. As for expropriations, the decision is made with a jury, the juror of expropriations, who took into account the value according to the classification of the soil. It is then difficult to look for responsibilities after the judges issued that these lands should have been valued as urban and that the value of these lands should be increased by almost 2 billion, without, of course, any recourse being made by the Socialist Group on this issue. That is why I share many of the questions that you raise for the future, and that is what we have proposed to you, a national agreement in the framework of infrastructure, in the framework of transport, to adopt measures for the future, such as, for example, that the Administration can act, as the Socialist Party did not do, if the costs of expropriations are multiplied without reasonable cause; and to put in place leniency resources in order to meet these price increases. Secondly, I share with you the establishment of independent mechanisms that will also ensure that future concessions are auctioned with the most appropriate feasibility possible, and for this we will have the national evaluation office, created in Law 40/2015, which can be perfectly charged with analysing the desirability of bidding or not these concessions. And, third, hardening everything that has to do with risk and venture, and for this purpose the Contract Law - I encourage you to participate and make contributions - can propose precisely to make a transfer of the expropriation risk to the private. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u119	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA ISABEL ALÓS LÓPEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHAT VALUE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 385 MILLIONS GRANTED TO THE CC.AA. for programmes to improve educational quality? [[File number 180/000081]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u120	Questions to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mrs Ana Isabel Alós López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u121	Thank you, Madam President. On 9 December last the Council of Ministers approved, on the basis of the agreement adopted at the last Sectoral Conference on Education, the transfer of EUR 385 million to the Autonomous Communities, the aim of which is the development of measures and programmes to improve the education system. The agreement includes such important programmes as the financing of textbooks and school materials to promote the principles of equity in education and equal rights and opportunities. Foreign language learning is also funded, which is fundamental for our young people, with support and reinforcement actions for both students and teachers. A very important part of this agreement, more than EUR 230 million, is devoted to programmes promoting vocational training through the financing of new training cycles, quality improvement actions and dual vocational training actions. The programme of territorial cooperation on specific needs for educational support, which aims both to prevent pupils from dropping out of school and the return to the educational system of young people who have dropped out of school, also has a very special role in this agreement. In short, the autonomous communities are provided with funding for the improvement of education that our students will receive. Our group is convinced that these lines of action will increase educational performance, employability and promote the reduction of the early drop-out rate, a guarantee for the equal opportunities of our young people. Since the approval of this agreement is supported, as I mentioned in my speech, by the agreement of the Autonomous Communities at the Sectoral Conference on Education, Minister of Education, what is the Government's assessment of the EUR 385 million granted to the Autonomous Communities for programmes to improve the quality of education? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u122	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Alos, thank you for your question. You can imagine the answer: the Government is very satisfied with these territorial cooperation programmes. First, because they exemplify what should be the relationship between State administrations, between the General Administration of the State and the autonomous communities. As you have recalled, this agreement of the Council of Ministers, this distribution of funds, is the result of a previous agreement that took place at the Sectoral Conference on Education. Therefore, all the autonomous communities agreed, we agreed with them to proceed to the same. And secondly, because it deals with issues that matter to people, that matter to the educational community, that matter to families. You have spoken about the financing of textbooks and teaching materials. It was hard, in the crisis, to suppress this program. We did what we said we were going to do, that as soon as the economic situation allowed, we were going to reverse it. We did it last year, we did it this time. You have also referred to the learning of foreign languages and, very important, to the implementation of new ESO itineraries precisely to alleviate early educational abandonment. This is one of the battles that the Government is waging with the entire educational community: we are faced with 26.3% early abandonment, one in four did not go back to school after compulsory education. That is very complicated for the education system, among other things, because then those people, if they are unemployed, are very difficult to find another job. So here, with a significant investment of EUR 95 million, we want to make up for it. And that 26,3 % is currently 19,3 %, so seven points in five years. That's a good measure. And if we allude to others, such as the Timss report on primary mathematics or the PISA report, I think we have a good basis in our educational system to improve it through that social and political state pact for education. All these measures go in that direction of collaboration with the autonomous communities and of improving our education system and I am convinced that in these works of the state pact we will achieve a stable education system for the next few years and much better to form free and committed citizens with our country and with others of the many things that we have to do in our country that go precisely in the direction... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u124	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MRS CARLOS SAHUQUILLO GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT ARE THE GOVERNMENT'S BUDGETARY PREVICES IN RELATION TO INCREASING PUBLIC PENSIONS? [[File number 180/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u125	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. First of all, a question from Mr Luis Carlos Sahuquillo García of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u126	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, last Tuesday your Government vetoed our proposal for a law which, among other things, proposed to revalue all public pensions by 1.2%, so we would like to know what the government's intentions are, its budgetary forecasts in relation to the increase in public pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you know very well - because it has already been approved by this House and the Senate, in addition with the support of the Socialist Group, the budget plan for 2017 - the increase in expenditure on contributory pensions for 2017 is 3% in the budgets. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Sahuquillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u130	Three years ago, the Government of Mr. Rajoy, his Government, decided unilaterally and against all of them to adopt Law 23/2013 amending the Toledo Pact. Since then, our pensioners have seen how their pockets were getting pyrrhic pensions: only 2 euros of increase per month. You decided that the pension revaluation rate should be decoupled from the CPI; CPI, for example, this year is 0.7%, so with the increase of 0.25, pensioners will lose almost half a point of purchasing power. When I hear you say that the socialists not only freeze but lower pensions, the truth is that I get sick, although I am already convinced that even you yourselves believe your own lies. In public pensions, the difference between the Socialist Party and the People's Party is abysmal. I will give you some examples: the widow's pension with unshared family burdens in seven years of the socialist government increased by 83 per cent, in its five years of government, by only 6 per cent. Or the Social Security Reserve Fund - which has not been good enough for you, Minister - from which you have drawn EUR 1 billion from yesterday, more than EUR 20 billion in what is going on this year. When we arrived at the Government in 2004, this fund did not reach €12 billion. We left the government in 2011 and left it at 67,000. You have not put a single cent of euro in five years and left it at just EUR 15 billion. I'm going to talk to you about something that's the most common pension, my parents' pension, the one they get every month. When we arrived at the Government, the minimum retirement pension with dependent spouse was €484. Seven years later, in 2011, it stood at 742, an increase of 258 euros. In five years you have increased it by only EUR 43, 6%. [[Displays a graph]] Look - I know it's not daltonic - the red is the PSOE and the blue is yours. Minister, it's your own data I'm using. If there is economic recovery, please let the pensioners receive it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u131	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, red is the colour of the numbers in which you leave the pension system every time you govern, in 1996 and 2011, in deficit, Your Honor. [[Applauds.-Protests]] In 2011 we found the pensions frozen for the first time in our history. In the whole history of the Toledo Pact, pensions were never frozen, except with the last socialist government. The poverty risk rate among those over sixty-five in 2011, do you know what it was? Of 21 %. What has this government done? A commitment, no doubt, to pensioners in Spain. [[Rumors]] For us it has been the red line of the crisis, which always raise pensions in Spain and that is why we have changed the law and since 2012 pensions have always risen, even at the worst time of the crisis. They have risen every year, Your Honor, and we know that in a moderate way because we find a country on the verge of bankruptcy. But pensioners know better than anyone else that during this time, thanks to a low-inflation economic policy, they have earned more than EUR 1.4 billion in purchasing power with moderate increases in pensions, but always rising, Your Honor. Do you know what's changed? That this Government has done what it had to do, which is to change the system, our economy, to guarantee pensions today and tomorrow, from deficit and recession to growth and employment. [[Rumors]] Look, in 2011 for each new pension in the system three jobs are destroyed, today for every new pension in the system there are seven new jobs and we are on the road to recovery. We will listen to the Toledo Pact, because it is the great national commitment, to guarantee and continue to apply in Spain what politicians - at least those of the People's Party - want to do, which is to guarantee better pensions and higher - if we can - in the coming years. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u133	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT DO YOU THINK THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO DO TO COMBAT LABORAL EXPLOITATION? [[File number 180/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u134	She also asked the Minister for Employment and Social Security of Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia Díaz of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have never heard you make a single self-criticism, it seems that you are delighted to have met, but in our country there is labour exploitation. Are you going to do something to end her? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u136	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Heredia, this government complies with the law and enforces the law, and against labour exploitation, what needs to be done is labour and social security inspection, and compliance with the rules with greater resources and penalties since the rule of President Rajoy. This has made it possible - and I will give you some information - that from the last parliamentary term until today 403,000 jobs have been made available in Spain; 5,700 fictitious companies have been detected; 250,000 contracts have been converted which were poorly framed as temporary to indefinite, and most importantly, that significant savings have been made for the social security system, more than EUR 17 billion. That is the work of combating labour fraud. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u138	Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u139	Minister, there are thousands of young people who have had to go abroad to look for an opportunity that they do not find in our country; there are thousands of women who have lost their jobs and those who have lost their jobs charge much less than men for doing the same job; and there are a million long-term unemployed over forty-five years. You repeat permanently, as if it were a scratched record, that jobs are being created in our country, but there are almost 4 million unemployed and the last month was 25,000 more. And what is the job that is being created, what kind of job? I will tell you: young people who work twelve hours serving tables for 500 euros, hotel waitresses who charge 2.15 euros per room and sign contracts for four hours, where they work eight and charge 400 euros. Do you know this reality, Minister? One in three domestic workers does not have social protection; they are ILO data. Every week 3.3 million unpaid overtime is worked in our country, and more than half of fellows over the age of 30 work for free. Where's the inspection, Minister? This is not called creating employment; this has another name, it's called labour exploitation, and since you're a minister, labor exploitation has been triggered in Spain. And I do not say that, says a report from the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. Therefore, working in our country today is not a guarantee of coming to the end of the month. There are 6 million workers who earn less than the minimum wage. I ask you, Minister, could you live on less than 655 euros a month? Say it. That is why my parliamentary group presented last week an initiative here in Congress, which was approved to repeal its labour reform and also to draw up a new Workers' Statute. And yesterday a proposal for a law was adopted to guarantee the equal working conditions of subcontracted workers. In this context, I say to you that we must end the exploitation of work, that the workers of our country deserve decent employment and decent wages, that we must repeal their labour reform. And if you don't, we're gonna do it, and we're gonna demolish it piece by piece. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u140	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Heredia, the quality of employment begins with a job, and what the Socialist Party took away from the Spanish when it ruled is the right to work for 3.3 million people in the crisis. That's the reality, even if you don't like to hear it. Today Spain creates jobs and creates more and more quality jobs. Today, three out of four people working have an indefinite job, 75% more than at the beginning of the crisis. You know that, too? All temporary jobs of less than one month in Spain account for 0.89% of the total number of employees in Spain. Therefore, the situation in Spain is not easy, it is difficult and needs to be improved, but we are taking steps forward among the entire Spanish society in favour of opportunities. Heredia, you have to have the courage to be socialist and Andalusian and come here to talk about quality in employment. Look, Mr Heredia, if you, being a socialist and having a socialist government in Andalusia, don't listen to the street, don't talk to me about quality in employment. As an employer, what is the Andalusian Board like? Ask about the white tides at 30,000 or 45,000 that are manifested in the provinces of Andalusia for working conditions, because doctors work on contracts for hours, because they lower their salary by 15%, because they do not replenish public health professionals. [[Rumors]] Mr. Heredia, as manager, the training funds for employment... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u142	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONE IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN IN COMMUNITY WE CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DO YOU THINK PEOPLE HAVE TO WORK AFTER JULY? [[File number 180/000071]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u143	She also asked for the Minister of Employment and Social Security, Mrs Irene María Montero Gil, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you think that people in our country have to work after retirement?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u146	Madam Member, people in Spain, after retiring, can choose voluntarily if they want to continue working to continue contributing to society. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u148	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, the problem is that that is a political decision and we believe that to be here and to govern it is necessary to have a country project that also implies having a life project for our compatriots. Your model I already know what it is, that of the United States, where the ladies and gentlemen are putting food in the shopping bags in the supermarkets; the model in which people have to supplement their pension with a minijob because otherwise, it does not arrive at the end of the month, and also in which you give financial vultures the possibility of getting rich and doing business at the expense of workers' savings. Our model of life goes by simply guaranteeing the Spanish Constitution, which says that people in our country have to have an adequate pension and that, after killing themselves to work for life, they have to have the right to rest, leisure, free time and a decent and adequate pension. And it is that with their political management of the public pension system they have only deepened the problems; with the last two reforms, Zapatero's in 2011 and his in 2013, the problem of the financial sustainability of the pension system and also of the amount of the minimum pension has widened and, today, one in three pensioners does not reach 600 euros a month and in many cases supports whole families. I will propose some simple solutions. First, reconnect the pensions with the CPI so that people with their pension can fill out the purchase list because the pension has to serve to live and not to mallive or survive. Another proposal, for example, is to stop subsidising private pensions with public funds, to abolish bonuses in the business share or to eliminate the maximum ceiling for salary contributions of more than € 3,500 per month. That would save 14.5 billion euros a year. And, above all, I believe that you have to guarantee a decent employment policy, because when there is precarious employment, as is the case in our country, to garbage wages, garbage quotes. I believe, Madam Minister, that you tend to confuse politics with bureaucracy, and we here are being paid to guarantee rights, not to hold the people of our country to account, to violate human rights and to mistreat our compatriots. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u149	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, we already know that Podemos doesn't like older people, she doesn't like them voting; ask Mrs Bescansa. [[Rumors]] And now they don't like them working if they want to do it voluntarily because they want to continue to bring talent and experience to society. Mrs Montero, you have me a little puzzled because with the mess you have in the party you are not aware of the strategy you have in Congress, because if you look at the Journal of Sessions, you will be able to see that in March you registered a bill in which you invited the government to make the pension compatible with the work of the writers. [[Greetings.-Mrs. Montero Gil: My mother!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you, I agree. I agree not only for the writers, I agree for all the Spaniards. You know why? Firstly, because it is a recommendation of the Toledo Pact that people may have active ageing. Secondly, because this country, which is a great country, must have all the talent, with that of men and women, with that of the elderly and also with that of young people. Thirdly, because employment creates jobs. People who today account for 50% of employment and pension, maintain or create new jobs. Today, therefore, employment creates employment. Fourthly, for a reason of freedom. Spanish should choose voluntarily if they want to continue working after reaching retirement age. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u151	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u152	You know why? Because we believe in freedom. I'll give you an example. In its electoral programme, the word repeal or prohibit sixty times appears. Do you know how many times the word freedom appears? Twenty-seven. That is why I am not surprised, Mrs Montero, that you like Venezuela much more, where pensioners do not charge, than the United States, where they charge on time every month. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u153	Thank you very much. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u154	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent appeal from the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport on the government's policy to promote, promote and protect culture and cultural industries in Spain. For your defence, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u155	Thank you very much, President. Minister, I do not hide from you that this morning I would like much more to be asking only the Minister of Culture, because that would mean that culture has its own unique chair in the Council of Ministers, but I am sure that you are willing to double, in this case to triple, so that it is not noticed. A few weeks ago, I heard him say he thought he was loyal to the finance minister. Of course, that is their obligation, but it is also their obligation to be loyal to the sector they represent. In Mariano Rajoy's last government the cultural policy was done with a calculator in hand, cuts in different cultural programs had an average of 40% and there was one that reached 80%. Perhaps it was because in that last legislature there was no one who was willing to remind the Government that culture is the material with which a country's social fabric is made, and that is why it cannot be mistreated with such calmness. I ask you, Minister, to make a commitment to show your colleagues in government that cultural heritages have a powerful added value and that has nothing to do with the loyalty due to the Minister of Finance because our obligation, and now I am talking about yours and mine, is to explain to those who manage the accounts in our parties the importance of cultural policy. I do not feel disloyal to my fellow citizens' economic office, and I assure you that I give you a lot of can, when I insist that culture is much more than a commodity. The time has come to talk about cultural VAT, that cultural VAT whose existence your Government systematically denies; a few days ago it did so in this House. A few days ago I remembered that refusal by reading an article by Larra. Larra wrote that it is easier to deny things than to learn about them. Is there no cultural VAT? Now look, the cultural VAT is 21% with which a film entry is charged, 21% with which a theatre entry is charged, that 21% with which an entry is charged to see a ballet performance, an electronic music concert or an opera in the Real. I'd say there's a lot of things that don't exist. Two days ago I bought an entry to see Ricardo III in the Spanish theatre and my entry was charged at 21 %. The same percentage of VAT is paid for seeing a Shakespeare as for buying a luxury boat. I do not like that in this country the VAT of theatre and the VAT of cinema is the same as the VAT of a yacht. And I am sure, Minister, that you do not like it either; that is why I am also sure that it will help us constantly remember that commitment that your Government made in its investiture agreement with Citizens, one of whose 150 measures was the immediate lowering of VAT on live shows. Remember that they have given their word not only to Citizens but also to a very beaten sector and that it can no longer do so. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, I find it very difficult to understand the Government's commitment to leaving the cinema out of that fall in VAT. With the previous Executive of the People's Party I was very clear that there was not the slightest interest on the part of it in building bridges with the audiovisual sector, which represents like none of our country outside, which is a showcase of our way of life, of our culture, a window to the world. And apart from that, apart from the value it has as a promoter of culture outside our country, there is also the extraordinary value of audiovisual in creating jobs and wealth. Citizens registered three or four days ago in the Congress the plan Spain set up from Europe. It is a battery of measures to make our country a preferred destination for international filming. We have almost all the conditions to become a prominent place for producers to choose us to shoot movies, TV series, ads, animation or special effects. And I say almost because we have completely adverse taxation, a taxation that does not allow us to compete on equal terms with countries in our environment. In Spain, tax exemptions for international filming are 15% and there are countries where they are 30% or even 40%. So, it's not worth having the best landscape, climate, professional or environmental circumstances when we compete with money. Countries such as France, Italy, Hungary, and let's not say New Zealand or Canada, have been fully aware of the importance of encouraging this shooting business. And let me take Larra's hand again, saying, To stand while others walk is not to stand still, but to stand behind. And that is what can happen to us if we continue to ignore the potential of the audiovisual industry while other countries are betting on it. Minister, do we count on you to take that bet, to review a taxation that undermines the evolution of our industries, to also - and this is very important - guarantee the legal security of film investments and to end the disparity of criteria that sometimes exist between your department and the Ministry of Finance? We also need to talk about the fight against copyright abuse. In measures against digital piracy, Spain lags behind the vast majority of developed countries. And we must also talk about the contribution of culture to the Spanish economy. According to a study by the creative coalition, 87% of the digital content consumed in Spain is obtained illegally. Creators and cultural industries no longer receive EUR 1.669 million. Before yesterday, the publisher's association in Catalonia made public that this year the book sector has lost 200 million euros because of digital piracy. The expoliation of digital content is leading to the loss of 20,000 jobs per year. The public coffers no longer enter 547 million euros. I imagine what you or I could do in cultural matters with EUR 547 million. The problem is that the Intellectual Property Commission has no human or material means to combat this theft of content. Complaints take months to process and years to resolve. Now comes to mind the specific case of a website of movie downloads and video games that was denounced. Do you know how long it took to open a file? It took 1,154 days, three years. Now let's imagine the amount of illicit money that these pages have generated, the damage that they are doing to creators and industries, and also the amount of taxes that are being lost and that could have gone to the common box. The defence of intellectual property is a matter of justice, but it is also a matter of profitability, therefore, between the demands of our investment agreement with the People's Party, there are two measures that I think are quite silent; first, the strengthening of the second section of the Commission on Intellectual Property to increase its effectiveness in the administrative fight against illegal trafficking in content; second, the launch of a campaign in schools. Look where, here we will come very well that you are also Minister of Education, because piracy is also a matter of education. [[The lady]] Minister, are you able to ensure that the next General State Budgets will include an item to finance these two commitments? And in order not to scare those who make the accounts, I can tell you that, according to our calculations, putting these two measures into effect would cost less than EUR 1 million, and they are no longer collecting EUR 547 million. I think it's a good deal. And the authors, Minister, who protects them? About a year ago, there was talk of the opportunity to allow creators to reconcile the collection of their pensions with the exercise of their creative activity. It is necessary to allow men and women, who may be at their best intellectual moments after retirement, to continue to create. I am very grateful to the Minister of Labour who has just committed herself to this in this House, and we simply have to ask when this measure will take effect. I want to get back the questions I want you to answer. Can you confirm that the next General State Budgets will include the reduction of VAT for live shows? Is it possible to extend this VAT reduction to cinema? Are you willing to study more competitive taxation to attract international filming? Are they going to include in the State General Budgets an item aimed at strengthening the second and other sections to finance an educational campaign against piracy? Can retired writers continue to create without giving up their pension? Will other artists be able to do that too? Minister, you have to prevent culture from being treated as a commodity. It's not. And I'm not asking for privileges, I'm asking all of us for a little vision of the future, because almost everything that's going to transcend Spain tomorrow is happening on a writer's table, in a theater, in a conservatory, in a rehearsal room or in a recording studio. In a hundred years no one will possibly remember the name of any of us here. Do you think anyone who in a hundred years' time will know who was Minister of Finance in Spain in 2016? Probably not. However, it is likely that you will remember the name of a filmmaker, a musician or a writer. They'll forget our names, they'll forget the laws we've passed, but a lot of people will remember the title of a novel that's published this year, they'll be thrilled with a movie that's being shot, or they'll sing a song that maybe isn't even composed yet. That is what will remain of this era and from here we have an obligation to take care of it. This legislature has to be the legislature of the bet decided by the promotion of the cultural industries, and I ask you that this be your challenge, Minister, as is going to be that of my parliamentary group. Mariano José de Larra explained to Mr Sans-délai that in Spain any management was solved with that of coming back tomorrow. To the creators, to the industries we cannot continue to say that because they have waited too long. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rivera de la Cruz. Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words, on behalf of the Government, to condemn the Berlin bombing and to express solidarity with the German people. When it attacks our freedoms, it also attacks our way of life, it also attacks the deepest convictions of European society. Therefore, in this attack on people they will always have us in front of everyone, because it is also an attack on European civilization, on our way of life and on our way of understanding the world. It was a French novelist and academic, André Malraux, by a certain minister of culture, who held that culture is the sum of all forms of art, love and thought that over the centuries have allowed man to be less enslaved. I share this vision of Malraux, who conceives culture from a perspective that is not summatory but that integrates all of them into a higher cultural reality. For this reason, the Government has committed itself and commits itself from the outset to culture. It is true that in the past the economic difficulties required measures to sustain the system as a whole and this affected both the cultural budgets and the general budgets of the State in all its headings. For the Government, as for Spanish society, culture is not an adjective issue, but a substantive issue. It is not a minor or complementary matter; it is part of our way of life, as I have said before; of our nature as a society and of our idiosyncrasy as a nation. Spanish culture that is based on its richness and diversity, a defining element of the brand Spain and also a fundamental element for those more than seventy million visitors who come every year. We must be very proud of the culture in our country, our heritage and the activity of our creators. Ladies and gentlemen, having appeared in just one month before the relevant committees in Congress and in the Senate, I am pleased to speak at the plenary session of this House to convey to you the initiatives that the Government is going to launch during this parliamentary term, initiatives that require dialogue with all parliamentary groups. Don Antonio Machado said dialogue is listening first and asking later. This is the pretence of the Government and the Minister of Culture at the moment. The creation, communication and supply of cultural products are an incalculable heritage for a society. A society is richer, more prosperous and will have a better future the more it takes care of and fosters its creative heritage, its artists, its creators and its cultural industries. Whatever indicator we choose, it can be said that, although much remains to be done, the influence of the 2009 and subsequent economic crisis on the evolution of culture in our country has begun to be overcome. In the field of cultural employment, i.e. of companies engaged in cultural activities, the number of people employed has increased by almost 5,000, so that by 2015 this figure reached 515,000 people, which accounts for almost 3% of the total employment in Spain. In addition, from the perspective of consumption, spending by Spanish households on cultural goods and services has also increased in the 2015 financial year, which is the last of which we have firm data. It amounted to almost EUR 12 billion, 2.4% of total expenditure. And as for the 2016 figures, the progress we have is in the same direction. In short, starting from this recovery of investment and cultural consumption, in this legislature we want to develop a policy based on the lines we have concentrated on what we call the Culture 2020 Plan, which are the following: to promote access to culture for all citizens, to consolidate a legal framework for the integral protection of culture, to achieve a social partnership for culture and to extend Spanish culture beyond our borders. With regard to the first point, the promotion of citizens' access to culture, we are going to carry out a series of strategic measures that will affect museums, theatre, libraries and cinema, with the implementation of a plan to improve cultural infrastructures. An example of what I mean is the Museum of Fine Arts of Valencia, the future performances in the building of the Military Pharmacy of Madrid, the impulse of the Spanish Film Library, the Doré Cinema and the Centre for the Conservation and Restoration of Cinematography or the most recent inauguration of the Museum of Malaga. As a second package of measures within this first strategic line, we are going to undertake multiple measures that invite citizens to access culture in a more agile and attractive way. For example, scheduled exhibitions. We have recent examples of great success, such as Dalí's in Queen Sofia or El Bosco's in the Prado Museum. And I assure you that the one we are going to do at Queen Sofia on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of Guernica will also go in that line. Also, within this area of promoting access to culture, I would like to recall the recent adoption of the statute of the National Library, which will provide an impetus for improving the internal management of the library, its services and its cultural activity. With regard to the second point of the 2020 Plan, the consolidation of a legal framework for the comprehensive protection of culture, we want to provide it with a legal framework to guarantee its protection. This requires different measures, such as the fight against piracy, the protection of copyright, actions in the fiscal field, approval of the creator's statute, consolidation of a new model of film financing and development of the Intangible Heritage Act. Your honor has referred to the subject of piracy. The Government's proposal is zero tolerance for piracy. You know - I announced it in the competent committee of Congress - that, in coordination with the Ministry of Justice and with the cooperation of the Office of the Attorney-General of the State, we intend to create a prosecutor's office specialized in the fight against the violation of intellectual property rights. We will also strengthen the work of the second section of the Commission on Intellectual Property. It is true that many figures can be given about their performance. I would like to say that since the beginning of its activity in the first quarter of 2012 and up to now there have been about five hundred requests for the removal of illegal content on websites and 94% have been resolved. It is true that this is not a simple issue because those who hack use technological means to evade controls. We have opted for an option that respects rights, that goes administratively and that has to rely, of course, on the judiciary. That's why we're going to create a prosecutor's office. These things take longer than we would like, but I want to say that the fight is effective and, as I said, we will strengthen this second section of the Intellectual Property Commission. We will also give priority to the final transposition of the directive on the collective management of copyright and related rights and the granting of multi-territorial licences for the rights of musical works for use in line with the internal market. This is coupled with the reform of fair copying. The Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport is working with the sector to, after the Supreme Court ruling, equip us with a new system that responds in a balanced way to the needs of consumers and the different sectors involved. In the field of taxation, he mentioned in his intervention on VAT. There is no cultural VAT, you put it as you put it. Cultural VAT is a brand that has been used. There are different types of VAT applied to different cultural services. That's the reality of things. There is zero VAT in the case - total exemption, therefore - of tickets to state museums or to the shows of the national performing arts companies; there is VAT 4, super-reduced VAT, in books, magazines and other publications; there is VAT 10 in purchase of works of art and there is VAT 21 in other services to which you have referred, such as cinema tickets or other shows. The political philosophy of the government and the party that supports it is very simple, and is that the money where it is best is in the pocket of the Spaniards. We don't have a collecting desire, quite the opposite. Our political philosophy doesn't go that way. What happens is that we have to square the accounts, we have to pay the pensions and we have to pay the essential public services. In the end we have to do that at times like the past of crisis, recession and the fall of the harvest. We've got to get the bills married. They must be married by this Government and any Government of the nation. With this scenario we have committed ourselves to the Citizens Parliamentary Group - we have said so too - to reduce VAT in all those live shows to 10%. We will. We have committed ourselves to it and we are a party that fulfills it. We will also begin to work, together with the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, on the elaboration of the statute of creator and artist, with the aim of recognizing the specificity of cultural professionals. You have referred to the proposals of the Minister for Employment, who is also aware of them. In relation to the film sector, we are going to consolidate the new model of film financing throughout this legislature. The assessment we make in the Ministry of Culture on the reform of tax incentives for cinema is positive. We believe that we must maintain a specific incentive for the film and audiovisual sector as it exists in most of the countries in our environment, with an incentive also - you have mentioned it - for the attraction of international shoots. We are pleased that both the feature films and the short films have been approved, saving them from the closing order. Another important strategic line in this second section is the development of the intangible assets law. We will declare, in the current project, both Holy Week and Carnivals as transhumance or tape as a representative manifestation of intangible cultural heritage. Third strategic line of the Culture 2020 Plan. We have called it the social partnership for culture, with the aim of achieving a great involvement not only of the public sector, but also of the private sector in the world of culture. In this sense, within this search for a social alliance, the ministry is studying the creation of a sponsorship unit within the Secretariat of State of Culture according to budgetary availability. As with other States in our environment, such as France, we would have an administrative unit that would serve as effective advice. And this for what? To promote a new law of patronage that we understand is a need felt by all groups in this House. We will also extend culture beyond our borders - Spanish cultural action is your work, ladies and gentlemen - because we believe that this plan for the internationalization of Spanish culture is a very important element. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this 2020 plan that I have outlined seeks the cooperation and cooperation of all. I believe that this is a clear, precise and robust manifestation of the Government's commitment to culture and to the cultural industries. It is a commitment, as I say, open to all parliamentary groups to make cultural policy a state policy, a policy that continues to make culture an engine of progress, prosperity and enjoyment of Spanish society and for Spanish society. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. Once again, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u159	Thank you very much, President. Minister, I am glad that you have begun your reply by quoting the great Malraux, who said something very nice, said that culture was the heritage of all the nobility of the world. Malraux was a very great minister of culture, who was then very successful by Jack Lang, who inaugurated what the French adopted excellently, which is the cultural exception, to constantly remind those who handle money that culture is not a thing, that culture is not a commodity and that it has to have exceptional treatment. I hope that the same will happen to my Government. Let me insist on the matter, on that VAT that does not exist; it must be the parents. The clear cultural VAT that exists, but let's leave it out; let's talk about the VAT that pays for the cultural actions that people most support. There are more people going to the theater or to the movies than people going to buy a picture in New York, that's the reality. And that VAT, which we are not going to call cultural but entertainment VAT, is 21%, is the second highest in Europe after the rise imposed on it by the People's Party. Let me read you here a small example of other VAT: Portugal, a country that has experienced a very severe economic crisis, 13%: Italy, 10%; Holland, 6%; Germany, 7%; Greece, 6%; Romania, 5%; France, 5.5%; the homeland of Jack Lang and the homeland of Malraux. You say that there is no money, that the accounts have to be squared. Obviously, if I do not hide the crisis that has happened in this country, but there has been money for other things; there still is. There's been $5 billion to rescue the radials. [[Applauds]] There must be 50 million to lower the VAT on cinema - and I thank you for acknowledging that these commitments exist with us - but I would also ask you to specify when they will be fulfilled. Because you're here because there was an investment agreement, an investment agreement that you signed with us and that we're going to be constantly reminding you that you have to comply. It is not enough to say that it will be done, it is necessary to do so immediately. You also told me that you were reasonably satisfied with the anti-piracy activity. Since the implementation of the Intellectual Property Act, six websites have been closed. It is true that they had a lot of content that redirected to a lot more pages, but there are more than five hundred pages of very intense activity that are out of control. When it comes to six or eight pages we're talking about emptying a pool with a glass, and that can't be. You are talking about the need to guarantee; of course, ours is a highly-guaranteed policy, it is exactly the same because you have copied it. Our Intellectual Property Law is copied in Italy and Portugal, but in these two countries it is taking six and nine days to do the same thing we do in three hundred or four hundred. Something we're doing wrong. I ask you to bear in mind our commitments, but not just to keep them in mind, but to set a moment of fulfilment. I repeat, when will the VAT on live shows be lowered? What about the movies you can't get into that package? When will the compatibility of the payment of pensions with the exercise of professional activity for writers be ensured? It's not about being told that yes, that everything is fine. It's about a moment to do it. Because it has been wasted a long time and because there is still a legislature in which you will have to comply with the agreement and we will remind you of what is pending. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rivera de la Cruz. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have recalled the agreements we have signed with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, so you do not have to remind me of them, I know them very well. The agreements when they are signed by two parties or two groups are of the two, they are not of the one, they are of the two. Therefore, we have an interest in fulfilling them, Your Honor, and we will do so, at that point and in all those we have subscribed to. Don't give him the slightest doubt. I understand that many times the voice that cries out in the desert is a hard job, but I think that when we talk about cultural VAT we should not mention it as such because I think it is not. If we do pedagogy it would also be good because we teach people the differences between one thing and another. You have focused on the VAT of shows, but if I now answer it by referring to the VAT of magazines or books, which represent 40% of the cultural industry, we would be in a dialogue of the deaf. I don't think that's any use. What we have to do is look for measures that go in a positive direction and that, in the end, help us, as we said before and in that we agree, because culture serves to improve people, serves to enjoy the activity of creators and, in the end, to enjoy life. I can assure you - and I repeat this - that there is not a collection effort on the part of the Government, there is not, but we have to marry the accounts. In the end, you ask me that and I will defend what we have just proclaimed in this House, but the rest of your group colleagues and other political groups will also defend your sectors or what they think is appropriate, of course. [[The lady]] If the Secretary of State for Cooperation with Ibero-America came up here, I would say that development cooperation is the most important thing. I am sure that in this House there are many people - including myself - who agree with this, it is very important. Now, in the end, how do you get that? It's not easy. That is the work that the Government has to do with all the members of this House, no doubt, because in the end it will be you who will vote for the General Budgets of the State. Therefore, Your Honor, what has been initiated by the Vice-President and the Minister of Finance here? A dialogue with all the political groups to establish the priorities, what can we do in this first year of the four that the legislature has, taking into account, moreover, the commitments we have with the European Union. These commitments have been accepted by all of you by approving the expenditure ceiling and deficit targets. In short, it is not a simple task, Your Honor, but it is a work that is worth it and that I believe we can move forward in the coming months. We are involved in that task. Be assured that this Minister of Culture, who is also dedicated to other things, will have a huge interest in those commitments that we have signed with you - but that you also share, I am sure, the rest of the groups in the House - to come to a good place. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u162	Thank you very much. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE ON THE APPLICATION OF THE GASTO RULE TO LOCAL ENTITIES. [[File number 172/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u163	We are now discussing the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Minister for Finance and Public Service on the application of the expenditure rule to local authorities. Mr Pradas Torres has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u164	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. There is a widespread assertion among all political groups that before reaching certain scales of politics one must go through local politics, with all due respect, logically, to comrades who have not gone through being mayors or councillors. Indeed, I believe that being mayor or councillor brings you closer to citizenship, to the real problems of people, of citizens, something very useful in politics. And, with all due respect, Mr. Montoro, I think you see in the league that you have not been either mayor or councillor, for the trajectory that I at least know. Minister, I do not want to think that this is bad faith, but perhaps it is because I am now very influenced by the novel I am reading from my friend Pepe Juan Díaz Trillo of Cándido, but only since the ignorance of the reality of the municipalities can we act as this People's Party government has done throughout all these years in this country. Because, moreover, his coming along has been blunt in his attacks on the municipalities throughout his political career. I was mayor there in 2002 when you eliminated the economic activity tax, one of the few revenues available to the municipalities along with other municipal taxes. I still remember how he was getting off the chest at the expense of the deterioration of the public coffers, which at that time was estimated at 1.2 billion euros for the municipalities, which were compensated for a year or two, I think I remember, although shortly afterwards he stopped compensating the local corporations. That was one of the legacies you left at Mr. Aznar's time. I assure you that these resources weighed as a slab in the future of local haciendas in later years, as they weigh, Mr Montoro, as much as you presume of it, the consequences of the Supplier Plan. In order to save fundamentally large municipalities, such as Madrid or Valencia, which took the bulk of the cake, they forced all the municipalities of Spain to a debt to the bank, paying interest at 6% - I repeat, at 6% - while the bank was buying the money from the European Central Bank at 1%. And when we asked him in this legislature and in the past mini-legislature to remove and relax the depreciation, because the deadline for the repayments had already ended, and the monthly depreciation amounts that the municipalities have to make have quadrupled, or at least tripled, they have not even been able to listen to the mayors and councillors, who are currently seeing themselves with great difficulty in paying the payroll to their officials. With a functioning Government they had the boldness to sow more concern, if possible, with the letter sent by his ministry to the local authorities, in which he announced the closure of their activities if they continued with the deficit as at 31 December of that year, using purely economic criteria in essential services such as the provision of water, solid waste, transport or waste treatment. But, without a doubt, what has done the most harm to municipalism is the shadow they extended in the prolegomens of their local reform that the municipalities were little less than those guilty of the crisis in this country. At a time when citizens were having a very bad time, punished for unemployment and cuts, you took out the salaries of mayors and councillors, even though you knew that the majority of mayors and councillors are working and providing a service to the neighbors for minimal amounts, in most cases, and in many cases you don't even have any compensation. They extended the shadow that the municipalities were responsible for the deficit, when the municipal deficit was a minimum part of the state deficit, and essentially corresponded to the large cities, precisely governed by the People's Party at the time. They thus provided the ground to limit local autonomy, to de facto intervene in municipal accounts, to eliminate State contributions to works and services plans developed by provincial parliaments, to prohibit municipalities with sound accounts from applying their resources to investments that generated jobs for their neighbours. They have not only limited by their spending rule that municipalities can apply their surplus to employment generation, but have prevented many members of parliament from implementing investment plans, with their own surpluses, to reactivate the local economy with absurd interpretations of what are sustainable and what are not. I believe that the mayors, all the mayors, those of the Socialist Party, those of the United Left, those of Podemos, even those of the People's Party, know very well what I am talking about. And I ask you, Minister: Is it so difficult to listen to the mayors before adopting a measure that directly affects their municipalities? Do you find it difficult to listen to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces before adopting such a measure that will limit municipal autonomy in the way the local reform has done? I think you should always listen to the city halls. And now we are at a time - you said it this morning - in which we are living a completely different legislature, a new stage that can be agreed and rectified, and it is not because you have become more sensitive - so candid I am not, Pepe Juan - is that you are weaker. Well, then make that weakness virtue and try by all means to return to the municipalities the autonomy that they have taken away from them at this time. In 2012, the Government introduced an expenditure rule that became one of the mandatory rules, which is the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act, and therefore the expenditure rule emerges as a countercyclical fiscal discipline instrument that seeks to ensure the sustainability of public accounts so that the medium-term increase in government expenditure is limited with the ability to finance it with stable and sustained revenues over time. Unlike the Spanish rule, the European expenditure rule is not subject to rigid rules of automatic application, but is integrated into an overall analysis of the fiscal developments of each Member State. In the case of our country, one of the problems of the expenditure rule is that in the year in which it began to apply, that is, in 2013, the Spanish economy had just gone through a deep crisis, and the expenditure rule remains under the same parameters of those moments and the austerity criteria no longer correspond to the reality of Europe or our country. It has recently been agreed that the autonomous communities will have more resources to finance the welfare state, with an additional €4 billion and a deficit target of 0.6 %. Good news. This is good news that we have supported. The State has been authorised to reach a deficit of 1,1 %, as I understand it. Good news, too. However, there is no room for the deficit of local corporations, in the last five years you have given not a single breath to the municipalities. The whole of the municipalities of Spain has maintained a budgetary surplus since 2012 and since that same year the municipal debt of the municipalities has fallen steadily being the only sector of the public administration where it has lowered the level of indebtedness. The debt of local corporations has been reduced by 16.19% between 2012 and 2015. Bank deposits have grown, according to the data I have, by 7 billion euros at this time, since 2011. Minister, it's idle money. It is idle money in the municipal coffers or it has to be used as an advance to pay the bank amounts that are already agreed in their repayment periods, advances to a bank to which we are also paying all the Spaniards 40 billion euros, so that every day greater profits are shared. Over the years, Mr Montoro, this situation has brought with it a paradox and it is that the municipalities are the only administration with surplus, are healthy and meet their goal, but they cannot invest that savings, savings that could be generating wealth and employment. Minister, within three years of the unilateral approval of the local counter-reform by the People's Parliamentary Group. The Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Government - they called it - has turned out to be a disaster for municipalism. The municipalities and provincial parliaments in Spain in the 21st century certainly need reform, and in that work we will be committed by the socialists. And we are going to be committed to abrogating the perverse consequences of that local reform, to adopting a local law that clearly determines what powers the municipalities must provide. We will also work and promote, from the consensus, a law on local finances that provides funding precisely those powers that we decide here among all. In this context and as a first step, we propose to you here today, Mr Montoro, a review of the design and application of the expenditure rule, following international best practices and taking into account criteria for the sustainability of public accounts throughout the cycle. The position of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, reiterated on numerous occasions, is that the surplus should be contemplated within the municipal autonomy, both for expenditure and for investments. In this regard, Mr Montoro, and in line with your commitment to the mayors within the National Commission of Local Administration, we ask you to commit yourself here in parliamentary office and in the course of this inquiry to allow local entities to reinvest their surplus in 2017 through a legal authorization for this reinvestment and to do so through the extension of the State General Budgets. We are talking about €4.5 billion that can be placed on charges without endangering the health of public accounts. You, Minister, extend this authorization not only to investments that are economically sustainable, but also socially sustainable. Allow this surplus to also be applied to employment programmes that serve to alleviate the situation of so many Spanish households. You always say - and with this I end - that the priority is to generate employment. Well, Mr Montoro, when the workers are out of work and they are running out of their benefits - almost 50% of the workers in Spain are already in that situation - they do not come here or go to La Moncloa, they are looking for their mayor or mayor. And your mayor can't tell you that you have a surplus of a million euros in the bank that you can't apply because you have to advance it to pay the bank. That bank to which they are paying, despite being unemployed and unemployed, the 40 billion that the State has lent it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u165	Mr. Pradas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u166	I'm done, President. Today we give you an opportunity to send a message of hope to the local world, but above all a message of hope to the men and women who are having a bad time and need those investments to find a job. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u167	Thank you very much. I give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pradas, first of all I would like to thank you for the tone of your speech, and the way in which you are being questioned is also very contentious. In this sense, I will try to respond to your whole approach, including also, if you wish, the personal journey itself and the commitment of the minister who speaks to you with the world of municipalism. Indeed, as you say, the political speeches and measures that we have adopted in the last few years in the House make sense. It's true that in my long political career I haven't had a chance to be a councillor, nor to be a mayor, it's true. But that does not undermine my assessment, I think I have found and demonstrated it in all approaches, as in the X Legislature, where under my responsibility we have convened the National Commission of Local Administration as never before in the history of our democracy. That's right. Therefore, the reproach that municipalism has not occupied a relevant political situation in the last five years I believe is unfair, frankly unfair and improper because there has never been such an act. A Fiscal and Financial Policy Council has not been convened without the convening of the National Commission for Local Administration in parallel. That had never happened in democracy, that is so. It had never happened to our previous governments, to which I too was a member, nor to the socialist governments. Therefore, that has happened now, and that is how it should happen. As for the description that his lordship has made of what happened in 2012, the story can be told in many ways, but I do not think it is fair that he reproaches the 2012 government and myself as responsible at the time for the matter of the Treasury and Public Administration. It's not fair. I will remind you that in 2012 there were thousands of local entities that could not pay their payroll. Don't we remember? Didn't we remember when I had to answer a control question from the blue bank saying: I'm worried about paying the payroll of thousands of administrations? In Spain there are 8,125 municipalities, there are provincial deputies corresponding to each province; there are many other forms of local entities, and the big question in 2012 was how many thousands of municipalities were going to close in Spain. That was the question, but was that raised by the Government? Can you identify a single intervention of that year where we were actually proposing from the Government of Spain to close municipalities? There were others who proposed it, both inside and outside Spain. Do we not remember 2012, when in a brotherly and very close country, a member of the European Union, as Italy its government proclaimed that it would close more than 4,000 municipalities? When did we as a government say to close some town hall? We haven't closed any city halls. Is that right or not? Have you broken any city halls in Spain? No, no, That is why you now claim the use of the surplus, but five years ago the big question was how many municipalities, how many councillors had to be suppressed. Don't you remember that this was the subject of debate in 2012? We have not suppressed councillors, because councillors are really the representatives of democracy in a developed and modern country. Of course, we value the political role of the councillors. Has anyone made any laws in this House to reduce the number of councillors, political representatives directly elected by citizens? No one. Nobody has done this, and we have managed, by applying laws such as the Budget Stability Act, that the problem that the Socialist Group legitimately raises today is the use of the surplus of the municipalities. It's not a bad problem. As the ultimate manager of the public finances that make up the Spanish administrations, I prefer to have this problem that I had in 2012. I assure you that I find this issue far more affordable than we had in 2012, as I had occasion to express in the last National Commission of Local Administration with more or less fortune, because one always chooses rhetorical figures, metaphors sometimes, to refer to that situation. Indeed, I guarantee you that I am much better in this situation than I am most responsible, which, by the way, is the role that the Constitution confers on the Government of Spain, the role of coordinating the policies of all the public administrations of Spain. That's what we've got ahead of us now. And how have we come to this situation? Also for the validity of a law, the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. This law reproduces in the year 2012 in Spain the European governance that we were implementing. So we were living the euro crisis, the euro public debt crisis, and in Spain when we promoted the Supplier Plan, what are we doing? We are paying the self-employed, the small businesses, the large companies that are facilitating garbage collection, that are facilitating public lighting, that are facilitating social protection services, that is what we are doing with suppliers! Or aren't we doing that with suppliers? How many billions of euros do we apply to that operation? An operation that at that time only worked was the mark of the state, because those municipalities had closed the banks, they could not access the banks to pay their suppliers, we were faced with a real collapse of the public administration, and that is what we solved with that operation, but it is not the operation of four municipalities as you have mentioned, no, no, Mr Pradas. You know that really in Andalusia this financial operation was used a lot, as in other parts of Spain I mean, but in Andalusia there were really a lot of municipalities of all kinds, small, large, medium, of all kinds, and today they are working and they are open. Therefore, the Government's expression and willingness to cooperate and to cooperate in order to continue to do so go ahead. From there, Mr Pradas, I the political speeches are not that valuable, they are obviously practiced in this House, but they also require weighting, because if we are not to reinvent the world every time we start a legislature, and what we have to do is to resume where we have left the progress that we have been able to achieve among all. In that sense, the Government's willingness to agree, as I have repeated again this morning, is not just to engage in dialogue, it is to agree. Yesterday the so-called spending ceiling received in the Spanish Senate the support of 85% of the vote, this had never happened. That same procedure also received the support of this House - we went to the Senate to present it as a government - and obtained 251 votes. Never in democracy has this vote been so overwhelmingly favourable that we are facilitating the preparation and preparation of a State budget where all these approaches can be taken. The Government, as we had the opportunity to explain in the last National Commission of Local Administration formally, is promoting the creation of a working group within the CNAL, with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, to revise this rule of expenditure, but it is not only for the municipalities, but for all public administrations; to revise as that rule of expenditure is reviewed, and it has already begun in the European bodies. The Ecofin of 5 December was precisely to address this issue, which is therefore subject to review at European level, and therefore the Government's commitment is that, as we move forward and are able to cooperate, because we are part of those European institutions, in the revision of the expenditure rule, that we do so throughout 2017. I just have to insist that the reduction of the deficit of the total of the public administrations for the year 2017 is very demanding, as I recalled, and therefore it is not a question of reproducing in Spain what were consequences of plans of the past, like the known PlanE, remember? That solved nothing, that brought nothing but more deficit and more debt. We are now dealing with completely different situations in the future. I express to you our full cooperation, and I hope that as a result of this inquiry the Socialist Group will present a motion in which the Government, and obviously the People's Parliamentary Group, we will be able to reach agreement in these approaches because, obviously, as you rightly put it, it is a demand of many public administrations today in Spain, and as we reach the total targets of correcting our public deficit for 2018 we will be in a better position to address it. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Pradas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the perception of what has happened to municipalism assures you that it is not personal. There are more than 3,000 mayors who signed a conflict in defence of local autonomy against the reform law, and the appeal was supported by many governments and autonomous parliaments. There have already been two sentences that have said that some things have been done wrong and some articles have been annulled, and more will come. So far it has been in the case of the communities of Andalusia and Extremadura specifically, but I am convinced that more cancellations will come. We are going to work to reverse that law, and I guarantee it because we believe it is a law, like the Wert Law or the Bite Law, which have been made without consensus, and therefore require repealing all that is negative in this case for the municipalities. I wanted to get out of here at least by asking him for three very concrete commitments, so that we wouldn't get out of the way. There are many ways to help municipalities when they are in a limit situation like the one you describe, but that situation has not disappeared. Go to the City Hall of Los Palacios, for example, and you will see that the problem has not disappeared with the Supplier Plan. Why? Because the treasury problem is still the same, they owe six months of payroll and now they won't be able to pay the extra Christmas even the current to go up to date. Like that city hall there are many municipalities in Spain, many. There are other formulas that are using provincial collection agencies, for example, which are long-paid advances without interest, as has also been done here with the autonomous communities in the past. Why do municipalities have to be paying or giving the bank 5 % interest if the bank is getting it at 1 %? It doesn't make sense. The first concrete request I make to you is to study the Supplier Plan to make a debt write-off, especially to municipalities that are having a very bad time, and to extend the repayment time because they are drowned. The other day I was in Osuna and they're paying 400,000 euros a month. There's no way a city council average of 12,000 or 14,000 inhabitants pays 400,000 euros a month, I assure you there's no way. They will be able to endure it for two months, but in the third month they will find themselves in the same problem. They have to extend that repayment period and study a withdrawal for the municipalities that are in that situation. The second undertaking I ask you, and I take advantage of these Christmas dates, is that you send a message to the public workers working in public enterprises and in public bodies dependent on the municipalities and the deputies telling them that they will not lose their jobs, regardless of the surplus or deficit that the companies in which they are working have, and that each case is studied to see whether or not a certain service can be continued with surplus or in this case with deficit, because there are public services that require a deficit as well. That's right, it's been like this all my life, and it's absurd to try to close down and put those jobs at risk. Thirdly - you have given me something - that this surplus can be applied to sustainable investments, but I would like it to be applied also to employment plans that generate jobs in the municipalities. I'm going to give you an example and I'm done with this. The Seville City Council has launched a programme called Supera with 183 million euros to cover the surplus of the years 2014 and 2015, and 2,814 jobs have been created with these 183 million euros. With 4.5 billion euros - I am of letters, but the rule of three I learned - placed in charge could generate more than 70,000 jobs in Spain. Do not waste that opportunity because we are at a time when employment is the most serious problem in this country. So, give that Christmas gift with that message that you can use the surplus application, both in investments - in this case - and also in employment programs for all. Thank you very much and Merry Christmas to all of you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u171	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pradas, first of all, there is indeed a ruling by the Constitutional Court in relation to a law that this House passed in its day, but the ruling very much validates the content of the law, and above all the spirit of that law, which was to delimit powers for each administration to exercise its true competence, and from there, whatever the Constitutional Court says, was missing more. Let us review the contents of that law, but let us not disqualify it because it should not be so. Secondly, that law established, in relation to certain companies and agencies, the obligation not to generate deficits, but it is the responsibility of the local government itself and the validity of that law; therefore, there is no desire to close companies that are providing services, it is the responsibility of that municipality to make the provision of reserve and resources. That is what the law establishes, the law is in force and we can do nothing but apply it. If you understand that it must be modified in some way, of course we are open to studying the consequences which, as I say, the importance of studying them is much less than five years ago. We are talking about very specific and very specific problems, and it is therefore not a question of raising them in general terms. Then you said - rightly so, and I also identified you yesterday in the Senate - that there are still about two hundred municipalities that have a lot of problems in Spain -200 out of 8,125; let's move forward, Mr.Pradas - and from there those municipalities can accommodate the fund, which is there. It is because of political problems, because of problems of governance of these municipalities so often, as it is ruling in minority, the majority of the opposition is preventing that municipality from entering the fund of order. This is a situation that is raised and that we have to address together. I believe that it is the responsibility of the political groups present in the governance of these municipalities, because the mechanism is empowered by the ministry, is in force, and so let us make practical use of it. From there what we are doing with the autonomous communities of Spain is a debt restructuring; that is what we are doing, restructuring their debt and also expressing the Government's will to follow what it is already doing - it is that we are already doing it with those existing mechanisms -. We therefore now have a problem in certain municipalities that we are dealing with from the Government, from the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, and I am talking to you about the current deadlines. I also insist that the root of these financial problems that are emerging is a political root, and I want to call on the responsibility of all political groups - of all, I insist, of all - so that it is not understood that the opposition work is really blocking or paralysing a town hall. In this sense I remind you that the rule of expenditure is not that it prevents expenditure, but that it limits usable resources for next year, to what limit? At 2.1% growth. So what we are asking is for more than 2.1% to be spent; that limit is already growing as a result of the expenditure rule. In any case, I insist, because I have already told you before, that the will is that, through the political negotiation that we are already putting on the table, during the next financial year we will address this revision. I hope that the Socialist Group, I insist, will put forward a motion in which we can all agree - it would be a good thing - and let us continue to build that stability framework which is so important for a politically and administratively decentralized country such as Spain, where we really have to preserve what the political wealth of that group of municipalities means, and especially the role that councillors and mayors play in the democratic representation of our country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u173	Thank you very much. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, on child poverty. [[File number 172/000016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u174	Next, we turn to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on child poverty. Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u175	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I am speaking on behalf of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, practically without a voice, to ask you about an issue that is certainly not going to be covered in our country, but which compromises the present and the future of it all. Your party, Mrs Montserrat, has turned our country into a leading country and we are at the top of the table, the problem is that we are at the top of the table on a question that we personally are ashamed of. Spain is the second European Union country in child poverty; we are only behind Romania. I don't know if this is what you consider to mark Spain, because it certainly isn't for us. [[Show a chart]] In the United States We believe that a democratic country cannot assume nearly 2.5 million children below the poverty line, almost one in three. If we were the boys and girls of this country, this would mean that the whole Socialist Party bench and the whole Citizens bench would be at risk of poverty or exclusion. One of the things we were most concerned about on the team, when I was preparing this inquiry, was to deny it, to deny that child poverty is really a problem in our country. Why were we worried he'd deny it? Because some before you've already done it. When Yolanda Díaz, here present, asked Mr. Feijóo about malnutrition in Galicia, he denied it. Also Mr Montoro - who is now gone - said that the reports of Caritas do not conform to reality and that they mix concepts. I imagine that now that you have finally had to prepare that mandatory report for the Committee on the Rights of the Child will not deny me that child poverty in our country is a problem, that poverty has a child face in our country, and that the measures that have been put in place so far have had virtually no effect. I read the report that his Government is going to submit to the committee: the global financial crisis that began in 2008 caused one of the biggest economic and labour crises in recent history in our country, with families suffering intensely its negative effects, especially those with children, increasing child poverty rates. The recession has not had a uniform impact on the population, and families with dependent children, especially the single-maritime and numerous, have been particularly affected. Moreover, one of the key features of child poverty in our country is that the gap between children's homes and children's homes is widening every day, widening rapidly, and also the gap between adults and children. Mrs Báñez actually said earlier that the elderly have been a red line for you. It is true that older people have been more protected by pensions, but what about under eighteen? For this happens, and that is that child poverty increases at all speed. [[Show a chart]] One of the things that worries me most always in this House is that we are talking about very serious data, and yet in my opinion it is difficult for us to put those people who suffer every day on their faces. What is it like to be a poor child in the 21st century in our country? Well, it's things like this: it's things like your 52-year-old mom gets 300 euros a month, which is her ex-husband's pension, and that's what she has to pay for the light, the water, the school, and everything else. It's just that your mom gets older and they don't take her anywhere anymore and she has to put snacks on her ass. It's sleeping with your father, your mother, your sister in the same room, because your house is too small. It's cold, very cold in winter, now that Christmas holidays come, and very hot in summer. It's playing football, but only, because it doesn't give you to pay the fee of any team, which costs 180 euros a month. It's also starting school without all the books and be ashamed because your books are always used or painted. It's just that your mother has to choose between taking you to the dentist or buying those books. It's going to class without breakfast and eating a sandwich for the first time at 11:15. Or it's the fear that they'll take you out, as Daniel said in that recent Enclave and PAH report about childhood and evictions, that they'll be afraid to stay in the dark and forget you, that they'll sleep on the street in a bank. Being a child at risk of poverty in our country is a violation of your rights: your right to education, to health, to decent housing, to play or all of these at once. I would like you to ask your party partner, María del Carmen Dueñas, deputy for Melilla, about the boys and girls who live on the streets of Melilla, who sniff glue and suffer all kinds of violence. Or come any day that comes to Madrid to the park of Santa Eugenia, where there are also children protected by the Community of Madrid who sleep on the street. Without going any further, in Navarre, where I come from, Red Cross has had to pick up toys again at Christmas, when it was many years since it did. Those are the children of our country, who are suffering the consequences of their policies and all of them owe us. If we want to defend the rights of children in our country, we have to guarantee the rights of all children, because a right is only a right if it applies to all children. [[Applauds]] At present, none of the measures that have been put in place have proved to be effective in reducing the rate of child poverty. Moreover, child poverty only grows and grows in our country; it reaches 35.4% in less than sixteen years, according to INE data. In 2014 it increased by 3.5% and has been up for three years. And I know you're going to talk to me about employment policy. It will tell me that the best policy to combat child poverty is an employment policy. I'm gonna ask you not to say it, and I'm gonna tell you why. I ask you not to say this because for 25 years, child poverty in our country has been around 20%. It has been shown even in those times that you call child poverty a structural problem, and that it needs specific policies to fight child poverty. The boys and girls in our country have waited too long and I think it is time for us to take this situation seriously. They have paid too high a price and I think they should never pay it again. Moreover in these years we have seen how getting a job does not guarantee getting out of poverty, because its labor reform has also made us leaders in something else, and it is precisely in precariousness. I will also ask you not to insist once again on the National Plan of Action for Social Inclusion, the Pnain, or on the legislative reforms that have made the protection system. I do not want him to talk about them because civil society is quite tired of the fact that the People's Party is medalling itself with legislative reforms, when all these legislations, which could be very well, without adequate funding, are just a wet paper. Many people at home will be interested to know if in 2017 we will continue to be at the tail of the European Union in investment in children. As you know, the United Nations has already drawn our attention. They have drawn attention to their government spending only 1.3% of GDP when the EU average is around 2.4%. What is going to be the percentage of GDP that plans to increase for investment in children in 2017? I'm asking you to say a figure, get a little wet. Will your Government take into account the European recommendation to invest in children, which is 2013? Is the Government going to commit to a state pact for investment in children? This is something that you know has been suing for several years now Unicef and the Children's Platform, and they have already signed more than 150,000 people in our country, in addition to different entities. Do you think that EUR 48 million for a fund to combat child poverty is enough to deal with the social emergency situation? Do you believe that opportunistic news such as yesterday's, which are only generalities without any concreteness and quite timely for today's inquiry, will end child poverty? How will this mandatory report on children be carried out, which must be accompanied by the State's General Budgets? I'll tell you what I feel. My feeling is that once again the boys and girls in our country will be in line with our country's budgetary priorities. I think when you have to choose between rescuing highways or rescuing childhood you're going to choose the highways again. This is something I think we can't tolerate any longer. Our parliamentary group has had to come to Congress to talk about energy poverty, and believe me, despite the agreement they announced yesterday, it is hard for me to believe that those who intend to end up on boards of directors of the big electrics at the end of their term will fight energy poverty effectively. [[Applauds]] As they always say that we do not usually make proposals, that we are not concrete, I have brought very concrete proposals for them to see that we do know how to govern effectively. I propose that we do not do partisan politics on this issue, because the efforts of the decent people in our country who have tried to solve the situation of their neighbours and neighbours who were having a bad time have been truly commendable, and I think we must recognize it from here. Hundreds of food banks and other solidarity initiatives have been created, such as the one that is being held today in this House of Food Collection. But I think it's time to move from solidarity to law. People should not fulfill an obligation that is of the State, and on a day like today we would not have to bring cars to a place where we could legislate so that no one would go hungry in our country. The guarantee of rights goes by adopting measures that respect the dignity of our people, and that do not force them to queue in front of social services or in front of a parish. The most effective measure to end child poverty is child support. Does the Government plan to increase the child benefit? If so, how much and on what terms exactly? If you do not intend to do so, what is the reason why you do not want to apply the measure that has been shown to be most effective? What is your alternative measure and what studies support the impact of that measure, such as those I will explain to you? What, in our opinion, are the 25 euros per month that the State currently gives to those families in the most vulnerable situation? I would like to ask you what you would buy your sons and daughters with 25 euros a month. Half a pair of glasses? Half a book? I think practically none of those things. And what about that one and a half million children who do not meet the requirements, according to their criteria, but who are at risk of poverty or exclusion and who do not charge anything? What can you buy with anything? Well, I guess nothing. I'm not going to set Finland's example because we don't look much like Finland. We'd like that. I will give you the example of Ireland. It will not deny me that Ireland is a country that has also suffered a serious economic crisis as a result of the austerity policies of the European Union, and yet has been able to greatly reduce the risk of poverty of its children through public policies. In particular, it has reduced poverty by 28 percentage points, from 45 to 17 per cent. Spain is currently only reducing poverty from 41 per cent to 30 per cent. Ireland has universal child support of EUR 140 per month per child up to the age of 16. This aid is extended until the age of eighteen if they continue to study, which also helps reduce early school failure. I don't ask so much. I ask you to extend the aid to EUR 100 per month. This measure would only cost €400 million in 2017, much less than the increase already committed for María Dolores de Cospedal in the Ministry of Defense. It would also involve a total of 2,650 million in these four years, which is less than what the Defence budget increased in just one year, between 2014 and 2015. If you are not willing to implement the most effective measure, I think people here and myself would like to know why. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u176	On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Belarus, I am just as concerned about the situation of children in our country as you are. [[The lady]] Our childhood is the present and the future, because they are the best we have to protect, the most precious good we have to protect, are the people who are going to build whatever Spain is in the future. That is why we have to guarantee their growth under appropriate, economic, but also social, cultural and emotional conditions. Therefore, I am very concerned. Children are people who cannot protect themselves and that makes them more vulnerable; they need us, their future is in our hands. It is our duty to protect them from risks, to ensure an adequate environment for their growth and to provide them with the maximum opportunities for their future. I am concerned that we should simplify a reality that is much more complex. She's asking me about child poverty; we're going to try to do it in a way that would be and rigorous. I am as concerned as you that there are children, families who cannot reach the end of the month; children, families who have to juggle to live in dignity. But let us not dispense with a real analysis that will allow us to carry out substantive political action, with the real objective of ending child poverty in our country. Talking about child poverty is talking about families with children who have financial difficulties. The relative poverty risk rate is, according to the latest living conditions survey, 22%. But I'll tell you one thing. You mentioned this survey of living conditions; this survey is from the INE and came out in 2015 but it is from 2014, and today there are no more INE surveys than this. You have told me that the following say that poverty continues to grow; for now there is only this survey, 2014 and leaves in 2015. This survey says that poverty is 22.1%. On the other hand, in a family of two adults and with one or two children, the risk of poverty is already 25%. And if the family is single parent or is a large family, the risk is 37%. What's this telling us? That we have to help families with children especially because they are the most vulnerable. And what are we doing? First, by generating the economic conditions that have allowed this country to create jobs again. You don't want to hear about the job, but I'll tell you one thing. The first factor that generates child poverty is that children's parents are not working. In this regard, we have moved from destroying 1,500 jobs per day in the 2008-2011 legislature to creating 2,300 jobs per day in the 2011-2015 legislature. We will continue to work, but in any case the situation quite different from what it was and the creation of jobs, whatever they may be, has a direct impact on the reduction of family poverty and, therefore, on the reduction of child poverty. Employment is one of the most important measures, but it is not the only one, of course. We were clear that we should help families with children because families with children are the most vulnerable. We therefore strengthen financial support for families with children. What did we do? We approved a tax reform of the IRPF that meant that families with children pay less taxes. I'll tell you one thing, all the families we have children have a deduction per child. In 2011 the deduction for a child was 1,850 euros; now the deduction is 2,500 euros. The 2011 deduction for families with a second child was €2,040; now the deduction is €2,700. In 2011, for families with a third child, the deduction was €3,600; now it is €4,000. And the families that had four or more children, for each child, the deduction was 4,100 euros and now it is 4,500 euros. Therefore, there are many families that have much more support through the IRPF for child allowance. Moreover, we incorporate 100 euros a month for each family with a disabled ascendant or a disabled child, for large families also 100 euros more and for single-parent families with two children also 100 euros more. In addition, these 100 euros were complementary, in addition: if there was a large family that also had a disabled child, it would charge 100 euros per large family and 100 euros for the disabled child. We also strengthen unemployment protection for families with children; we increase the financial support of the Preparation Programme in cases where the unemployed had dependent children; and we have launched the Special Activation Programme for unemployed persons with dependent children, which has served more than 200,000 people. Behind those 200,000 people there are names and surnames, there are eyes, children looking at us. This assistance from the special activation programme is EUR 426 per month, compatible for five months with work on behalf of others. We also established that long-term unemployed people who were no longer unemployed had completely free medicines because they had so far paid 40% of them. We are therefore helping families, and especially the most vulnerable, who are the ones with children. We also launched the child and family support program that you have criticized. The child and family support programme includes social emergency assistance to help families pay rent, water, electricity, buy food, pay day care, school meals, child support programmes and other family support services. In 2014 this plan had 17 million euros; in 2015, 32 million euros and in 2016, 48 million euros. Therefore, the Government of Spain has been at the side of the families. In addition, we established that social assistance was exempt from paying the IRPF and was unimpeded, which means strengthening the social protection of these families. Another very impressive and important measure that no one in democracy has ever implemented is that since 1 January 2016, women who retire and have children are supplemented by their pensions with 5%, 10% or 15% more per month of their pension base, depending on the children they have. This, what does it mean? That when these women were working at the age of 20, 30, or 40 and devoted themselves to caring for their children, they probably gave up full - time contracts, they gave up contributions. So, what less than now, when they retire, we give them back the effort to give up contributions to care for their children. We are therefore helping you with these pension supplements. [[Applauds]] With regard to housing, we were the first Government of Spain to improve protection for mortgage debtors. We have established the suspension of the launch in cases of mortgage execution on habitual housing of persons belonging to particularly vulnerable groups, including families with children under three years of age, with persons with disabilities or dependency, single-parent or large families, families in which the debtor is unemployed and has exhausted benefits, families of victims of gender-based violence. In addition, we set up the Social Housing Fund so that families who have become homeless have access to housing paying between 150 and 400 euros a month, paying up to 30% of the family's income. More than 45,000 families have been able to benefit from these measures. Behind these 45,000 families there are names and surnames and there are childhood, there are children. It may be insufficient, okay, but we were the only ones, nobody had done so much before against child poverty. Child poverty - and now I'm going to beat what you've commented, which I don't know where you've taken the data from because you've only told me about the INE survey - has dropped two points in the last INE living conditions survey, 2014 survey that came out in 2015, but with 2014 data. Since then, no other survey has emerged from the INE. You said that according to the INE survey year after year poverty is increasing. I'm telling you about the 2014 one that came out in 2015. It is the first survey of the INE since the beginning of the economic crisis. Taking into account this data, which I say is 2014 data, having a 33% child poverty at all is a good data, it is not the data that anyone in this House wants, but it allows me to say that the policies of the previous government at least have not worsened child poverty in our country. It will be necessary to see how the INE survey evolves in 2015 and 2016, but at least we have reversed the trend because in this 2014 INE survey poverty has fallen two points. It is not enough, we are not happy with any of those in this House, but we have reversed the trend. Do not come here to say that poverty is increasing when the INE says it has dropped two points. [[The lady]] We will continue to work with the same intensity as we did in the past legislature to combat child poverty. First, we will continue with economic and budgetary policies that will allow us to continue to create jobs because we have seen that parental unemployment is the first factor in child poverty. You know that this government's goal is to get 20 million people working in 2020. Secondly, we will continue to strengthen support for families with children. We will develop a national strategy to prevent and combat poverty in which we will focus on improving models of social intervention, strengthening all programmes that serve to strengthen the capacities of families. We will strengthen social emergency aid and socio-educational support programmes for families under the support programme for children and adolescents. We will also strengthen socio-occupational intervention programmes for women in vulnerable situations, because in these households the impact of these women's work on the situation of their children is very important. And we are going to draw up a comprehensive family support law to coordinate and update this support, especially taking into account the situation of large families and single-parent families, who have already seen that they are the ones at greatest risk of poverty. In addition to all this, we will improve the protection of children at risk, children who have no family. You told me about the kids who are in foster care. Although it is not the majority reality, it exists, and they also need our help. The past legislature had reformed child protection legislation, which had been adopted with a strong social consensus and had been applauded by all social entities involved in child protection. As you know, this reform strengthened the protection of minors who are at risk and helpless. For example, we have simplified the constitution of foster care so that the maximum number of children can live with a family without going through a foster care centre. Support resources were also provided for young people who were extolled when they left the centres, so that their transition to an independent life would be easier for them. And the protocol of unaccompanied foreign minors was approved, which establishes how, when and who should act when a unaccompanied foreign minor is located in Spanish territory. We now need to develop some of these aspects on a regulatory basis to ensure that they are effective, such as the establishment of minimum criteria for child protection centres to ensure that these children receive adequate treatment. We will also address in this legislature the drafting of a comprehensive protection law against violence against children. We need to better protect children from any situation of violence against them because this affects, in addition to their physical integrity, their psychological integrity in the future. I'm done. Count on me to fight child poverty and to protect children in general, but from rigour, without demagoguery. Let us make serious approaches that allow us to address the problem of children from their complexity and with the aim of reaching long-term solutions; that is, to solve the problem from the root and not to put patches in the short-term that the only thing they offer us is a good headline. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Belarra Urteaga, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u179	Thank you. I told him not to talk to me about three things and he told me about all of them. Then, in part. You were referring to the 2015 data, and just before you said that the last survey we had was the 2014 survey, which was published in 2015. According to these data, which are indeed the last ones we have, child poverty rises by 3.5%, with the last three years rising. Therefore, the one who has to explain where you get the data is you. [[Applauds]] I believe that the aim is not to protect children, who are political subjects and first-class subjects, but rather to protect their rights. He talks to me again about employment policy. I asked him not to talk about it because once his magnificent employment policy has a direct effect, supposedly, on the situation of families and children in our country, he has to explain to us how we are going to fall from 20% of poverty, which, as I said, is a structural problem in our country and which even in times when the economic situation was better and the jobs were of better quality was still there. I was also asking him about the child benefit. He asked him two very specific questions: how much investment in children is going to increase as a percentage of GDP, a very simple question, and, on the other hand, whether they intend to increase the child benefit and how much and in what time frames. He hasn't answered those questions. I believe that you are willing to improve the situation of children in our country, I do not deny that, but I do not think it is just about having will but about putting in place the most effective measures to ensure that the rights of children in our country are guaranteed. Spain is one of the only six countries in the European Union that do not have a universal benefit and all six countries are among the ten that have the highest poverty and poverty risk rates. Spain is a country with a very low investment in children, we are not even close to 0.5% of GDP in terms of monetary benefits to the family and children, very far from the 1.6% - almost triple - which is the average of the European Union. These are Eurostat data for 2012. He told me again about the legislative reforms. I have already told you that a priori we could agree on some points, but I have to remind you of the final twentieth provision of Law 26/2015 on the Legal Protection of Minors, which reads as follows: The measures included in this rule will not be able to increase public expenditure, as well as allocations, salaries and other staff costs. So can you explain to me how legislation will improve the lives of children in our country if there are no regulations and no budget? [[Applauds]] The truth is, it's hard to understand. He was also talking to me about the deductions by IRPF. This is a very common trap; in fact, I was faced with a lot of pretty messy measures. I proposed to him a single measure, which is proven, has a direct effect and which greatly reduces child poverty in the countries in which it has been adopted. You don't talk to me about proven results; I do. One of the problems with IRPF deductions is what happens to those families that do not make the income declaration, which are precisely the families that are in the worst situation, that are the poorest. [[Applauds]] I'd like you to respond to that, too. And I take this opportunity, as I have the opportunity, to ask you if you are planning to appoint a head for the Family and Children Services Directorate, which has ceased since July 2016. I do not know if it seems to them that the social emergency situation that our children are experiencing is not important enough for them to have a direct political leader to address the situation once and for all. Finally, I would remind you that although boys and girls do not vote, and perhaps that is why this graph is understood to mean that other sections of the population have been protected much more than boys and girls, even if they do not vote, have the right to political participation, as I imagine you will know. And since they have difficulty in having access to and being able to tell a minister what their conclusions are, I have brought to you the conclusions of the Councils of Child and Youth Participation, which are the formal spaces in which boys and girls have the right to participate, and they tell us things like this: to start politicians to end poverty; to make more social intervention in situations of risk; that when it's bad weather we won't be cold at home. See how simple it is: that when it's bad weather, we won't be cold at home. I believe that if instead of making policies for children we did them with children, policies would be much fairer and more humane. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Belarus. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u181	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Belarra. Not a measure. Not one. I have heard nothing from you to eradicate child poverty. [[Applauds]] Not one! I'd like to know how you're going to reduce child poverty. Venezuela measures, perhaps? I haven't heard one! [[Protests.-Applause.]] This is not an inquiry into the General Budgets of the State, Mrs Belarus, but an inquiry to value, to work to eradicate child poverty. And in order to continue to take measures to eradicate child poverty, we need budgets, budgets that you, of course, are going to say no to. But they will not even be able to introduce any measures into these budgets because they have not brought us any measures to eradicate child poverty. They may be disturbed by the principle of agreement of the People's Party and the Socialist Party reached yesterday on the reform of the Electricity Act for the issue of the social bonus. You insist that the policies of the previous government have worsened child poverty in this country and I insist that this is not true, that this minister is based on the INE and the INE says that we have dropped two points in child poverty. I told you in my first speech, child poverty has fallen two points and this is the first time since the beginning of the economic crisis. This is a change of trend and we cannot be happy but we have to continue working to create jobs. Look, the crisis that started in 2007 left - and I want to remind you because it was not this government but the previous one, that of the Socialist Party - 3.5 million unemployed people, and that is creating a lot of poverty. The youth unemployment rate increased threefold, reaching more than 1.5 million unemployed young people in 2011. Half of the unemployment that was generated in Europe was generated in Spain, seven out of ten women who were unemployed in Europe were Spanish; 1,500 people a day were unemployed, we had a broken financial system that could not lend money to families or businesses and jeopardized the savings of many of them. The risk of poverty and social exclusion increased at that time to 13%, growing five times faster than in the European Union. Social inequality has increased by 8% and you all blame it on the People's Party. No, this is not the case, it was left-wing politics that led to the ruin of this country. It cannot be said that the policies of the previous Government are responsible for increasing child poverty. The rate of poverty and social exclusion for children under the age of sixteen has been reduced by 2 points in the last survey of living conditions. Yes or yes, this is an objective fact even if you deny it. The first factor that generates child poverty, without any doubt, is that parents do not have a job. That is why we have strengthened support for families with children. Because it is really the most vulnerable families, the ones with children, that we have to help. And we have not forgotten about children at risk by strengthening the protection of children at risk and helpless by amending the Child and Adolescent Protection Act, which, for example, simplifies the constitution of foster care - since you were also talking to me about foster care - with the aim that the maximum number of children can live in a family without going through a foster care centre. We will strengthen social emergency aid and socio-educational programmes under the support programme for children and families. We will coordinate and update the support that families receive by proposing the development of a comprehensive family support law. We will be there, always with the families, and we would like you to be not from the demagogy but from the rigour that these families require. As you know, our social protection system was built in a somewhat messy way over time and that has caused us to have some problems of effectiveness. That is why we are going to solve it, first - as we agreed with the social partners - by drawing up a map of resources that will allow us to see who gives and what impact it has and then discuss how to improve it. I am convinced that if we have this map we will reach more people with the same resources. And here I want to give importance to the social card, which will allow us to reach more vulnerable people. With just one click we can see vulnerable people. I am very concerned - like you - about the situations of need that families and their children can now experience, but I am also very concerned about how this can affect the intergenerational transmission of poverty. In other words, I am very concerned about preventing children of poor parents from also being condemned to live in a vulnerable situation. That is tremendously unfair, an attack on equal opportunities, which must be a basic principle of our social State. That is why we must not neglect other aspects that I mentioned in my first speech. We must not neglect education, we must not neglect the importance of the socio-occupational integration of women and we must not forget the need to improve the way we approach these families from social intervention. Finally, I wouldn't like to forget one thing. To help our children and to end our country's child poverty, it is very important that we can offer them a country that creates opportunities. Without opportunities there is no future, and for that we need a country that grows and generates jobs and trust. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u182	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u183	Sixth point, validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 5/2016 of 9 December, of urgent measures for the extension of the timetable for the implementation of Organic Law 8/2013 of 9 December, for the improvement of educational quality. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you to request on behalf of the Government the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 5/2016 of 9 December 2016 of urgent measures for the extension of the timetable for the implementation of the Organic Law 8/2013 of 9 December 2013 for the improvement of educational quality. This Royal Decree-Law, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on Friday, December 9, wants to be the first step towards the social and political pact for education, a pact that the Spanish society demands of us, which asks us to give us certainty, to guarantee stability and to provide certainty to our educational system. This decree-law, whose validation I request today, is therefore of great importance. Since the 1970s, the Spanish education system has been subject to continuous legislative changes which are de facto preventing its proper functioning. The Government has therefore set itself the objective of achieving this pact of social and political state for education with all political formations and the educational community in order to provide the Spanish educational system with stability. Citizens ask us for a stable and certain framework, where students, families, teachers and schools are their true center, and not the ideological struggles that distract attention from what is truly important: working for an educational system in which merit and effort are their hallmarks of identity; the freedom and right of parents to choose the education of their children are basic premises, and that it is equitable and that guarantees equal opportunities for no student to be affected in their academic results by their personal circumstances or by their territory of origin. No one in Spain should stop studying for economic reasons. That is precisely what has led us to adopt this royal decree-law; that situation of uncertainty in the face of the holding of the tests by students, families and teachers made urgent and necessary action necessary. This justifies, therefore, the extraordinary and urgent need required by article 86 of the Constitution for the processing and adoption of a bill, and this extraordinary and urgent need occurred because, as you know, the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce is in the fifth transitional provision itself and a Government in office is forbidden by law to present legislative initiatives. Therefore, until there was a Government in full exercise of its activity, this initiative that we are presenting today could not be carried out. As I said, today we have the opportunity to take that first step towards the agreement, by validating this decree-law which reflects a consensus of almost all groups present in this House; an important step, moreover, that will show to Spanish society that the political forces are able to agree for the welfare of the citizens and that it shows the will of all to achieve the educational pact; an agreement between the political forces for which the President of the Government advocated in his investiture speech before this House on 30 October. On that occasion, and as a sign of a desire for dialogue, he undertook, in response to the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to suspend the academic effects of the final assessments pending. This commitment was ratified by the Government on 15 November. Then, as you will recall, this House took into consideration a proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to process an amendment to the existing educational law aimed at suspending the timetable for the implementation of assessments. At that session, I spoke on behalf of the Government to offer all parliamentary groups in Congress and the educational community a much quicker solution from a legal point of view and thus more appropriate and effective. I then committed myself before the plenary of this House to raising to the Council of Ministers a royal decree-law that would postpone certain outstanding aspects of the Lomce's implementation schedule and I also committed myself to agreeing that royal decree-law with the autonomous communities, and I did so only two weeks later, in particular on 28 November, at the Sectoral Conference on Education. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective pursued by the Royal Decree-Law is to provide certainty to the educational community as to the characteristics and effects of the assessments to be made at the end of high school and high school, and in particular to the students enrolled in this school year in the fourth year of ESO and in the second year of high school who have to carry out this test. The former were going to perform it already without academic effects, and the latter as a previous step for access to the university, equally without effect regarding its graduation in this course 2016-2017. This royal decree-law, which I am submitting today to the validation of this House, does not mean that the Government will give up the law, nor that it has ceased to consider the assessment of knowledge acquired as something of importance; it means that while the negotiations on the social and political pact for education are being carried out, the results of the final evaluations will not have academic effects in obtaining the degrees of ESO and baccalaureate and, therefore, their organization and development will take into account this circumstance. Consequently, and until the legislation resulting from the social and political pact for education enters into force, the final stage evaluations will have the following characteristics. The final evaluation of primary education, which began the course 2015-2016 and which allows us to check the degree of acquisition of competences in linguistics, mathematics and science and technology, will be of a sample nature and will be carried out on a significant number of students and centers. The final evaluation of compulsory secondary education will have the following characteristics: the evaluation will have a diagnostic purpose, will have a sample character, participating in it the student enrolled in the fourth course that has been selected by the Education Administration and by the option studied; it will be limited to the general trunk subjects of the last course: geography and history, Spanish language and literature, mathematics and foreign language. The final evaluation of the baccalaureate will be compulsory for students who wish to access university studies. This test, which we have agreed with the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities, to whom I would like to thank expressly for their cooperation and collaboration, will have the following characteristics: The evaluation will be taken into account for access to the university and will not be necessary to obtain the bachelor's degree. The organization of the baccalaureate evaluation will be the responsibility of educational administrations in collaboration with universities, which will assume the same functions and responsibilities they had in relation to university access tests. In relation to the scope of the test, the latter shall assess the acquisition of competences through the general second-grade core materials and the choice core materials may be used to raise the mark. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the configuration of this baccalaureate evaluation resembles the tests of access to the university with two important differences: firstly, the evaluation will aim at the competences in the terms laid down in the ESO and baccalaureate curricula approved in the development of the Lomce and, secondly, at the homogeneity of the test, which will not only conform to the dates as before but also to the characteristics and contents established by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport, which is a very remarkable element for the cohesion of our educational model. The holding of these tests throughout the Spanish territory during the negotiation period will undoubtedly provide benefits, because it will allow a diagnosis of the needs of educational institutions and their students with the aim of improving educational benefits in each centre and because it will allow the educational community to adapt to the new system and the educational reality of each autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree is part of a much broader and broader objective: the achievement of this social and political pact for education, of which this rule, as I said at the beginning of my speech, is a first step but an important step. Another important step is the establishment of this subcommission within the Education Commission, which will work towards the elaboration of this state pact for education. But in order to achieve this, we need to work together on this because above all political interest and revenue, our actions must be motivated by the general interest of the Spaniards, because society requires all political parties to seek common points, to park our differences and today we can show them that we have listened to them and that we are willing to do so. As I have repeated on several occasions, the Government wishes to take this opportunity to arrive for the first time in the history of our democracy at a state pact for education that translates into an educational law born of all and for all Spaniards. We have defended this before, during and after the elections, including this objective in our electoral programme. And not only have we defended its importance, we are aware that we need a state pact for education, a state pact that establishes a stable framework for the next generations of Spaniards, a state pact that leaves aside our differences and focuses on students, their families, teachers and centers; a state pact that is ultimately the success of all, of the Spaniards as a society. To achieve this, we must pay particular attention to the entire educational community, strengthen the social dimension of education and fight for an equitable, inclusive and quality education that respects educational freedom as a fundamental principle. Therefore, the active participation of all groups and members of the educational community, as well as representatives of citizens who, like all of you, are depositaries of national sovereignty, is essential to achieve this pact. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am finished. Our great objective in this legislature is and must be to achieve that lasting educational law, a law that does not confront, but one that guarantees the right to education and freedom of education proclaimed by the Constitution and that is based on the principles of merit, capacity and equal opportunity. A law, in short, that makes the student a free, mature and responsible citizen and teachers a reference model in knowledge, critical spirit and values from education in freedom. Therefore, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. There have been no requests that we have heard in the Bureau against or in favour of. We therefore move on to position-fixing. Firstly, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, honourable Members, there is a phrase in the Canary Islands that my father used a lot when I told him the things he was going to do and it was: What need? It's very graphic. What need do we need to get to this point today? We told the People's Party and today you say that it is the wish of the People's Party to have the consensus not only of the political forces but of the educational world, but they took out a law, a Lomce, without having any political or social consensus, without taking into account anyone or anything, with the prepotence of the absolute majority. Now they have to change simply because they do not have the absolute majority, not because there is a will of the People's Party to back off, but because, in addition, Citizens and Coalition Canary, which we were key in the investiture session, we put them in the negotiating table where we were with the People's Party. That's why we're here today eliminating a invalid that was a real nonsense and that's the first step actually. We believe that with regard to making ranquins between educational institutions with different socio-economic and cultural conditions, different conditions that are not given only between autonomous communities but even within the autonomous communities themselves, it will be necessary to see how these data are to be used so that in the end they do not create a situation that causes this poorly used and badly barred ranquin to create problems. Of course, the Canarian nationalists, the Canary Coalition and the Canarian Nationalist Party, want to participate in this new education project that this country needs, regardless of who it governs. Don't let it happen again! We have the school failure rates we have, but we will be about to add to a law of permanent education, good and consensual with the educational stages and with the political forces. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will vote in favour of the administrative development of the decision taken by the Government to amend its educational policy, subject to a great pact that Forum has already called for in the tortuous process of Lomce. It was that period in which the absolute majority listened deafly, because of a lot of insistence that I then displayed, among others my colleague and predecessor Álvarez Sostres, trying to show the need to promote a law that at least reflected the electoral commitments of the People's Party. This royal decree-law specifies the various counter-reform impacts of the implementation timetable, but there is no talk of what it will mean in the political, social and educational world to burden caps with some homologating and vertebrating essences. It is the most relevant consequence of postponing the external tests by disguised as tests of no academic value and is also assumed to be of no eliminatory character. At the Forum we argue that the school system should have an external evaluation complementary to that of the teachers of each centre and it would be enough to ask in Europe. Mr Minister, the pact should establish minimum levels common to the whole State that go beyond the autonomous competition framework and that have been causing great academic inequalities for years, as the results of the last PISA report have attested. That would mean something different than selectivity, where each autonomous community does what it wants. We think that the external tests at the end of the stage, at least of the baccalaureate, are essential in a census and agreed with all the actors involved and, by the way, to see if they expand, as they had in their programme, the baccalaureate to three years and free of charge. For Foro, the real reform of Spanish education is not curriculum, organizational or structural, but that of teacher training and selection with the appropriate agreements with universities, unions, associations and educational business entities. In this matter we are coming to a limit and without a good teacher there is no successful educational reform. I conclude, Madam President, with a small final point on the subject of duties: clear attribution of schools in the field of their pedagogical autonomy that has never been developed, not even by the PSOE. School duties are imposed by the teacher of the group and the teaching team; to eliminate them would be to crush the pedagogical principles, which will certainly be very convenient for some parents. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u189	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr Salvador Armedáriz has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you frame this reform in a climate of dialogue regarding a possible educational pact that we want. Let me quickly give you a small decalogue of principles, suggestions or recommendations, of course, open and incomplete. First of all, we will not begin if we do not appreciate how good Lomce has, as if everything done so far was a blank sheet. Secondly, we will not improve education if we do not draw clear lessons from the last PISA report. Third, we can bet on lowering the level of our children's demands and even suppressing duties, but we will achieve two goals: our children will know less and may be more unhappy. Four, a reform based on ideological prejudices is a mistake and would be a failure. Five, a reform that encourages the exacerbation of differences and eliminates common content is an option, but no better or more advantageous than the one that puts in value and teaches everything we share. Sixthly, education without reasonable, objective and common assessments can be a failure; if we decide not to evaluate the students, what we will have to evaluate will then be the systems, the centers and the teachers and for the latter we will demand a fair remuneration, regain professional dignity and the principle of authority. Seventh, not seeing the importance and need of English today is almost as much as not accepting that the land is round and I think we have to demand at least the C1. Eighth, if the condition for an educational pact is to prevent families from choosing the centre and education they want for their children, including differentiated education, there will be neither a pact nor a possible pact; choosing the education of our children is not a concession or a gift, it is a constitutional right. Ninth, the public network must seek excellence, ensure equal opportunities and equity and efficiently manage diversity. And tenth, either we stop using education as a tool for the construction of future voters or as an instrument of national construction or division, or we will be engaged in continuing to make the same mistakes, ladies and gentlemen. I have these principles, but, as he would say, I also have others that in any case are similar. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will announce our group's vote against the validation of this royal decree for something as simple as what we have repeated, myself, in this rostrum on more than one occasion. Euskal Herria Bildu does not support Lomce; moreover, we do not support it either in form or in substance, we do not support it in its hard version or in its light version. We will turn all our efforts into repealing it, never softening it or adapting it, because we believe that with this measure what is done is to extend the implementation schedule, the agony that for many students is assuming Lomce. With revalidated a little more light one runs the risk of changing the form and giving for good the background, and the background is the same that we have been pointing out on more than one occasion: the standardization, the recentralization and the generation of a unique identity for all and for all. The minister pointed out this in his speech. It wants a pact of state born of all and for all Spaniards or, which is the same, a formation of the national spirit adapted to the twenty-first century. That's something Euskal Herria Bildu doesn't commune with and will never do. We are much closer and closer, encouraging and supporting them, to the 178 educational centres that have decided to plant the disabled. That is the way of opposition to the Lomce, not entering into pacts that seek, through sweetening, to continue to maintain the precepts of a law that what is intended is to generate, on the one hand, re-centralization and standardization - as I have already pointed out - and, on the other, to put education at the service of the interests of the market and not at the service of the creation of critical, creative and happy generations. For this reason, we will vote against and again point out here that what Basque students need will have to be decided by the Basque students, the Basque educational community as a whole and the citizenship of Basque Herria as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Matute García de Jalón. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u194	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not like Lomce, we have never liked it because it represents the end of a political era, it represents the lack of dialogue, it represents the change of fundamental rights for the free market, and in the end it reflects the will to dismantle the social and legal state. But today with this proposal we see the possibility of taking a small step to regain - if you can say so - the dignity of our education. Today, with the modification of this royal decree, we think that we can begin to slow down the effects of Lomce. We can take the first step so that this law does not affect the student so much while this expected derogation arrives. An elitist, mercantile, and written law by whom I believed to have absolute power can have less effect today. It is a shameful law that has had boys and girls in high school without knowing what the evaluation mechanism would be, without knowing which subjects were to be evaluated or which institution would barter their examinations. Do you remember when they were assessed for selectivity? I do. We spent an entire course preparing the exams, the teacher explained how they would be, taught us models from other years that scared us. Imagine this without knowing what you have to prepare, without knowing what you will have to do in the exam that will be the most important of your academic life. Although it is insufficient, we will vote in favour. We will do so as long as we continue to demand its repeal; we will do so because it is a calendar that is consensual with autonomy; we will do so because the invalids become a simple sampling tool; we will do so because this calendar keeps the tests of access to the university as we know them, because the acquired knowledge is evaluated and because we know that our advisor, Vicent Marzà, and his good doing have to do with this decision. The protests of teachers, AMPAs and students have served to undo this law, which is made against the educational community, and have given us a very valuable lesson. Let us hope that the next time we talk about education is to say at last that the government has implemented Parliament's decision and that Lomce has passed into history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sorlí Fesquet. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everybody. The Democratic Party will vote against the validation of this royal decree. Operation dialogue, Minister? Precisely this royal decree is the reflection of the non-dialogue, of the disinterest of the Spanish Government in solving the problems that affect the good functioning of the Catalan administration. Maybe it might seem a little impatient or insistent, but it's not just that. We are too eager not to waste a single minute in solving the problems that affect Catalonia and I say this because in his appearance he promised to give me day and time to see and talk about these issues in Catalonia and today I have no news of him. This royal decree does not eliminate the indecent additional provision thirty-eight. If the royal decree amends aspects of Lomce, why is there not a single wink at Catalonia? Operation dialogue, I guess. For those who do not know the additional provision thirty-eight, it is a direct attack on linguistic immersion. I'll tell you about it briefly. Hello, we are a family that resides in Catalonia, we know that Catalan is the official and vehicular language, but, as we do not go too far with cultural and linguistic wealth and we also live in the Kingdom of Spain, we want to school our children in a school where the vehicular language is Spanish. Nothing happens - the Spanish Government says -, the Generalitat of Catalonia very kindly will give you 6,000 euros so that you can school your children in the private school you want. This seems a joke, but it is not, it is the reality of the People's Party when its obligation is to inform citizens that the Catalan model is a model of cohesion, integration and success. Let us also be suspicious, but the agreement of minimums imposed on the Sub-Commission on Education is signed by the party that collected signatures against the Statute of Catalonia, the party that is born from the seed of hatred to linguistic investment and that also takes advantage of any intervention to intoxicate the Catalan reality and the party that directly presumes that the Statute of Catalonia has been brushed. I listened carefully to your appearance, Minister, and your intentions seemed honest to me, but the reality is another. I just see more of the same, I mean, nothing. As far as external evidence is concerned, it is not sufficient to modify or postpone it, but to recognize that such evidence will never have academic effects and that it is the competence of the communities. I remind you, Minister, that in Catalonia we have been doing these tests of basic competences for more than ten years, which are merely diagnostic, and have never been used to condition the student's title. Let us do what we have done for a long time and which we also do well. I'm done, Madam President. Let's do an exercise. Imagine the situation in reverse; imagine that the Generalitat of Catalonia in an act of distension recognizes that in Catalonia in addition to Catalan the Spanish is spoken. A scandal. This is what the Spanish Government has done with Catalan. If you can only understand what is happening in Catalonia superficially, how are you going to solve anything? Shall we talk, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras i Camero. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u198	Thank you, Madam President. The Government is bringing to this House today the Royal Decree-Law 5/2016 of urgent measures for the extension of the Lomce implementation calendar, with the aim of validating it and thus making effective from now on the measures envisaged in that decree. The minister explained to us in his speech presenting the royal decree the content, changes and ways of implementation. That's right, just like you said. He also told us in his speech to the Committee on Education a few weeks ago, the day after exactly that the Sectoral Conference on Education was held, where the minister came with the good news under his arm, although, as I will detail later, it is not so much so. We have debated a lot in this House about Lomce, from its genesis to its application. More than four years we have been discussing this criticized and above all rejected law. Let's not forget, this is what we've come for the Lomce. We're here today debating this for Lomce. Following the disencounter, the imposition, the denial of dialogue, following all that, which is Lomce, we have come here today to this debate. Without the Lomce all this would not have been necessary, all this would have been avoided, it is a journey for which there was no doubt that these new cushions were needed that we are constantly trying to carry as it can. Both discuss, argue and offer the position of the educational community, of the autonomous communities, of the unions, no matter. But no, imposition of Mr Wert in his time and his government, including his president. What's going on? That you no longer have absolute majority and cannot do as you please, you cannot impose. But so and so they find it difficult to reason and meet the demand. That is why they are unable to assume their legislative failure. They'll tell me they won the election. Obviously. All right. And? Does your model convince anyone in this House that it's not you? That is why the minister, as I told him himself in the Education Committee, had to come and order the disguised one that left his predecessor. I repeat, the disguised man who left his predecessor. I do not deny his will or his conception of education, which is surely different, I know it is different, from that of his predecessor. That is why I ask you again the question that I asked you in the Commission today in plenary. Does this change come because they are convinced that they were wrong or because they have no majority to maintain it? In any case, the change it brings us is minimal, and so and so everything does not convince us. It is clear that the invalids were a huge headache for the Government and that, in addition to failing to provide quality in the education system, they generated social and political conflict, and the competition area jumped into the bullring. Unfortunately, in this amendment, while acknowledging that it is a step forward and unravels an important knot we had on the subject of the revalidation of the baccalaureate, even primary and secondary diagnostic tests continue to be awarded to the central Government. I will not touch on what has already been explained here by other groups and by the minister himself, that is, the content or change that brings us to the previous situation, what is the difference, but I will tell you what my Government's adviser - also my party's - said, that this parliamentary group is not convinced of this change in its entirety. Firstly, instead of walking with partial modifications, we continue to call directly for the repeal of the Lomce. Just yesterday a representative of the People's Party came up to this rostrum to talk about another topic and said that - I open quotes - 'a new time is opened in which we should not talk about derogations, but about dialogue'. I close quotes. Dialogue when it cannot be imposed, because throughout the previous legislature you had time and opportunity to dialogue and did not even think about it. But also dialogue, but I do not derogate, because it is my law. What meaning does dialogue have for you? Gentlemen of the People's Party, do you know what I'm telling you? That I don't believe anything, that the subject of dialogue looks very good here, but I don't believe anything. As I said, we ask for the repeal of the law, but so and so - and making an effort of dialogue and negotiation - before this decree - even if the tests of both baccalaureate and primary and secondary compulsory are modified - we maintain our reservations, not to say clearly opposite position, regarding the tests established for primary and secondary, as well as that of the ESO, because even if they are diagnostic samples - as has been said - we do not believe that they should be included in the text, it was not necessary. The Basque Government, and this group also does so, asked the Minister not to collect these tests in the text, because it makes no sense to regulate them urgently when it has been decided that they are only diagnostic, with no binding academic value. But this regulation must also be done by the autonomous communities and not by the central government, because within our competences in the field of education it must be the autonomous communities - in our case it is Euskadi - that regulate and decide these diagnostic assessments, so we cannot support this validation. Once again you fall back into the same temptation. Has a major step been taken? No doubt, it is, but half. Euskadi cannot join this agreement that you so much preach. There is a desire to eliminate all those aspects of the law that were not implemented and that were posing a serious obstacle to reaching educational consensus, but it persists in continuing to keep track of those elements that, among others, have generated more conflict, debate and rejection in the educational community. That is to say, there is a proposal to eliminate in this course the most negative effects of so-called revalidates, but instead of making a short table to find a constructive consensus, it insists on its decafeinated maintenance and without being able to clearly perceive the objective that is intended to be achieved, except that of not denouncing oneself completely - which is to what was to be - of the sustained for so many years, with so much emphasis, with so much reasoning that no one understood and with so little dialogue. What is the point of continuing to regulate, Minister, end-of-stage evaluations, especially in the sixth grade of primary education and fourth grade of the ESO, which no longer have a global character of measurement of the education system at state level by disappearing all the elements common to its implementation raised in the actual decree of external evaluations in the failed order? I think that we should look for the need to include those elements in this royal decree when what was being asked for was what was being requested and what had to be changed was the subject of the famous regulation of the baccalaureate test. Therefore, Minister, my group is not going to support it for the reasons expressed, which are also in line with what was also set out at the sectoral conference by the Basque Government and its adviser, as well as by our group in the Committee on Education. We are grateful that your talent is different, of course it is, and your intention to reach an agreement on this. But, I repeat again, I would say that it is, at the very least, cynical to appeal to dialogue, to agreement, etc., when you have not paid any attention in the previous parliamentary term to everything you were asked to do. The question remains the same: why? Because they don't have an absolute majority? Or because they're convinced of it? Benjamin Britten, who was a musician but also philosophy enough, said that learning is like rowing against the current, when you stop doing it, you back off. I think it is time for you too to learn what the composition of this House is and what the community is asking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u199	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Uresti. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Members, Members, Minister of Education, I will start my speech with an exercise that asked my students: to put a title to the text with which the class began. And what is the title that we would put to this decree-law that is intended to validate? The mountain that gave birth to a mouse. Little, few changes are proposed to us by the Government and temporary, but with many pages of the State Official Gazette, there is no problem. They argue, argue, that I stay with the State Official Gazette and publish what I want. As Romanes said, leave me the decrees, discuss, discuss. Now I understand the minister's half smile and his air of sufficiency in his appearance on the Education Committee. Pardillos, I should think, pardillos. Why? Because you have the BOE and use it and the others have the word and we still contradict the word. They have forgotten - as I recall - that we have adopted in this Chamber in this legislature to repeal the Lomce, thanks to a proposal from the Joint Group. We approved it, but apparently there is no willingness to do what Parliament says. It is no longer a surprise to me, is it a surprise to any of you that the government does not apply what Parliament approves? [[Applauds]] It's good to know. I've come here to learn and I'm learning forced marches. Notice to navigators, for the group of fans of the pact for education and also dedicated to one of the philosophers of the head, we started this pact with the sword of Damocles of the Lomce working. We'll be in a hurry, if we don't reach an agreement, the Lomce will continue. Is this making a pact? Is this dialogue? Dialogue is based on equality, that is, on repealing the Lomce. Without the Lomce, let's start again. And with the pages of the BOE we could say what transitions are left for institutes and schools to function until the end of the course. Of course it can be done, if we have a group of state lawyers who do not eat them a Constitutional Court! [[Applauds]] I'm sure they're able to make a BOE in which these issues are minor. Attention, you already know the Rajoy method, control the times and sharpen spaces, especially of the opposition, which seems more and more small, more jibarized. If we are able to pass by 176 votes many things, why are we unable to control this government. Let him look at it because on the street it is hard enough to understand the slang of politicians, but what is more difficult to understand is their failure to comply with what has been promised, what was promised in the X Legislature: all the groups the first thing we will do is to repeal the Lomce; what we all present in the electoral campaign: we will repeal the Lomce. Now, by the art of birlibirloque, seen and unseen, constitutional joke, the Lomce disappears and we have the Official State Gazette. [[Applauds]] Smile, Minister, you've done it. If we swallow this hook, the Lomce will continue in force, renewed with a little sheet and paint, shiny, clean and gives splendor. With all their evils and without correcting their flaws. You won't find us on this trip; you eat it, you eat it. I'm going back to my high school, I'm going with the unitary platforms with the high head. Yes, thank you Republican Left, thank you, as an independent I can say what I think and do what I say. This is fantastic in politics! Appreciate it, Republican Left. [[Applauds]] To put an end to a certain optimism, Joan Tardà will return after Nadal. Fasten the belts that come in full shape. Good feast of the Invictus Sun and good Saturnals to all. Republic and education. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz Serra. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u202	Minister, I'm so glad to see you here. You're all right, aren't you? Okay? I tell you because at some point I've been worried about you, because in October, when in your ministry they said they didn't know me, I had the doubt that you had been the same as the protagonist of the film Memento. You've seen her, haven't you? His protagonist, Leonard, has at one point anterograde amnesia, as the doctors call it; that is, he cannot remember the concrete acts that have happened to him immediately and what he is doing is tattooing them to be able to remember. I will tell you that I was very calm when you appeared in this House and I saw that you were perfectly, that you had no tattoo. And I was more relaxed when you said publicly in your appearance before the Commission that we had indeed been talking about what is going to happen today. I am moving forward as we support it, and not only support it, but we would have liked to make a position in favour. As I know you are a great filmmaker and, in addition, you are Minister of Culture, I will continue within the framework of the audiovisual narrative. In my intervention I would like to make, on the one hand, an analepsis, which is to make a flashback, and, on the other hand, a prolepsis, which is to make a journey to the future. In the flashback I would like to talk about the causes that have brought us to what we are voting for today in this House. And in the journey to the future I would also like to talk about the consequences of not voting for the validation of the decree-law. I start with the flashback, and I sit this summer, in full negotiations between the People's Party and Citizens for the investiture, when my colleagues negotiated with the comrades of the negotiating team of the People's Party that, in point 78, in the educational field, we committed both forces - you more, because they were going to have government - to leave without effect those aspects of Lomce that would not have entered into force. The truth is - you have explained it very well - that this put the government in office in what the English call a catch-22, put you between the sword and the wall. On the one hand, you had to comply with the law, a law that had integrated the calendar and that had to draw a decree of invalids, but, on the other hand, you could not fully develop it either because there was a state school council that was a little dwindled and, on the other hand, you had undertaken with us to comply with the agreement. To solve this mischief there were two ways. One, which was the one I proposed to you, was to make a three-point bill - basically what you have collected -: the moratorium on the timetable, to leave the diagnostic tests without effect and to make a state pact, a subcommission for the national pact for education. This is the path that the PSOE, which goes a little backwards, has presented in this House, which, of course, we supported because it was the path that we had originally proposed. But, gentlemen of the PSOE, this way has a problem: if we do it the way you want to do it, we don't get there. We didn't get there, and in the end, the students have to be examined. The other option was express, which we voted on today and which you promised me to launch if there was a Government. This option, if it is dealt with, takes exactly the technical solution that we talked about in October, in which we are actually asking for a moratorium on the execution of invalids until we reach an agreement, because repealing it by repealing it is foolish, until we reach an agreement for a new law to exist. And I'm going to tell you one thing, I'm very pleased that you've been fair, intelligent and fulfilling your word. I am very pleased that this decree-law also has the acquiescence of the Autonomous Communities and the CRUE, and I am very pleased also - let me say this - that our arrival in politics has been useful, because I have heard interventions where we continue to live in the past and, if we continue in that position, we would probably continue to have no solution to a problem that has had 40,000 families in vile. Therefore, without slogans, without frantism, without numbers, we have achieved what much of the educational community and many political groups have been asking for for for months. So in this sense, thank you very much. I will now do the prolepsis, the journey to the future, which has to do with the consequences of what we are going to vote on today. Look, if today we process this validation and no parliamentary group, as you have already advanced, votes that it does not or asks that it be treated as a bill, probably tomorrow or the day after tomorrow this will be published in the BOE and next week the autonomous communities and universities will be able to work on giving a solution to the students who are distressed waiting to know what they are going to have to examine. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] If this decree is validated without problems, we will have a time of truce to get to work, without haste but without pause, in this subcommittee which is also approved today - let us hope - of the social and political pact where the whole educational community and all the forces of this House can get to work without frentist positions, with a constructive spirit and with the will to make politics useful. And probably for the gentlemen who still see ghosts, Wert's revalidations, which worry them so much, the revalidations of the non-consensus, will never resurrect. [[Applauds]] But if today some parliamentary groups, some, because I have heard several, are working to not process this decree law or are working to process it by means of a bill because they still want to franticize with education and continue to think about their votes and their cutas and they care about a curse people, yes, yes, a curse people, the indefinacy in which they are going to leave the students is going to be terrible and in the end they won't know how they have to examine themselves. [[Rumors]] So there's no more options, gentlemen. You can tell what you want here, in this rostrum, but you have to tell the people, yes, the Basques, the Catalans, the Valencians, the Navarros, that today, if this decree is not passed, there will be people in the trenches - caste as some call it - worried about the headlines and not about the selectivity exams, which is what occupies most of the students. So the validation of the royal decree, which I sincerely hope will be put into effect, I think it will end, I hope it will end, let us all hope that it will put an end to the failure of an educational policy, not only of the PP, but also of the previous parliamentary groups, of frentism and that it will inaugurate a new stage, of rigour, above all of rigour, of seriousness and of consensus focused solely and exclusively on achieving better education, which in the end is nothing more than achieving a better future for all our young people and for the whole of this country. I hope that all of us, including the nationalist groups, will be involved in this work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u203	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u204	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone, today the People's Party Government is proposing through a royal decree-law the paralysis, not the elimination, the paralysis of the invalids and the reorganization of the tests of access to the university. This royal decree is the written recognition of the failure of a roller policy without listening to the whole educational community intended to implement a unilateral educational reform. The Lomce, Minister, is a segregating, exclusive, elitist, retrograde and confessional law; a law in the style of the People's Party that had, precisely, in the application of the invalids its worst metaphor. Thanks to trade unions, student associations, green tides and activists in defense of public education, the People's Party today has no choice but to paralyse one of the main obstacles to the popular classes posed by the Wert Law and this pedagogical aberration to which you have wrongly called invalids. This is a delayed and simulated paralysis, as the decree states that the recognition of academic effects differs until the 2017-2018 academic year. We do not forget from the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea that this modification of the invalids has been the way of the People's Party of blackmail to Citizens and also the Socialist Party to reject a proposal of law of repeal that has already been approved in this same Congress, whose procedure was vetoed and appealed to the Constitutional Court by the Government. Also with the Lomce - and as my colleague Carolina Bescansa said this morning - you kidnap the powers of this House. Now the Minister, the Ministry of Education and the Government are asking for dialogue. Minister, until you repeal the Lomce your dialogue will not be a credible dialogue. We regret that in this they have at the moment the comrades of Citizens and also of the Socialist Party. On invalids, this royal decree extending the Lomce implementation schedule does not guarantee that these final tests will be repealed with all their consequences. For example, the decree is voluntaryly imprecise when it comes to pupils, pupils and centres that will have to carry out these tests; tests that announce as a sample but that do not close the door that could be census tests. The decree leaves the door open for the fourth tests to be censuses, i.e. for the entire student, so that they could be a revalidation trial and would silence the model - since it would already be the reference - for the next course. Surely this is what the Ministry of Education is looking for. On selectivity, literally lie to you. These new access tests will not be like the selectivity we have known so far. It is true, to be rigorous, that these tests will not condition the bachelor's degree and will only be carried out for the student who wants to access university studies - as was already the case with the PAU - but they have already made a change. There has already been a change in the classrooms, in the model of proof and in the educational structure of the baccalaureate itself. So, the spirit of Lomce has already permeated these tests that you today say you want to modify us. In addition, Minister, from United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we maintain our concern in some respects despite the makeup that your ministry has applied to the disabled and to selectivity. This is a make-up that was bought by the Socialist Party and by citizens when we had all voted and committed ourselves to repealing the Lomce, that was the commitment of this House. [[Applauds]] We are concerned, Minister, essentially four aspects which are also reflected in this royal decree. The first is the re-centralisation of the State. President Rajoy's first legislature has been characterized by his policies of re-centralisation to forced marches. Now their weakened parliamentary majority leaves them no choice but to simulate dialogue. Mr Méndez de Vigo, you know that making up policies is not dialogue. It is one thing to dialogue and another thing to make up the policies of the People's Party, which is what this government is doing. This decree de facto implies the maintenance of the re-centralization of the educational curriculum with the invasion of competences of the autonomous communities that this implies, many of them with recourse of unconstitutionality presented. Secondly, the inclusion of evaluable learning standards. This fact, which also maintains the royal decree, will mean a fundamental change in the teaching work and in the learning of students. They are, Mr Minister, standards that violate the autonomy of teachers, that become instruments of control and that undermine the capacity for pedagogical innovation that should be fundamental in our educational system. Third element, they seek training in memoristic knowledge. Education is not possible in a type of knowledge that gives you the ability to think, to take a critical stance on things and to be intellectually free. Fourth element, facilitate public ranches. They are tests that are not useful for graduation but can be a first step in establishing an unhealthy and unpedagogical competition between centers, teachers and students. Finally, there are two elements that also concern us with this royal decree. The first is the legal insecurity that you are throwing at the whole educational community and the business field that tests like these can open up. Minister, on the business field I wonder: if these tests do not benefit the student at all, if these tests do not benefit the teacher at all, if these tests do not benefit our educational system at all, who do they benefit? They can probably benefit companies that are going to carry them out. So you not only privatize public education and serve it on a tray as an economic business to your friends - surely that is why the first agent of the educational community, in quotes, with which you have met has been the Episcopal Conference - but that uses external evaluation as a possible business for some companies, because more than 1,200,000 students will have to undergo this type of testing with the respective notebooks, monitors, evaluation, etc. that this implies. With regard to legal uncertainty, knowing that the tests of selectivity must be made before June 10 and their provisional results must be published before June 24, you force the teacher to sense - not to know, but to sense - what the Administration of your autonomous community intends to do. In short, you are still not eliminating the evidence and now you are proposing to extend the deployment period and you are getting out of the way a possible reform of the PAUs, which in the end are not the model we had before. That certainly explains the management chapuza that the ministry is carrying out in the deployment of this law, in the deployment of the Lomce.. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u205	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Continued.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u206	... to try to make you see that you don't give your arm to twist. So, from United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we cannot vote in favour of this royal decree-law because it would be a way to legitimize the Lomce today and to collaborate in the lifting operation to the educational policies that the People's Party plans to develop. We will abstain and ask that this royal decree-law be passed as a bill. Unfortunately, we have already heard the spokesman for Citizens, who will continue to appear in the People's Party Government. Let us hope that the Socialist Party will accompany us and approve this request, because here there is no more tutya: either it is complicit with the government and it supports itself without reching until the last coma of this decree or it is opposed and we modify those elements that we do not share in the decree. You Socialist Party and Citizens decide what you are today. [[Applauds]] It should be noted, Minister, that thanks to the mobilization of the educational community the first cracks have been opened and this is the first step backwards in this sectarian educational policy that the People's Party has developed in recent years. So, Mr. Méndez de Vigo - and I end up president - do not become the José Ignacio Wert 2.0, listen to the educational community, which knows the most about education, do not refrain from maintaining a law that you yourself know is dead, eliminate the invalids, return to the PAU by leaving the experiments with gas for a course as transcendental as it is 2nd of baccalaureate and, above all, work within the framework of the pact of State by opening the four walls of this Congress, counting on the participation of the educational community, forgetting the lobbies who only want to do an education business by shielding their privileges, and there, Minister, you will be able to find the United Group Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea. Don't fool us any more, Minister, and remove the Lomce. It is approved by this Congress and is required by the mobilizations on the streets of the entire educational community. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u207	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Díaz Trillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I belong to the first generation of our country which, at the age of eighteen, was able to vote after forty years without doing so; I think it is the same one to which you belong. We also took the course of university orientation and selectivity, we were among the first to do so. But I still remember for my elders the fear generated by the invalids. In fact, it was not about 4th or 6th, but about 4th and revalid and 6th and revalid; there was even an entrance exam, what a coincidence!, very similar to that imposed by the very soon extinct Lomce; it was the entrance exam, to which at just ten years old the children went, with shorts or dresses, to be examined. In this respect, I would like to say to you that when in this same Chamber this law has been underlined here by the various spokesmen, made from a certain ideological absolutism, with a interference on the part of the Government and against all and against all, and also with a very clear position of the whole educational community, I remembered, precisely in those days, a document that my colleague Guillermo Meijón made available to me these days, which is precisely a node, of which some ladies and gentlemen will remember. In a report on the node of the 1970s, speaking precisely of the white book launched by Minister Villar Palací for the law at the time, there was literally talk of the failure of tests and systems that place every hundred students enrolled in primary education at twenty-seven in high school and only three in university. But it was more abundant and it recognized - and it also criticized with a voice that is not mine, it was of other times - the coexistence of two educational systems: one, for wealthy families, literally, and the other, for the most disadvantaged social sectors, that is, the poor. In that sense, I mention that report because the law called Wert, the Lomce, has not only been a time in black and white, I think it has been a practically black period of our democratic stage in education. I say - and it has been said - that there is an article, a comprehensive and formidable study by Professor Gómez Llorente, who was vice president of this House, who entitled it, in 2010, The reaction to the scene, precisely starting from a proposal for an educational pact that I will talk about later. He told them that there was also a clear segregating will to return to that school that obeyed a model as said on the television of the 1970s, that obsolete and segregating node. As for this decree, and I will allow myself a political consideration, in democracy the changes and even the revolutions, friends and friends, we have to do them with the BOE, there is no other way, and for that we have to conquer or win the elections and have the BOE. This party has ruled and enacted laws in the BOE that now, moreover, from the pact for education, they will necessarily recover. It is true that the decree draws from the black and white the situation of the invalids concretely and I also want to make a warning to those who believe that we must repeal the Lomce, as we do, and it is that in order to end it we must build another law that will finally repeal the Lomce. [[Applauds]] That is exactly how the alternative is built, because this group that I proudly represent - also because of its past in the Government - is not only opposition but also an alternative to Government. In this sense, the decree, part - let me use a linguistic consideration - of a great euphemism. And allow me a certain war language - I think you have used it -, battle and struggle. In fact, this soon extinct Lomce has raised the spirits of virtually all citizens. There have been demonstrations very recently against these same invalids. I say that we would have to consider from that war language that I propose, which means an act of claudication with respect to the invalids and in large part to the Lomce. Our group therefore has a favourable position. Moreover, you have spoken of the urgency of the decree and I would say that it was urgent three years ago, and I say today just three years because it will sound like you on 9 December. You brought this decree to the Council of Ministers precisely on 9 November. It's three years since Lomce. We have lost not only three, but almost six years, and we must therefore return to the point of departure. We are clear in the Socialist Group. You yourself, who today defends this decree, recognized - from the data of that PISA report, with all your flaws, criticisms and so on, but which contains elements that could coincide with your assessment - an imperfect preterite, we were not so bad, and I wish we would turn it into a perfect preterite soon. Logically, you have to put in place the trajectory of twenty-five or thirty years of educational laws that have allowed, and I return to that Spain in black and white... By the way, in the entire province of which I am a representative and studied there were only two institutes, the male and the female. Well, in the Education Commission the other day, we also end the sex-segregated concerts that are basically directed at religious orders. On this road of building more than breaking down a new law because it will logically make Lomce obsolete, we have a primary task of recovering all that. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u209	One second, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u210	I am tempted, Madam President, to begin reading El Quixote and perhaps so your lordships will attend, because I would speak Cervantes and not a servant. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u211	I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u212	I'll stick with the argument, and I'll try not to get lost. We were at the most important moment, which is looking to the future. This pact, I repeat, is favourable in a Spain of those 1970s in which only 15% of education in this country was public, the rest were paid schools and there was 25% illiteracy. In my province, where there was no university - there is already - only 1.5% arrived at the university, not those three students the node was talking about. Today the University of Huelva hosts more than 25% of Onubenses. And in Spain, if I am not mistaken, according to those data which also favored the last law of the socialist government, 40% of children under the age of thirty-four have university education. Let's also be proud to be able to build. What a doubt it is that we have made remarkable progress. In no country in our environment is the granddaughter of an illiterate peasant today a doctor or teacher, living where he lived; this has been achieved by this country and that is the spirit to start building and, above all, to listen. I think we need to listen carefully. [[Rumors]] Since you have received so many sticks, as is commonly said, in these speeches, allow me to commend you for listening to the CRUE, for listening to the sectoral conference, for listening to the School Council... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u213	Mr. Díaz Trillo, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not give the floor to Mr Díaz Trillo until you are silent. It will also be the only time I tell you to remain silent, because I think we must have respect; we should always have it, but even more so when we are talking about the education system in our country. I ask you, please, if you have anything to talk about, go to the hallway. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u214	I thank you for your comment and your patience, Madam President; mine is yours. I told them that precisely in order to build that pact we have to start from what we have to do and from what we also have to break down. What is the doubt that the Lomce must be repealed and that it will be repealed by another law - we are very clear - and for this it seems to me that all the progress made at the time by Minister Gabilondo, the provision that is now in place by society, or the provision of the minister himself, can be a good starting point. Look at you - and I'm finishing - a few days ago, also about the Lomce, our spokesman - philosopher too - Manuel Cruz, that the Revivals were the epitome, was the most finished thing we had of what the Lomce meant, and today the Revivals pass to the best life; we had said in his day that the Lomce was a dead law and today the Revivals pass to the best life, the Revivals run out, it returns to selectivity. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is to change from how one can change in democracy. I conclude by referring to Aristotle - of whom I have remembered by Manuel Cruz - who reserved for us politicians that of art as much as possible. It was based on the evaluation scheme of our students, who were also in the best hands, in those of the faculty. We have an excellent teacher; we will talk a lot about teachers in the drafting of the new law. In the hands of these teachers the student was very well evaluated, gave him a space of opportunity, evaluated his abilities, skills and knowledge. We will have to offer these young people a future through this pact. I would even dare to increase Aristotle's idea by saying that we have to apply a certain craftsmanship of what is necessary to build a better future where they can dream even of the impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u215	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the People's Parliamentary Group welcomes the fact that today we can validate a highly demanded regulation in this House by the families, by the students and by the Spanish society as a whole who have been waiting for what may be one of the most important decisions that these students are going to make throughout their lives: the transition from baccalaureate to university and, therefore, the move towards training that will determine much of their professional life. But also, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that among all of us, a vast majority of us in this House, we have been able to build an agreement. And that is important because that agreement, moreover, deals with one of the elements, in our opinion, most decisive for the improvement of the education system, and I am referring to evaluations. Today, as I said before, thanks to generosity, to the responsibility of a large part of this House, of the educational administrations and, of course, of the Government of the nation, the culture of evaluation remains present in our educational system. I say this because we, the People's Parliamentary Group, believe in evaluations. They are a necessary, indispensable tool to improve the quality of the education system. The best education systems - I am not referring exclusively to results - are those that have adopted evaluation policy as an indispensable and guiding element of their reforms. In 2012, the Mckinsey report valued evaluation as one of the key elements, which justified the improvement experienced by some of the most representative OECD countries. The policy of evaluation, transparency, accountability, despite some of the statements that have been made in this House, has proved extremely effective, because it is very simple: we cannot improve if we do not know how to correct our mistakes, we cannot correct them if we are not able to detect them and we will not detect them if we do not provide transparency to the system. That is the reality and I think it is a point where we can agree. In addition, the culture of evaluation has become a gap in our educational system. It is not true that the education system, it is not true that the educational community is against evaluation. All the educational administrations, absolutely all of them have been committed to evaluation. They have gone to their own and external evaluations. Without going further, PISA has recently offered us an X-ray that, by the way, has highlighted the differences that exist between autonomous communities. If we have that evidence, it is precisely because the autonomous communities, of different signs and conditions, have been prepared to be evaluated. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss what is the most appropriate framework for the evaluation to achieve its end: whether it has to be sample, whether it has to be census, whether it has to be done in the middle of the stage or at the end of the stage. Because an evaluation does not aim to put barriers to students; that is not the objective of the diagnostic evaluations that we defend. Evaluations are an instrument at the service of the system in order to be able to act on those elements that do not work and on those that, being especially effective, need to be extended to the whole system; to be efficient and to be sure that the policies we apply are the best to increase quality; to be able to help those who need it most; to inform families, because parents, as the primary guardians of their children's education, have the right to know the educational model and the educational centre to which they come, and whether it is in line with their interests and expectations. Let us think of something very basic, ladies and gentlemen; let us think of financing. The education system is supported by all Spaniards and, therefore, we must ensure that the system is efficient. For many days we have been discussing funding in this House, in the Education Committee itself. Of course, it is important to invest in education, but unfortunately we are witnessing that investment in education has not been accompanied by an improvement in results. Between 2000 and 2010, investment in education doubled in Spain and this was not accompanied by an improvement in results. Before this data is evident the lack of efficiency of the system or the misapplication of public resources, and this is also detected by evaluations. Therefore, in order to ensure that the resources we allocate to the education system meet their objectives, we need to evaluate the policies adopted and the measures implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, what would some of you do without clinging to the politics of confrontation? In a moment and in a framework of dialogue and consensus it would be more useful for everyone if they made a proposal, if they had something to contribute, because despite some interventions in this House, it is not so much what separates us. In fact, mostly it is much more that unites us, and proof of that is that, when we have been able to move from our initial positions, we have achieved the agreement. There is a popular saying that he who does not trust is not reliable, and some of his lordships should apply it to him. We trust, because we act with loyalty and rigor, and we expect the same loyalty and rigor in some of you. During these days I have been reviewing how positions have changed, and I am going to refer to the Socialist Group. The Socialist Group has had governmental responsibilities and has responsibilities in the management of education in different autonomous communities and this position has varied over time, from a no to assessments to a position of offer of pact and dialogue a few years ago, where there was talk of sample evaluations, of general evaluation of the education system, of assessment of 2nd and 4th, at the end of 6th, to the end of 4th of secondary school. That is to say, we have all moved from our positions precisely in defence of that general interest and would therefore invite the rest of your ladies and gentlemen to withdraw from certain complexes, because the search for agreements is necessary and does not imply that everyone has to give up entirely their legitimate approaches and ambitions. For us, the culture of evaluation - I said earlier - is extremely important, but it is also important that this evaluation strengthens, for example, the truncality and the requirement of a common level for all pupils. We cannot endorse it, we do not agree with that Spain of different speeds in the field of education. He referred earlier to the recent PISA results. Well, that culture of evaluation is the one that has made it possible to demystify certain systems and to bring down some other discourse, because the reality is that it is and there are certain autonomous communities that with the same educational system and within the scope of their competences have seen better results and others, no. Mr Matute, the Basque Country needs a lot, among other things, to improve its educational system, because it is truly blushing that its results have worsened. In science and reading, for example, they are not only below the national average, but they are below the average in OECD countries and they also have two autonomous communities, Castile and León, which surpasses them by 31 points in reading, and Navarre, which surpasses them by 26 points in mathematics and science, are behind you in all autonomous communities. They would do well - I would also like to note that Mr Agirretxea - to compare the educational systems of other autonomous communities, how they effectively apply management and how certain purely ideological interests stand in defense of the interest of the student. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. From next January we will start working on the subcommission that must promote the achievement of the state pact for education. Frankly, I regret that some of you have shown your letters today; I regret that some of your lordships are settled in the most absolute radicalism, in the topics so handled between the public and the private, the confessional and the non-confessional. By the way, gentlemen of Podemos, the evaluation tests contemplated by Lomce and contemplated by this decree are not done by external companies, but by the teachers, the management teams, the protagonists of the education system. I think they do little favor to themselves and to those they claim to represent, because their speech has become absolutely outdated. I invite you all to be able to work, as I said before, with loyalty, with responsibility and, with generosity in the search for what has to worry us all, which is the general interest of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the last item on the agenda, on proposals for the creation of subcommittees. In particular, the proposal of the Equality Commission for the creation of a subcommission for a State Pact on Gender Violence and the proposal of the Education and Sport Commission for the creation of a subcommission for the elaboration of a major social and political pact for education. Can they be understood to be approved by consent? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the proposals were adopted. In two minutes we'll vote on the royal decree-law. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the vote, we shall proceed, by the first secretary, to the reading of the institutional declaration on Rábida. Go ahead, secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u219	Thank you, President. Institutional Declaration on Rábida. At the last Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and Government, held in Cartagena de Indias on 28 and 29 October, "the effort made by La Rábida over the past few years to maintain the bonds of cooperation between members of the Ibero-American community" was recognized, while it is urged to follow this line, "fundamentally in the areas of culture, education and the environment for the benefit of that community". In 1999, and following the agreement of both Houses of these General Courts, La Rábida was designated at the Havana Summit as a meeting place for meetings, conferences and seminars that foster collaboration and knowledge among the countries of our community. [[in Palos de la Frontera, Huelva]] To this day, institutions such as the Ibero-American headquarters of the International University of Andalusia or events such as the Ibero-American Film Festival, which have been working for decades to promote our culture and education, reflect the active role of La Rábida and the so-called Colombian places - Palos de la Frontera, Moguer, San Juan del Puerto and the capital of Huelva itself - in a permanent commitment of dissemination and cooperation that transcends the historical meaning of these places recognized as a good of cultural interest by the Junta de Andalucia and whose protagonists had universal reach. On the occasion of the commemoration in 2017 of that meeting and of having completed the Ibero-American summits its XXV years, the Provincial Council of Huelva, in collaboration with the autonomous and state administrations, plans to carry out an extensive programming of activities called Huelva 525. Encounter between worlds. They have already been joined by the Ibero-American General Secretariat, as well as the representations of various Ibero-American countries that recognize La Rábida as a strategic value in the construction of our Ibero-American community of nations. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies expresses its support for the activities of Huelva 525. I meet between two worlds and declare the interest they will have for the international community and particularly the Ibero-American community, while encouraging the various institutions, administrations and civil society to participate in them and in the promotion of reciprocal relations that, through interculturality, strengthen the ties between our peoples. Congress of Deputies. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u220	We will begin the vote of the Royal Decree-Law 5/2016, of 9 December, of urgent measures for the extension of the timetable for the implementation of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, for the improvement of the educational quality. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 250 plus 2 telematics votes, 252; against, 18; abstentions, 67.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u221	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] Having requested that the royal decree-law be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure, we now proceed to its vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; 89; 247 plus 2 telematics votes, 249.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-21-CD161221.u222	It is rejected as a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you, on behalf of all the members of the Bureau, a Merry Christmas and the best for all of you and your families in 2017. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was two and five in the afternoon.
