ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the inclusion in the agenda of a new paragraph on proposals for the creation of subcommissions to deal with the proposal of the Equality Commission for the creation of a subcommission within it for a state pact on gender-based violence and the proposal of the Education and Sport Commission for the creation of a subcommission within it for the elaboration of a major social and political state pact for education. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The inclusion in the agenda of the reference paragraph is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u2	We begin with the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, repealing the Organic Law 15/2015, of 16 October, reforming the Organic Law 2/1979, of 3 October, of the Constitutional Court for the implementation of the resolutions of the Constitutional Court as a guarantee of the rule of law, which will be discussed cumulatively with the proposed organic law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, reforming the Organic Law 2/1979, of 3 October, of the Constitutional Court. [[of the United Nations]] For the presentation of their respective initiatives, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we shall be talking about democracy. Today we are going to talk about the freedom of expression of elected officials in the exercise of their functions, we are going to talk about the separation of powers and, ultimately, the rule of law. To begin with, I would like to point out that the first proposed law presented by the Democratic Party in this House, the first proposed law of this legislature, goes precisely on this, on democratic quality and repeal the reform of the Law of the Constitutional Court, approved to the race by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and in solitary confinement during the 10th Legislature. It is a pride and an honor for me to demonstrate the commitment of our political force to democratic quality, because this goes from democracy. I do not hide from you that we are very pleased that an initiative that relieves the pressure of this law for the constitutional body, already very well-known in terms of its politicization and its lack of impartiality, an initiative that allows us to start working so that one day this court will recover what is its essence: to be an arbitral body in the interpretation of the legal norms and of their unconstitutionality or not. We are the promoters, promoters and guarantors of this derogation. As I told you, with the adoption of Law 15/2015, on the reform of the Constitutional Court Act, the People's Group in Congress set up a courthouse and has discredited it, because of its politicization, granting it an excess of power that allows it to impose coercive fines, to agree on the suspension of authorities and officials and, in addition, to entrust the Government with the execution of its sentences. There's nothing there. Critics of this reform of organic law have been virtually unanimous, both for formal and substantive reasons, from the opposition groups at the time in this House to professionals in the world of law, including Professor Rubio Llorente, who claimed that such reform was such a political burden on the Constitutional Court that it would eventually crush it. You have converted the Constitutional Court into a judicial and criminal court; do not be surprised, then, that the Spanish Constitution is perceived, de facto, as a penal code. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, whether in 1978, in the campaign itself, the referendum that was held explaining that a constitutional text guaranteeing freedoms, guaranteeing fundamental rights, a framework of freedom, in short, builder and architect of democracy, had been explained that a few years later this court would serve for an elected office to go to prison for putting the ballots or that anyone who allows a debate in parliamentary office could go to prison, surely at least in Catalonia the Constitution would have had no support because more than a space of freedoms the Constitution would have been perceived as the eighth fundamental law of Francoism. You - and you know it, but it doesn't matter - passed in solitary a reform of the law of the Constitutional Court that violates the balance of powers and legitimacy of a composite State such as the Spanish State. And what's the reason? Why did the People's Party government implement this reform? Undoubtedly, it was articulated in view of the fact that the democratic process in Catalonia is institutionally sound, endorsed by the majority of Parliament and has great social support. They carried out an ad hoc reform dedicated to the Catalan process, as the spokesman of the majority group, Mr Hernando, rightly argued, by saying: While the current regulation of the Constitutional Court contains the general principles to ensure the effectiveness of its resolutions, the need to adapt to the new situations - read the situation in Catalonia - obliges to develop the necessary instruments to ensure that the guarantee of effectiveness is real. Thus the Government of the State, installed in its inability to give a democratic answer to a political question, sees as the only possible way out to put at its service all the legal instruments at its disposal to stop the democratic process that is being lived in Catalonia. To this end, he does not hesitate to grant an excess of power, as he told them, to the Constitutional, enabling him to suspend his duties and expressly to the elected posts, including the President of the Generalitat, and to the President of the Parliament, without the mandatory judicial control, contradictory and disrespectful to the rights of the defence. With the reform the State Government seeks a path of self-legitimization to stop the implementation of the so-called road map of the sovereignist process and, of course, to achieve it at zero cost, zero political cost and zero international wear. Objective: To develop a fictional narrative presenting the Spanish-Cataluña confrontation not as a clash between different democratic legitimacys, but as an act of defiance by Catalonia of legality and the rule of law. For this purpose, it makes the TC in its executing arm, in its agent, approving without anyone requesting it by the emergency route, without passing through any presentation or by the Commission, therefore, without parliamentary debate, and only with its votes, the reform of one of the laws that should be the backbone of the democratic system. There is no doubt that the separation of powers will be missed and that the Constitutional has executive and sanctioning powers, creating a rapid way of intervention and ad hoc judicial action for Catalonia, along the lines of politics, because everything is worth it if it is to stop the democratic process in Catalonia. This is a real disaster for the constitutional architecture of the State, since the approved text alters, and in a very serious way, the play of balances and counterweights between the powers of the State. You have made yourself to measure the judicial power to block the legislative power of Catalonia. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, know perfectly well that the Government already has the means to ensure the implementation of resolutions in its case and, in fact, has used them, you have not hesitated to activate the Office of the State Prosecutor against President Mas, against the President of Parliament, Mrs Forcadell, or against the Member himself, Mr Homs, here, for alleged crimes of disobedience by putting ballots or by allowing parliamentary debate. What's the matter, then? That the Government considers them too slow and, moreover, unpredictable. They would be too loud to the citizenry and even to the international community to be activated to prosecute an elected office for actions endorsed in any democracy that is worthy of being so. That is why it decides to orchestrate a tailor-made legislative amendment in order, as I said, to present Catalonia as a challenger of the current law. Conclusion: The court ceases to perform its constitutionally mandated role as an arbitrator who interprets the rules in order to assume its political role through the judicial response. For this reason they grant him an excess of power that makes him an executing body of his own judgments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, in the light of what has been said and heard your constant appeals for dialogue, we sincerely believe that it is you who should have proposed this derogation. On the other hand, not only are they going to oppose the processing of this derogation, but this very morning the State Advocate, the Aranzadi brigade of Doña Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, who one day promised dialogue and imaginative solutions for the Catalan discussion, has notified the president and the members of the Bureau of the Parliament that they authorized the debate in plenary of the initiation of criminal proceedings precisely for exercising the freedom of expression in the exercise of their political positions for which they were democratically chosen. Since when in the Parliament of Catalonia can one speak, for example, of the independence of the Saharan people, but not of the independence of Catalonia? Why can't we discuss in Parliament's plenary what can be discussed on the street? What kind of state are you turning the Spanish state into? Does it really surprise you that we are ashamed that you have even distorted constitutional jurisprudence and turned Parliament into a place where you can talk about everything, unless you are serious? Are you really surprised that we want to make our own way? I take this opportunity - and I conclude, Madam President - to tell you from the floor of the Congress of Deputies, with the utmost solemnity of which I am capable and with the utmost respect to the House, to you and to the international community, that my party, the Democratic Party, is fully committed to the road map drawn up by the Government to follow the mandate given to it by the people of Catalonia on 27 September 2015. We are fully committed to building an independent state for Catalonia, within the European Union, only by democratic means and even to its detriment. Referendum or referendum. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u4	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u5	Good afternoon. Not content with the People's Party having guaranteed with the system of election and composition of the Constitutional Court that it always fails in favour of the Spanish Government in turn, through the reform that took place in 2015 it intended to have more instruments to continue to respond judicially to a conflict that is of a political nature, such as Catalan. In his quest to bring the laws into line with his political objectives, and in all light anti-democratic, no matter how much we are presented as the most faithful of the defenders of the law, the fact is that his attitude, a negationist and imposing attitude, has led him to an escalation in which it seems that everything is valid to achieve his objectives. It is such the anti-democratic obsession of the PP that came with this reform to give the Constitutional Court a series of functions that the Constitution itself - which defends above all and above all - does not even contemplate. This is because the aim is not to comply with the law, not to be deceived; it is not the defence of democracy, even if we are told so, it is to ensure that things do not move, that they remain as they are, even if these, the things that are wanted to change, respond to the democratic mandate of the citizenry, the depositary of the right to decide its future, the recognition of it by the Spanish legal system or not to do so. As strong advocates that the majority of the democratically expressed population should prevail above all and, in the event that the popular decision collides with the legal order, it must be modified and appropriate in the attention to the society to which it serves, we will support the initiatives of repeal that are presented to us, because we understand that legality cannot be used as a prison for the peoples who want to own their future and because we are already witnessing too many spurious episodes, such as the detention for exercising the right of free expression of the members of the CUP, the prosecution for fulfilling a democratic mandate in the case of the President of the Catalan Parliament or the prosecution, among others, of the present, Mr Homs, for putting ballots for citizens to express themselves. I have mentioned three examples, but I could mention more. All these things that I have mentioned are democratic expressions that will have the unconditional support of Euskal Herria Bildu and to this we owe our vote today to the repeal of the reform that has been carried out, a reform that - I do not want to end without saying it - in addition to the persecution of independence, also seeks to condition political wills prior to any statutory reform in order to prevent it. That is not acceptable if the Spanish State is to be called a democratic State beyond words alone. I therefore reiterate our support for both the initiative presented by the PDECAT and the initiative presented by the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u7	Thank you very much, President. With the proposed law we present, it is proposed to move beyond the serious consequences that may arise in our political system and constitutional order from the implementation of the Organic Law 15/2015 and before they occur. As you know, the organic law basically confers on the Constitutional Court two coercive powers aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of its resolutions in the face of possible non-compliance, consisting in the suspension of authorities of all public authorities, including the legislatures, and the replacement of enforcement by the court itself and even requiring the Government of the State to take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with its resolutions. As you also know, the Constitutional Court decided on 13 November last the appeal of unconstitutionality submitted by the Basque Government declaring its constitutionality, pending an identical appeal by the Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, as well as the opinion of the Venice Commission, attached to the Council of Europe, which visited Spain and this House last spring in response to complaints lodged against the reform of the Constitutional Court affected by the Organic Law 15/2015. However, the fact that there has been an estimated judgement on the law does not preclude this debate on the repeal of this reform from taking place because of the serious consequences that its implementation will entail for our constitutional system and that the particular votes give us an account of it, largely taking into account what has already been expressed by the Basque Government in its appeal, consequences in which the ruling of the majority part of the court did not want to enter under the argument that its constitutionality will be seen when the law is applied, arguing the abstract nature of the constitutionality control of the laws. That is to say, the constitutionality of the acts of enforcement of coercive measures against the public authorities by the court remains unjudged, is sub judicious. The court has not wanted to enter into this reform and these are the measures to be taken in the so-called Catalan process. The reform of the law is intended to be neutral, without taking into account the persons to whom they are directed and their coercive measures, and to this end the court hides itself after an abstract trial of the law saying something like this and we will see it when the time comes, as one of the particular votes says. We want to hide the context that justifies the law, the Catalan case, by delaying to the future the problems that its implementation entails. Moreover, these coercive measures of assurance are presented to us as a logical consequence, a quality inherent in any jurisdictional body to enforce its resolution, without repairing whether these specific measures are in accordance with the constitutional principles and fundamental rights of individuals and without repairing their impact on the delicate balance between the constituted powers. The reform is inserted, in the words of one of the particular votes, in the framework of norms that contain the principles and values of the legal-political organization of the State, such as the constitutional guarantees of punitive measures, producing a serious alteration of the system of balance of powers and affecting the State model of autonomy configured on political autonomy and separation of powers. In short, this law and its implementing measures take a step further on the road to judicializing processes that are eminently political, but with consequences of an unknown gravity so far, so that our judgment is obliged to repeal them. I would now like to recall that the law was imposed by the majority that the People's Party had in the 10th Legislature without having the other relevant political forces in the House. It was a bill in the drafters of the 10th Legislature whose consideration and debate took place on the same day when it was dealt with by the urgency procedure and without a more appropriate debate because of the special relevance and constitutional significance of the text. Entering into the content of Law 15/2015, the first coercive power of the court to ensure the effectiveness of its decisions is, as I have said, the suspension of public authorities and public officials of all public authorities, including the Legislative Chambers, as evidenced by the legal basis ten of the judgment. This new power of suspension, even of the authorities of this House, alters the balance and constitutional play of counterweights with the rest of the state's powers. The Constituent Power - it is obvious - did not want to hand over to the Constitutional Court powers to prosecute and suspend the holders of the constitutional and higher organs of the autonomous communities for legal or constitutional infringement. This is a constitutional power that falls to ordinary justice through a criminal process with all the guarantees and, in the case of the Chambers of Parliament, subject to their authorization for the prosecution of one of its members. Are we aware of the constitutional implications that suspension would have without through criminal proceedings by authorities whose legitimacy comes directly or indirectly from the ballot box? The parliamentary inviolability referred to in articles 66.3 and 71 of the Constitution and concordant precepts of the statutes of autonomy for its legislative chambers would be affected. The fundamental right to public office, article 23 of the Constitution, would also be affected in the case of executive authorities; and in both cases, parliamentary authorities and executive authorities, the measure of suspension in their positions has a clear punitive content that must respect the formal and material guarantees that, as fundamental rights, the Constitution and the European Charter of Human Rights provide for the exercise of sanctioning power and that this law does not respect: guarantees of legality, proportionality, motivation, instrumentality, force, jurisdiction, provisionality, impugned character and - very important - double instance, among others. These guarantees are required by the principle of criminal legality in article 25 of the Constitution and article 6 of the European Charter of Human Rights. Finally, if any authority is suspended because Organic Law 15/2015 has not been repealed before, it will surely bring its case to the European Court of Human Rights for breach of the principle of criminal law in article 6 of its letter. And if such a violation of the European Charter of Human Rights is confirmed - as we certainly believe will happen - the current regulation of this law, which allows the suspension of functions of the authorities, should disappear or transform the Constitutional Court into a criminal court for these cases, articulating a material and procedural regulation respectful of the principle of criminal legality and with the double instance; a genuine legal and political hecatomb that we are in time to avoid. There is no doubt that the suspension of duties to the authorities of the Legislature and the Executive is a punitive mechanism to double the unfulfilled will by the suspension of duties and it cannot be argued that the suspension of duties is a personal precautionary measure for the assurance of an enforcement measure, since it does not augur for the effectiveness of any future pronouncement, because it has already occurred. Therefore, it cannot be a precautionary measure, nor can it be a measure of enforcement known in our procedural legal system, nor in any of the systems in our environment endowed with constitutional jurisdiction, nor has it ever been applied for the enforcement of constitutional resolutions. The suspension of office of authorities and officials is undoubtedly a punitive measure. It follows from the doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights and from the so-called Engels rules of the genesis of the reform of this law itself. Moreover, in our legal system the suspension of duties has always been considered as an administrative or criminal disciplinary measure before the commission of crimes and never as a means of execution. The second coercive power conferred on the court by the organic law consists in the replacement by the court itself of measures necessary to ensure the performance of its functions, even if it may seek the assistance of the Government of the State. This precept, like the previous treaty, alters the design and balances between the different constitutional organs, breaks the constitutional architecture by changing it, alters the constitutional model of control designed in article 155, which is a crucial aspect of the Constitution itself. A judge of the court itself in this judgment states: Article 155 sets out the entire Constitution and the relationship between the central and peripheral powers of the State, closing the most far-reaching political decision of those provided for in the Constitution. The replacement execution attributed to the court to enforce its decisions overlaps and eliminates the constitutional space of article 155. Both mechanisms, 155 and that provided for in this reform, in this law, have identical assumptions, the same consequences and the same procedure, and differ in their active subject, in their actor. For article 155, the Government and the absolute majority of the Senate are political bodies, and in the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court the jurisdictional power, the Constitutional Court. Article 155 builds on the idea that political conflicts must be resolved in political forums, and the law, changing the Constitution, decides that such a conflict must be resolved through the judicialization of the state reaction. The organic law alters the constitutional design in a particularly delicate and transcendent decision by which the political problems of the first order must be addressed politically and by political organs and powers. Through article 155, the constituent power decided that these eventual political conflicts should be resolved in accordance with their very nature, essentially political, and through political and non-judicial mechanisms. They are problems with legal clothing and political body and, if they are to be addressed at their root and nature, they must be treated politically and not through their appearance, the legal one. The legal is the form, the political is the background. Ladies and gentlemen, the wrong words lead us to misconceptions and implausible approaches which only aggravate the issue we are trying to tackle. In the same lane, the other reform, the Organic Law 12/2015, of which we also propose its amendment, introduces the previous remedy of unconstitutionality in the process of drawing up the statutes. The emergence of the Constitutional Court inevitably implies its politicization, while the judicialization of the parliamentary political process. It de facto converts the court into a third parliamentary chamber, the positive legislator through its guiding and binding interpretations for the future action of Parliament and, at the same time, judicializes politics. Legitimization to appeal on a preliminary basis and during the drafting of a statutory text makes an agreement adopted by the majority available to a parliamentary minority. The CT inevitably becomes an arbitrator of the political disagreement that occurred during the court proceedings. The prior control of constitutionality disturbs both the normal course of legislative procedure and distorts the constitutional justice project, which with regard to the territorial distribution of power was a restorative and a posteriori control, making it a prior and preventive control. That is why we say without fear of being mistaken that the previous remedy is an instrument of prior obstruction with disruptive effects on the functioning of the political system, in fact a genuine political veto. This was the case when in the past the previous appeal was in force in the Spanish legal system. It generated undocumented distortions in the democratic political game by replacing the policy of consensus and compromise with the legal shortcut, and also generated wide distortions in the Constitutional Court itself. What is sought, then, with the recovery of the previous resource of the statutory reform projects? Again, that certain expressions of will, through representative democracy, the Legislative Chambers, direct democracy and the referendum of ratification, do not find a channel of expression. I'm finishing up, President. Let's get this straight. We are faced with political problems, and let us not use the legal and the judicial to prevent their approach, but to prevent the derailed politics and, in the face of these organic laws, they are only one more scaffolding, which stimulate and do not address serious problems, which make politics more and more ingestible, in their own terms and nature. In particular, Law 15/2015 stimulates and obliges not to continue to address in political terms what is political, because it places the Constitutional Court at a level of subordination to the Government. The Government has the power to excite the execution incident and the court cannot refrain from executing its powers of substitution or suspension. The court is thus bound to the strategies of the Government, a case of a book of instrumentalization of a jurisdictional body for the political interests of the Government, through a will of a constitutional mutation of the functionality of article 155, leaving it without space and condemning it to its practice inapplicability, due to the reforms introduced by Law 15/2015. Ladies and gentlemen, as the British say, and from this you know something, if you want to get out of a hole, the first thing is to stop digging. And following this recommendation, I conclude by proposing the amendment of both organic laws in the sense presented. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u8	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u9	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment of the Organic Law 15/2015, the Constitutional Court became the executioner of democracy, a reform to allow the Constitutional Court and subsidiaryly the Government of the State to act criminally against the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, the members of the Bureau of Parliament, President Puigdemont or Vice President Junqueras and the rest of the members of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. We said that at the time when it was voted and adopted at the end of the 10th Legislature, because we were already seeing the effects of the reform; that is, we said that this would end as it is now, that they would end up quoting to declare to the President or President of the Parliament of Catalonia, to the members of the Government of Catalonia and to the members of the Bureau. The fact that they are accused is to avoid the suspension of the Constitutional Court and to allow the Parliament of Catalonia to do what is right for any Parliament, which is to be parliamentary, to speak, to debate, to dialogue, what you now, the People's Party, want to do. For us, Catalan Republicans and Republicans curiously, the amendment of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court led us to a historic moment again. It reminds us of the Law of Jurisdictions of the years 1905-1906, which was promoted by the government of the then president Segismundo Moret. If you recall, this law allowed the military to judge everything they considered to be against the unity of the Spanish State or against themselves. This law, despite its approval, was rejected by the entire opposition and by intellectuals of the size of Miguel de Unamuno. This law allowed a military court to become the executive arm of the Government. From this law arose a unitary movement, Solidaritat Catalana, which brought together different political tendencies. History usually helps us to interpret the present and prepare for the future, I say so so that they take note. This clearly contrary to the rule of law of the 1906 Government is the spirit that they recovered in order to curb the process of Catalan independence. One hundred and ten years later, we find a new legal aberration, a law that symbolizes an involution. Today we are debating the repeal of this law. It is no longer the military who become the executive's executing arm. It is an institution as politicized and delegitimized as the current Constitutional Court that takes over. The separation of powers has been broken. They use the Constitutional Court to their liking, in this case the Government of the Spanish State, either to automatically suspend autonomous laws when they do not respond to their ideological convictions or do not like them because they represent greater self-government, or to judge the President of the Parliament of Catalonia. They seek to trample upon the majority will - I repeat, the majority will - of the citizens of Catalonia, as expressed in the ballot box, believing that the law gives them the right. But the reality is that you, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, have already lost all legitimacy. A great majority of citizens of Catalonia - and I repeat, a great majority of citizens of Catalonia - although they do not like to be told, they have ceased to fear. That is why we consider that we are already winning, because democracy too, whether they like it or not, is unbeatable. I want to insist on something they don't like to hear either. They won't be able to bend us. They won't be able to bend a town that only wants to remain what it is. They're trying to teach us lessons and in Republican Left we're not gonna tolerate it. We have told you on many occasions: we will not accept it. We will not abide by unjust laws, because every act of disobedience is an act of freedom, it is the principle of reason, when a law is not legitimate. In recent years, the Constitutional Court has gone from being the highest interpreter of the Constitution, by prosecuting laws under strictly legal criteria, to being a fully politicized body, presided over by a militant of the People's Party at the service of the Spanish Executive, against the autonomy and right to decide of Catalans and Catalans. With the reform we want to repeal today, they have made the Constitutional Court a contentious body. They diverted him from his real function. They distorted their legal nature. They turned him into one more chamber of the Supreme Court. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana opposed the reform made expressly against Catalonia. It's not the only law that was made thinking about what was going on in Catalonia. I remind you of some more, such as the Organic Act on Terrorist Crimes. The Organic Law of the Constitutional Court only intended to disqualify and fine persons who could declare or proclaim independence without even guaranteeing them effective judicial protection, such as the President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell. It is the custom law, ad hoc, for the sole purpose of masking a political situation as legal. And it is that, I repeat, the citizens of Catalonia have the right to decide their future, and that is how it has been expressed in a majority. You have the right to decide your future and we have the right to say absolutely everything. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to decide on the part of the peoples, what makes you laugh and ridicule, is far more powerful than all the legal arguments that can be invented by a government stained by corruption and a Constitutional Court questioned in all its functions, so that I refer again to the democratic will that the Catalans and the Catalans, in a majority, have expressed in the ballot box. You should ask yourself, as democrats you are, what you intend to do, how you want to act if you are democrats or something else. I conclude by saying that, whatever the Constitutional Court says and whatever the Constitutional Court does, we will obey the democratic mandate of the citizens of Catalonia; the majority democratic mandate of the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, referendum or referendum. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u10	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u11	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to debate the proposal of the Joint Group to repeal Organic Law 15/2015, and that of the Basque Group on the reform of Organic Law 2/1979, which seek, as you know, to eliminate the executive functions of the Constitutional Court in both cases and, in the second case, to repeal the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for the statutes. With regard to the first point, we should recall that the Basque Government lodged an appeal on unconstitutionality against Organic Law 15/2015, on the basis that the legislative amendment granted a number of enforcement mechanisms to the high court, which, he said, altered its constitutional configuration and distorted it, placing constitutional jurisdiction above the other constitutional bodies, according to them. It supported the violation of other constitutional requirements, such as the principle of criminal legality, the regime of hazing provided for not in the Constitution, because it is in the statutes, but in the block of constitutionality, and the principle of political autonomy of the autonomous communities. The truth is that on 3 November 2016, the Constitutional Court issued a ruling on this appeal in order to confirm the constitutionality of the powers assigned to this court, establishing that they were within the powers that the legislator could recognize them and that it did not distort the constitutional justice model established by the Constitution. It was also clarified that the power to suspend charges and public authorities in the event of non-compliance with their judgements could not be considered a sanction, but a measure - I quote - to facilitate the full implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, by removing those who impede their due observance. This point is particularly important. In the light of this same argument, it does not seem appropriate to proceed with its repeal. In other countries, such as Austria and Germany, the Constitutional Court has similar enforcement powers without any problems. Therefore, we are going to the most political and less legal background of the case: who can be concerned about the executive agility of the Constitutional Court's rulings? Who, in the end, can worry about the sentences being served? It seems obvious that, from the outset, the person who has declared - in case anyone had any doubts about it - that he does not intend to comply with these judgments, to those who contradicted the policy of faits accompli. Let me remind you that with the votes of Junts pel Yes, that is, of the representatives of the formations that have spoken here, plus those of the CUP in the Parliament of Catalonia - that is, the representatives of 72 of the 135 deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia - a solemn declaration of disconnection was made last year, where it was said - I quote - that disconnection will not be subject to the decisions of the institutions of the State, in particular those of the Constitutional Court. If this is not the announcement of the decision to disobey, to disobey the Constitutional Court, let God come down and see him. Or did you not declare the Constitutional Court to be delegitimized and without jurisdiction? What happened in November last year is serious, it is very important, and without that we have not just understood what we have actually come to discuss here, at least in the part concerning this intended reform. What happened is that with a majority that does not even give them to reform the statute - the majority that approved this declaration is not enough in the Catalan Parliament to reform the Catalan Statute -, with that small majority, 72 vs. 63, broke with the Spanish legality in a formal and solemn act advocating for disobedience to the Constitutional Court. What you want is to defuse the Constitutional, let us not go into a lot of legal nuances because the thing is obvious. And the legal hue is not the worst, with the legal hue we could entertain ourselves here for a while, is that there is something bolder. They began by saying that we came to talk about the rule of law and democracy. By the way, you insist in that statement last year, in November 2015, on the Catalan Government, by the way, to comply only with the laws emanating from the Parliament of Catalonia, which is by the way a power of the State, in case you did not know. Yes, they do! Of course they do! And where do you think the powers of the state come from? National sovereignty, which resides in the Spanish people, as anyone who has begun to read the Constitution knows because it is in its article 1.2. You ignore the abecé - or you make it look like you ignore it - and then you give lessons. You have arrogated yourself the power to establish what is or is not democratic, without any other criterion than some kind of illumination of the elect. You are anointed ones and your word is the law, as the run says, and your word is the law, as Carl Schmitt says, which is worse. Legal decision-making is called that. In the unfinished debate between Carl Schmitt and Hans Kelsen you have chosen the first. Yes, gentlemen, you have chosen the first one. The debate on the guardian of the Constitution was finally reduced to whether that role had to be held by the plebiscite leader legitimately or a court of law. For us the option is a court of law, the option is Kelsen, because the other seems to us, first of all, dangerous, especially because it leaves in the hands of the one who has the power at a given time to establish when there is a point of inflection in history that justifies the interpretation, twisting, twisting of any rule until it fits with a decision previously made. With regard to the PNV proposal, the repeal of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality, I will be much shorter. The reform of the Organic Law 12/2015 allows, after we have been many years without that possibility - since 1985, I think I recall - that proposals for reform of statutes that have been approved by the Courts but have not yet been voted on in a referendum be challenged before the Constitutional. The intention is obvious: to avoid what we have all experienced on the other hand, and in particular the Catalans, which is a clash of legitimacy. There is not much to be taught or much to go into the theory, when we all know what happens when a text that has passed through a referendum and that comes into force is four years under the consideration of the Constitutional Court, before deciding on its constitutionality. What happens is that logically there is a tremendous clash of legitimacy and it seems to us that it can only be qualified as a good idea that this does not happen again. It seems to us to be pure logic and common sense, because one of the things that characterizes the law is logic. The criticisms made of this remedy at last accusing it of distorting the model of constitutional justice do not seem to us to make much sense and in fact, even though it was not provided for in the Constitution itself, it was from the very beginning of the constitutional stage, from 1979 to 1985. It seems to us that this is an opportune moment, more than anything for the lesson learned. The right is not only theory, it is not only white over black or black over white on a paper, but it is also avoiding what we have found to be not working and putting the means and remedies for things to happen in the least conflictive way possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u12	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a debate that is actually new but not too new, it is an old debate, it is a debate that we had - some of you may remember - in this House in 1985. In 1985, the Constitutional Court ruled that this House had done well by annulling the previous appeal of unconstitutionality. When he did, a member of his group, who was then called the People's Alliance, uttered a famous historical phrase: What a damn sentence! Thirty years later, his son, Alberto Ruiz Gallardón, who was then Minister of Justice, prepared revenge, which was to return the Constitutional Court to Spain in Cuentame and, as he was not very sure what he was doing, presented it not as a draft law of the Government, but as a proposal for a law of his parliamentary group and by way of extraordinary urgency. He did so, first of all, in order to save himself the reports of the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary because he certainly did not expect them to be in his favour. Not only that, he did so, and Mr Xavier García Albiol presented it in this House, who is not known either for being a congressman or for being an illustrious constitutionalist, because at the time he was in an election campaign to the Parliament of Catalonia. What you were doing at the time was twisting, twisting the reform of an organ that has to ensure the harmony of the powers of the State to use it as an electoral tool. Basically, Mr. García Albiol, with that subtlety that characterizes him, summed it up by saying: The joke is over. When the joke was over, it was: we are prepared to pass by absolute majority a reform of the Constitutional Court that ceases to be an organ that mediates between the powers and becomes a chastisement. With this introduction you will imagine what the meaning of our vote is. We are going to support the two proposals to repeal its last two reforms of the Constitutional Court, first of all the reform which grants it extra powers of sanction or suspension to public authorities or public workers. You, by approving it, introduced a coercion factor that skips the controls that our Constitution provides for. They know that our Constitution, in article 155, provides that for such a measure, it is necessary to consult with the president of the autonomous community and pass it through the Senate. You decided that these controls were no longer necessary, that a direct sanction by the Constitutional Court was sufficient. In addition, they include a sanction that is much less guaranteed than existing procedures. They promise to fine or even suspend or prosecute public representatives who are already subject to both the Criminal Code and the administrative disciplinary procedure. And then why add a third way? Very simple, because this third way does not give right to claims or remedies because it is a way that leaves in defense those who are punished by the Constitutional Court, Again, you try to use the Constitutional Court, which should serve for harmony between the powers in Spain, as a garrote. Secondly, the restoration of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality, which was in force from 1979 to 1985, was an attempt to treat the Autonomous Communities as if they were minors. Moreover, it is an attempt that is not provided for by our Constitution, not only because it threatens the separation of powers and the balances that the State has built of autonomy, not only because it erects the Constitutional Court above the legislative powers of the autonomous communities, but above all because of something much more serious: our Constitution, in article 161.1, recognizes the control of constitutionality, but recognizes it a posteriori, not before. Why do you recognize him a posteriori? Article 161 states that remedies of unconstitutionality may be brought against laws and rules with force of law. You know that a statute of autonomy, especially of nations without a State, only takes the force of law when it has passed through a referendum. It does not have the force of law when it has left Parliament, it does not have the force of law when it has been passed in the Congress of Deputies, it has the force of law only when it has been endorsed by the citizenry; this is the joke with which Mr Albiol wanted to end, therefore the previous recourse of unconstitutionality, in order to try to avoid the possibility of consulting the citizenry in referendum, which is what you are afraid of. Since they have no country proposal that recognizes and articulates plurinationality, they only think of strengthening the garrote, preventing the vote and trying to treat the autonomous communities as minors with a Constitutional Court set up in a court against Catalonia. [[Applauds]] In fact, the Constitutional Court itself has asked you not to use it to resolve judicially what you do not know how to solve politically. The Constitutional Court has already repeatedly called for respect for the functions assigned to it by the Constitution. In its ruling of March 2014, a ruling against the declaration of sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia, already said: The problems arising from the will of a part of the State to alter its legal status cannot be resolved by this court, whose function is to ensure strict compliance with the Constitution. That is why the public authorities, and in particular the territorial authorities that make up our autonomous State, are called upon to resolve, through dialogue and cooperation, the problems that arise in this area. The Constitutional Court itself was saying to them: if you do not have political solutions, do not try to pass them through the scope of the judicialization of politics, find political solutions to what are political problems, do not be afraid of the ballot box, do not charge us with the Constitutional Court and the other courts with the problems that you are unable to solve. And it is that in this of the reform of the Constitutional Court, as in the rest of your work with regard to the Spanish Constitution, you, who are called constitutionalists, are in fact a brigade of controlled demolition of the Spanish Constitution. With regard to preserving the autonomy of the municipalities, with regard to maintaining the social rights provided for in Title I of the Constitution, with regard to maintaining the guarantee of the separation of powers from the State and with regard to maintaining the State's balance of autonomy, you are tightening and demolishing the Constitution to force it into a narrower idea of Spain in which more and more people are left and more and more people are being driven away. I am aware that the reform of the Constitutional Court is designed, only and exclusively, against the democratic process in Catalonia, but, look, I am from Madrid. Mr. Girauta asked: who can be afraid of reforming the Constitutional Court if it is not someone who wants to disobey the instructions of the Constitutional Court? As a Spanish citizen, I want to have a Constitutional Court that guarantees me democracy and respect for rights. [[Applauds]] I know that you believe that by erecting the Constitutional Court in garrote against Catalonia you do some service to Spain, but in fact you do the opposite: you do not strengthen the Constitutional Court because you give it more strength but you take away prestige and, therefore, you make it a less legitimate court to be a computer and regulator of the relations between the different powers of the State; neither do you do any service to Spain, believe me. When you strengthen the idea of Spain, when you use the institutions of part, you support them and use them against autonomous communities, against entire peoples or against the desire for democracy of some countries of our plurinational State, what you are doing is strengthening the idea of Spain. I know that they are now negotiating a reform of the Constitution between schools. If that reform of the Constitution is reduced to a layer of varnish that does not enter into the shield of social rights, that does not recognize the plurinationality that can only be articulated from respect for the right to decide of peoples, that does not recognize the separation of powers and guarantees for citizens the effective exercise of their rights, you will be doing so by closing the constitutional debate falsely, with one difference: perhaps in the previous legislature you would have been able to close it falsely, but in this legislature we have the strength to ensure that, if you intend to close the constitutional debate falsely with a layer of varnish, we will not only see ourselves in this rostrum, we will see ourselves in the ballot box in a referendum of those that scare you so much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u14	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by proposing a law of reform by the urgent procedure and on a single reading aimed at showing strength in the elections of 27 September in Catalonia and one month before the call for general elections, the People's Group took up its absolute majority effectively and imposed, in October 2015, the adoption of the Organic Law 15/2015, reforming the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court entitled for the enforcement of resolutions as a guarantee of the rule of law. Nothing mattered to the People's Party to break in this way in full pre-election campaign in Catalonia and Spain as a whole; nothing mattered to it that the Code of Good Electoral Practice of the Council of Europe advised not to make reforms shortly before the elections; nothing mattered to it to circumvent the previous report of the Council of State; nothing mattered to it the opinion of the same Constitutional Court and nothing mattered to it the warnings of many constitutionalists about the very negative impact this new regulation would have on such a qualified rule of the bloc of constitutionality. A teacher of teachers such as the longed-for professor Francisco Rubio Llorente, quoted above, hastened to point out that this proposal was a regrettable and bad idea, since all that is to place burdens of political content on the Constitutional Court is bad for the Constitutional Court and is bad for Spain. None of this prompted the People's Group, however, to reconsider its position, nor the notorious fact that the reform was unnecessary since the organic law and the whole system already contained more than sufficient elements to ensure compliance with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. This was demonstrated by many constitutionalists and also by the particular votes of constitutional judges Adela Asúa, Fernando Valdés and Juan Antonio Xiol to the very recent unfortunate judgment 185/2016, said with respect to the majority of the court. A sentence to which Judge Asua referred in her vote - I quote literally -: We are facing a regrettable abdication in the exercise of the jurisdictional function for not having entered into the substance of the issues raised and for the lightness of its argumentation. Ladies and gentlemen, the unnecessity of this reform is also confirmed by the fact that no one, absolutely no one, asked from the academic doctrine or from the institutions for a reform of these characteristics in the course of nothing less than thirty-five years since the court began its course in 1981. If the different decisions issued by the court since before the reform were analysed, it is concluded that they were already perfectly enforceable, that the court had generally in article 92 the powers necessary to carry out the execution and to resolve the incidents arising therefrom, to impose coercive fines and to deduct any other liability. No, the reform has not come to strengthen these powers as you claim. On the contrary, it is certain powers added and expressly attributed to the Constitutional Court that create serious problems by distorting their position in the entire constitutional system. It is a question of having incorporated into our system within the framework of the Catalan conflict measures of state coercion such as the suspension in its functions of public authorities or employees for the breach of constitutional obligations or the replacement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, thus using this body as an executing arm, overlapping and circumventing the exceptional procedure provided for by the constituent in article 155. It was intended to exhibit apparent strength in the above-mentioned political context, assigning to the court responsibilities which are not its own and which are incumbent on other bodies, other public actors in the face of conflicts of this nature. Remember, as has been recalled here, how he effectively broke into the scene by presenting this reform in the purest style of the Far West, the candidate and chief electoral officer for the PP of Catalonia, Mr Albiol, to the cry of: the joke is over. Ladies and gentlemen, what a great irresponsibility this is! Let us hope, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that at that point you have learned that the problems arising from territorial tensions cannot be solved only through judicial mechanisms when they are a matter of profound pure political disputes, and even less by measures that distort and endanger the system of balances and counterweights of the powers and institutions of the State. What can be expected with this law already clearly said meridian again Professor Rubio Llorente and I quote literally: Cast on the Constitutional Court a political burden that will eventually crush it. With this unusual reform you have made it a pitiful and dangerous political use of law. The Constituent Council designed a Constitutional Court that focused exclusively on ensuring respect for the Constitution and the application of constitutional parameters, leaving the rest of the issues to the ordinary courts and other branches of the State, unlike other European Constitutional Courts such as the German or Austrian Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Guarantee Court of the Second Republic. In view of the scheme in force until the adoption of the law in which the Constitutional Court confined itself to establishing who and how to comply with its judgments, the suspension in its functions of a public authority or employee requires this body to carry out a double trial, the finding of non-compliance and the conduct of a trial of responsibility, which in itself constitutes the archetype of the trial that is carried out in a sanctioning process, a trial that can only be carried out by resorting to the parameters and principles of legality used in the application of jurisdictional authority by the courts and tribunals to which this function falls exclusively under article 117.3 of the Constitution. This provision distorts our constitutional system from different perspectives, impossible for me to explain them here now in detail, depending on the authority concerned by the suspension, in particular the authorities whose legitimacy comes directly or indirectly from the ballot boxes, not to mention the distortions that would also occur if they were judges and judges. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that the law does not adequately take into account the principle of effective judicial protection because, as the Constitutional Court is set up in the Constitution and in the organic law, it is not possible, that is, it prevents those affected from allowing some of the measures provided for under the new article 92 to be controlled by any other judicial body if we leave international bodies to safety. In the same vein it is clearly appreciable that the replacement execution provided for in article 92 incorporated into our system a measure that overlaps with the power of state coercion that the constituent itself expressly established in article 155, configured with an exceptional character and of closure of the system as a procedure applicable to the actions of the autonomous communities when there has been a breach of constitutional or legal obligations or seriously violates the general interest of Spain. Thus, the surprising thing is that a duplicity is introduced, that is, new mechanisms of state coercion applicable to the autonomous public authorities by an organ other than the constitutionally envisaged and apart from the political guarantee elements that the Constitution provides for for such an absolutely exceptional assumption. Remember the provisions of section 155, in fact, the first intervention of a request to the president of the autonomous community and, if there is no satisfactory response, there is a need for action by an absolute majority of the Senate, determining the measures to be implemented. With the reform they carried out of the organic law not only these elements are bordered, but in order to impose state coercion on the autonomous public authorities, another constitutional body is thus empowered, so that not only is the balance established by the constitutional norm broken, but it could also be perfectly said that what was then done by the organic legislator is to place itself in the position of the constituent power. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, and in line with what we have always advocated on this crucial issue, our group will vote in favour of the proposal for a law to reform the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court made by the Basque Parliamentary Group. However, we do not share, also for reasons of consistency, the part of this proposal relating to the repeal of Organic Law 12/2015, reforming the Organic Law of the Court which established the previous remedy of unconstitutionality. In this regard, we announce the presentation of the corresponding amendments in the event that they are taken into consideration. With regard to the one presented by the Joint Group, at the request of the Catalan Democratic Party, we announce the abstention of our group. Although the purpose of this initiative - we acknowledge this - is shared by the Socialist Group, we believe that the PNV proposal is technically more correct and has, from this point of view, a greater feasibility for its processing and approval as a law. I'm done. The People's Group must understand that we are not going against it, either from the Government or from any other group, but we are seeking to regain the consensus and balance that you broke with your absolute majority. We emphasize this with emphasis. In the process of the law we will seek the broadest possible understanding and covenant, as is required for the reform of such a transcendental norm of our bloc of constitutionality, precisely in order to strengthen our constitutional democracy. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u16	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u17	With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to position the People's Group on this bill to repeal the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, that of the Mixed Group and that of the PNV, which your ladies and gentlemen already know. Ladies and gentlemen, the repealing verb is common in both proposals and you will agree with me that it identifies your claims well. In any case, we cannot share these objectives. We have begun a phase of intense dialogue among all political forces, times of pact that mark the need for agreement. The verb abrogation is not on that playground. Derogation per se is not well understood in times where dialogue and concertation are needed more than ever. Mr Legarda, we are very satisfied with these regulatory reforms. They are good for Spain, because we understand that they strengthen the rule of law. That is what we believe, and that is why we started the reforms in their day. And Mrs. Ciuro, we can't repeal those laws we believe in. To this end, I would like to say that it is very good that the current regulation provides the Constitutional Court with the necessary instruments, similar to those that exist in other countries, so that it can ensure the effective implementation of its resolutions. This is not an electoral tool, Mr Errejón, it is a guarantee of rights and freedoms. To give executive title to the decisions of the Constitutional Court strengthens the safeguarding of constitutional principles; it is so simple. Personal notification to public authorities and employees facilitates the implementation of this title. The regulation of cases of non-compliance was necessary, it was clear. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of giving the Constitutional Court instruments so that it can have a number of precautionary measures - I insist, precautionary, non-punitive - sufficient to ensure compliance with its resolution. The spokespersons who are in favour of repealing this rule have insisted on the punitive feature. The Constitutional Court has already made it clear that they are not punitive but are measures of provisional suspension. I am very surprised by the position of the Socialist Group. Mr Chamber, I really appreciate your tone, because I think it has been good, but the background of your speech is totally wrong. I am very surprised by the position of the PSOE, because they say they will support the repeal of these reforms. And I say that I am surprised because the Socialist Party has participated in one of them by common accord. I think they have to explain why they want to step back in giving instruments to the Constitutional Court so that it can enforce its resolutions. I find it very difficult to understand that the Socialist Party does not dialogue with the People's Party on these issues which are of interest to Spain and that it does not do so before this debate so that we can articulate common positions. Anyway, of course we respect his speech, we think he's wrong, but we don't understand. We don't think it's time for a bandage. We are exploring great agreements for our country right now. If the PSOE falls back into the complexes that have convulsed it, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, we all take a step back in our country. The Socialist Party knows that this reform is fully constitutional because there is a very recent ruling, almost a month and a half ago, that supports the rule. Mr Chamber, even the rapporteurs who voted against, who were three, against eight who endorsed the rule, abide by the rule and the resolution and I am very surprised that you do not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the most responsible of the Socialist Party has again insisted this morning on the same thing. It said - I quote in text - that it is bad for a political tribunal to have its decisions as its executive title and that the rule was bad because it was not being applied. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, we must deal with these matters with measure, with reality and with responsibility, from the challenges that we have and those that our Constitution is facing and those to which it and the constitutional order, which you all know, are being subjected day by day. The Constitutional Court is the guarantor and defender of the Constitution. It is not a political court, but a constitutional court elected by the three branches of the State, whose mission is to defend the Constitution. And of course the reform is being implemented, of course it is being personally notified to public officials who make illegal decisions knowingly in order to hone the Constitution and the rule of law, of course these measures, Mr. Chamber, already have a deterrent effect against those who want to break the constitutional order; of course they are effective. What I have nothing clear about is why the Socialist Party does not share them once the Constitutional Court itself has declared in 185/2016 that the reform is fully legitimate and recalls that the constitutionality control of laws is legal and not political in nature. As I say, only a month and a half ago this sentence. It also clarifies that the Constitution constitutes the Constitutional Court as a genuine judicial body and therefore has the power to compel the enforcement of its decisions. Otherwise, the Constitution could not be guaranteed as the supreme norm of the State, as the law of laws, which is what it is. Thirty-eight years ago, all Spaniards committed themselves to making it that way, and of course we did very well and we have made great progress in our country. Let us continue on that path, on the path marked by the Constitutional Court. This sentence makes it very clear - I said it before - that the suspensions of public employees and civil servants are not punitive, but preventive and - eye! - that they will be lifted immediately when the unwilling will cease. Ladies and gentlemen, the one who does not go against the law, the one who obeys the law has nothing to fear, but obviously our system of law and our legal system sends a clear message to those who want to corrupt it. They have to face the consequences; that's what this is about. I would also like to make it clear that the judgment says something that has already been discussed here, that the planned replacement execution has nothing to do with Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. I would like to know what you do not agree with, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, with a judgment that is clear in all its terms. Of course, if we can help you change your position, here we are with our hand stretched out and offering you dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you also wrote Title IX of the Spanish Constitution. Don't fall for removing legitimacy from the Constitutional Court. Secessionist parties seek to remove legitimacy from the Constitutional Court; however, they have filed 58 appeals before the Constitutional Court. They celebrate if they are right, but they refuse the court when they are warned of the obligation to comply with the law. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PDC, Mrs Ciuro, I sincerely believe that this speech, far from wisdom and coherence, weakens them as political formation. The Spanish Government has proved to represent 7.5 million Catalans with loyalty, guaranteeing liquidity and helping in social policies and infrastructure without going into confrontation; however, the autonomous Government has limited itself to questioning the institutions and trying to break the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the PDC, the question that many of us are asking ourselves and that many people are asking in Catalonia is why you do not begin to question yourselves your own policies and to recover the public management services that you should never have abandoned and work for people and not for their political ends. Go back to the path of dialogue and it will be much better for you. Here and in all autonomous parliaments we have debated everything and we will continue to do it, each with its own idea and each with its own form. Here we have heard more constructive and less constructive proposals, but we have respected them all because it has to be. Mrs Ciuro says that ideas cannot be discussed, but you have just done so in this rostrum, Mrs Ciuro. I have heard the President of the Catalan Parliament say in recent days that political debate in any parliament cannot be prevented. No one has ever stopped him; he is not right. What cannot be done is to use the institutions to violate the constitutional order, because both are very different. As the Constitutional Court points out under the Constitution, autonomous parliaments enjoy the widest freedom for public exposure and defence of any ideological conceptions; moreover, they are privileged scenarios for public debate. However, the principle of parliamentary autonomy cannot go to the extreme that some parties want to arrogate their will to violate the constitutional order that underpins their own authority. This reform, ladies and gentlemen, gives a clear message. It is based on the principle of legality of article 9.3 of the Constitution. There's no impunity here, it's called whatever it is and whoever it is. Whoever goes against the law must answer for it. That is something of common sense, it is something intended in this reform, it is something that is intended by the legislator. Mr Legarda, this is no hecatombe, as you have said; this is what is happening in Europe, as the spokesman for Citizens has also told you. It happens in Austria or Germany, where there are the same powers as their constitutional courts. With regard to Act No. 12/2005 on the Prior Recourse, we clearly agree with it, because we defend its normative force and its efficiency. As has been well said here by the spokesman for Citizens, it is possible to prevent a statute of autonomy from becoming effective and subsequently to be modified or partially repealed with the consequent damage to the principle of legal certainty. It is therefore very sensible and strengthens our Constitution and our rule of law. I'm done, Madam President. We respect all the positions that have been expressed here by all the political groups and of course we also respect the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as I said in this debate, but it must be made clear - and I am doing so here - that, if this proposal comes forward through the position of the Socialist Group, it does not mean that the 2015 reforms will be repealed in this act, let alone that the powers now enjoyed by the Constitutional Court to enforce its resolutions will be revoked. We remain as always ready for dialogue but firm in our convictions. Thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u18	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDING ARTICLE 42.1 OF THE STATUS OF WORKERS TO GUARANTEE EQUALITY IN THE WORKING CONDITIONS OF SUBCONTRACTED WORKERS. [[File number 122/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u19	We continue to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin this speech, allow me to greet on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group the various representatives of the trade unions, as well as employment advisers and general directors of Andalusia and the Balearic Islands who are accompanying us today in this House. This greeting, apart from its sincere and protocolary character, is bound to be fulfilled, because they have been fundamental in the thrust and configuration of this bill that the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to this House today. It is a proposal for a law aimed at amending article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. In other words, the aim of this proposal promoted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is to prevent the process of outsourcing that is being extended to companies from affecting the greater precariousness of workers' working conditions. The Labour Reform of the People's Party has led our country to a model of precarious employment, unprotected against unemployment and low wages, an authoritarian model of labour relations that has broken the balance of power between workers and entrepreneurs and is weakening collective bargaining. All these elements, together with the growing process of outsourcing that is being experienced in the companies of our country, further exacerbate the deterioration of the working conditions of the contracted workers for the outsourced or outsourced activity. As you are well aware, this process is very widespread in the hospitality sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, where tourism is the main engine of the economy, a community that has systematically set records in the arrival of tourists in recent years. In 2015 the Canary Islands registered more than 13 million visitors, a very positive figure, no doubt. As a result, these 13 million visits should lead to improvements in the working and wage conditions of the workers in the sector concerned, but no, that positive and historical figure at the time does not have a positive impact on the workers, but, on the contrary, results in a deeply negative figure, a painful figure - supported by university studies - which places the Canary Islands on the podium of the European regions with the highest rate of labour poverty. It is paradoxical that, by increasing the number of tourists, the Canarian workers are becoming poorer and poorer. One of the key factors contributing to the poverty of workers at this stage of tourism bonanza is outsourcing, an increasingly common practice that enables many workers, performing the same functions as others, to earn up to 50% less wages. This happens when they do it through outsourcing companies. What I am telling you is well known by the maids of the apartment, who visited us yesterday in this Congress to denounce precisely this situation, among others, and who have lived first-hand as companions of the hotel next door charge twice as much as they perform the same functions. But this happens not only in tourism sectors such as the Canary Islands or the Balearic Islands, but the phenomenon of subcontracting expands very quickly by other tourist areas of Spain, a business practice that has also become common in sectors such as automotive, logistics or contact center, among others. Without going any further, it should be remembered that just a few weeks ago the representatives of the contact centre workers denounced the precarious work they are suffering as a result of the abuse of contracts of work and service, part-time work - only 33% of the days are complete - low wages and that there is more and more subcontracting. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have a country sown with inequalities. Today we can talk about poor workers. 13.2% of working people in Spain, or 28% of the population, are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. The number of employed people at risk of poverty in Spain is three points above the European average. Job insecurity, temporary employment and insecurity; this, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, is what has achieved its most successful labour reform. [[Applauds]] Having a job no longer ensures that the most basic needs are met; job insecurity and poverty go hand in hand, and they do so encouraged and strengthened by the weakening of the balance of forces needed in collective bargaining, which wiped out the People's Party from a pen. This has clearly led to a loss of strength and the necessary role of trade unions in collective bargaining, which in turn has led to a clear decline in registered collective agreements, as well as in the revised ones. Official figures attest and demonstrate this; workers covered by collective agreements have risen from 10.66 million in 2011 to just over 6.5 million today. In addition, with the entry into force of the labour reform, the new rules on disengagement of working conditions began to apply. Since 2012, there have been more than 5,000 inapplications, affecting about 250,000 workers. In view of the eloquence of the figures indicated, the decline in the individual and collective rights of workers, of which only one person is responsible, the People's Party, whose labour reform placed the priority of the enterprise agreement vis-à-vis the sector, has led to the fact that many subcontracted workers almost cover the inter-professional minimum wage. The comparative aggravation is reflected in the fact that the agreements that improve the inter-professional minimum wage do so on an average of EUR 1,048 per year, which is equivalent to an annual wage of EUR 10,082,51, certainly a figure well below the national average wage. These wage differences have been denounced by the workers and there are multiple rulings that give them reason, which has led some of the main companies in the service sector to advocate for taking steps towards wage equalisation and thus eliminating legal uncertainty that ultimately translates into higher costs for them. The labour policies of the People's Party are in doubt when it is the companies themselves, ladies and gentlemen, that take corrective measures to ensure legal certainty. Despite the triumphalist trumpetery of Mr Rajoy's government, another obvious consequence of his employment policies is the loss of purchasing power from the working class, a situation that should blush those who have led to the impoverishment of the workers of this country, which also dismantles the ridiculous idea launched by the People's Party, which, in its delirium, goes so far as to say that the socialists are seeking the destruction of businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know who is seriously and seriously attacking companies? They attack companies which, with their labour policies, generate the devaluation of workers' wages, which, consequently, distance themselves from the status of potential consumers of the products offered by our companies. Without decent wages, with the existence of the opposite phenomenon, i.e. with wage devaluation, the growth of consumption is stopped at the desired levels. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been shown that the People's Party is capable of saying one thing and doing the opposite, because denying, for example, the existence of job insecurity proves not to be in the reality that Spanish people live daily. Is there any Member in this House who does not know the case of many workers who add part-time contracts to different companies on a daily basis in order, at best, to add income that puts them at the door of minimum income to meet their basic needs? I do not know the answer your ladies and gentlemen will give, but what I do assure you is that the workers and subcontracted workers know it perfectly because they live it daily in their meats. That is why, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I call for the House's support for this bill. Opposing it implies signing in favour of precariousness, temporaryity and job insecurity. The reality is clumsy; there those who want to live in the ignorance of the true social reality of our country. Today, I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are beginning the countdown to restore dignity to thousands and thousands of workers in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. I thought I had two minutes and I have three, not bad. New Canarias wants to announce first - given the precarious weather in which I move - that we will enthusiastically support this proposal for a law on the working conditions of subcontracted workers. Within the process of precarization of workers' rights that has been taking place over the past few years, one of the particularly perverse forms of precarization of working conditions is precisely the abuse of subcontracting, which has contributed to this objective which has sought to make up the figures based on the internal devaluation of the working conditions of our people and their wages. In the end, what has been done has been to use subcontracting to devalue the working conditions and wages of workers performing the same type of work as others who, in many cases, charge more than twice as much. This has been explained very well by the Member of the Socialist Group, Canary Islands like me, who knows that one of the sectors where this is produced with the most profusion and with the most hardness is precisely the hospitality sector. It is unreasonable that in view of the spectacular growth figures of tourism activity, and as a result of the hotel sector, the impact is favourable from the point of view of the growth of activity and profoundly unfavourable from the point of view of the growth not only of wages but of work. It is an inequality, an unequal development that we must fight with force. All this is generating situations close to the slavery of important sectors of workers who are forced to work at a standstill and the procedures used are to deny them the rights for this type of subterfuge. We agree with all this as well as that in the Senate our senator has presented a study paper on the working conditions of cleaning workers in the hotel sector, a perfect example of what precisely cannot be defended. This, moreover, is an element that seriously affects healthy competition between different companies; a process of unfair competition whereby many of the companies end up winning competitions to then subcontract the activity at lower prices with others who also competed and lost. This is one of the elements that must begin to change, modify, and recover the lost labour rights throughout the past legislature. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Quevedo Iturbe. I didn't have three minutes, I had three minutes with thirty-three, thirty-three, thirty-three. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] For the Joint Group too, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Socialist Group has not measured the perverse effect its initiative would have on business relations and also on the public administration's coffers. If it were to be completed, it would judicialize relations between companies and, therefore, between their workers; it would cause a very serious economic disruption to the Administration and bias the freedom of business organization set out in the Spanish Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as this reform is published in the EBO, the reality of the labour market is that companies could not face any more payments for subcontracts to pay their workers back. Neither would the small business turn to the main company to claim the contract increase. To expect this is to ignore the apprehension that regulates these situations, is to ignore the social reality. The precedent for the creation of the dependent self-employed points to the futility of these measures, because the suspicion in labour relations means that few self-employed people have thought about denouncing or combating an irregular situation. Today we are proposing something similar, but we are talking about medium-sized companies and especially small businesses. I cannot go further by pointing out the possible contradiction with the Constitution in relation to corporate organisational freedom, which would be limited by your proposal. The initiative also poses a serious risk to the public purses, as there is also fear in the private sector of reporting abuse, which does not exist in the public, which will have an impact on new burdens on the administration, i.e. more pressure on the taxpayer. One example is the recent judgment of the European Court on temporary workers. Finally, the socialist proposal affects all contracts that an entrepreneur makes of his main or nuclear activity, but the public administration would not escape it. A form of procurement covered by the Public Sector Contracts Act is the concert, through which the Administration provides indirectly, with a third party, its services, usually essential, such as health or education. If this reform were to be completed, the door would be opened for the concerted centres to have to pay the same amount paid by the Administration to public workers. Consequence: increase in the expenditure of the autonomous communities, and not a small amount. Finally, this reform would condition working conditions. If implemented, all foundations, associations and concerted enterprises providing essential or nuclear services specific to each Administration would eventually be subrogated by the Administration. My vote, therefore, Madam President, will be against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u25	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u26	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Three minutes. It's longer today. I will begin by pointing out something we have already said from this rostrum on behalf of Euskal Herria Bildu, and it is that for us the best possible framework for Basque workers is the Basque framework of labour relations inserted in a sovereign and own national reality, that of Euskal Herria. But to the extent that that is not yet a reality and to the extent that the laws that are passed here are laws that affect the workers and workers of our country, we will point out something very obvious and that will mark all our intervention: that subcontracting generates precariousness and poverty. Why? Because subcontracting is being used to reduce wage costs, destroying self-employment and replacing it with precarious employment. I say precarious employment because it has much worse working and wage conditions than self-employment, and because it also has much worse working safety conditions. It is enough to point out that in 2015 in the Basque Autonomous Community one third of the deceased workers were outsourced personnel. Needless to say, the percentage weight of subcontractors within the Basque economy as a whole does not by far reach a third. And where is that subcontracting taking place? As the proposer has pointed out, in hospitality and services yes, but not only in these sectors, also in industry, energy and telecommunications. This made it more clear to us than other sectors - because of their level of mobilization - the Blue Sea, the tide of the Movistar workers. They and they asked us - I think they also pointed out in this House - how it was possible that in one company, developing the same job, some workers would charge 1,000 euros and another 2,000 euros, depending on whether they were subcontracted or company staff; how it was possible for some workers to work ten hours a day while others would work seven hours a day, depending on whether they were subcontracted or company staff, and how it was possible that, while performing the same job, they would have different conditions of safety and health at work, also depending on whether they were subcontracted or company staff. Needless to say, those who enjoyed the worst conditions were subcontractors. We will support the bill because even on paper it can help to make equal pay for equal work and because it can curb the destruction of decent employment in large companies, but we sincerely believe that more than laws, what is lacking is attitude and commitment. There is a lack of attitude when the number of tax inspectors is not tripled, for example, and at the same time there is an economic muscle for defence spending. There is a lack of attitude when there are no more judges who follow the path of Judge Garbiñe Biurrun of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, who equates the compensation for dismissal between temporary and fixed staff. There is a lack of attitude when public institutions, in what they can do, decide to continue to use subcontracting for both major works, as could be - what I know - the high-speed train, the Supersur or San Mamés Barria, as well as for other types of work, such as residences, waste recycling in Bizkaia or home care. And there is a lack of attitude when this initiative refers to article 38 of the Constitution, which shields the rights of businesses, when it could have done so to article 35 of the Constitution, which speaks of the right to decent work and to remuneration for it. But the Constitution has probably also been left on wet paper.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u27	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u28	Thank you, Madam President. The fundamental question that the Socialist Group has raised with us with this initiative in part could be shared: the deterioration of working conditions linked to a process of exemption from activities. And this is not the first time we have discussed this initiative by the Socialist Group; I think I remember that in the 10th Legislature we had the opportunity to discuss it. Therefore, recognizing that there is a problem, my group will today vote in favour of taking it into consideration, but we want to warn at least three issues. Firstly, in any regulation of outsourcing processes we must be extremely cautious because there are abuses - and certainly in the hospitality sector there are abuses, they have existed in other productive sectors - but we cannot imagine a competitive industrial economic fabric without outsourcing processes. It is therefore prudent to regulate this issue, so I warn the Socialist Group that we will amend its proposal for a law in the parliamentary procedure. I remember in passing that we already regulate subcontracting in the construction sector and I do not know whether that law at a time when the economy is growing again will be useful to us to prevent abuses in the construction sector. Secondly, trust in collective bargaining, because perhaps what explains the deterioration of working conditions is not so much the outsourcing itself as the prevalence of the enterprise agreement above the sector agreement. And perhaps it would also be good for us in this parliamentary process to strengthen the role of collective bargaining in the area of subcontracting. Thirdly, there are other policies not directly linked to labour regulation that will be more useful in the fight against job degradation linked to outsourcing. One of them is the increase in the minimum professional wage. Some of the company contracts are viable because, with a low interprofessional minimum wage, one can compete by degrading working conditions. And obviously there must be decisive action by the Labour Inspectorate. Any measures that increase the efforts of the Labour Inspectorate to combat the degradation of employment conditions will find our support. Finally, one last consideration that is good for you to know the House. The spokesman for the Socialist Group has used his intervention to make a full amendment to the labour reform of the PP Government, and is in its legitimate right to do so, but Article 42, which is the subject of this initiative, was not amended in 2013. In fact, I do not remember the last time Article 42 was amended. Therefore, with this measure today we can do many things, but we do not repeal labour reform, what we are dealing with is a regulation of subcontracting that affects Article 42. It is good to remember this so that the House does not hesitate about what we have discussed and voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u29	Thank you very much. For the PNV Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal aims to eliminate one of the most characteristic pathologies of the labour market, which is cascade subcontracting, from which today there are numerous groups of workers who, although they are supposed to be the subject of contracts with the umbrella of their specialty, have suffered unjustifiable and rather fraudulent practices from which a flight from the tuitive function of labour law has resulted, because, as the explanatory statement recalls, subcontracting as an institution both commercial and labor aims in principle, and in view of the greater qualification and specialization of workers, to facilitate them access to a labour market of their own and also to enable many small enterprises to participate in a labour market outsourced precisely because of its specificity. Private subcontracting has no legal limits other than those derived from Act No. 32/2006 and Act No. 14/1994, construction and temporary employment enterprises. As a result of the contracts entered into under their auspices, it is not uncommon - quite the contrary - for the contracting undertaking and the first contract to know neither what is the last subcontract to carry out the work to be awarded nor, much less, the qualification of its workers or the quality. This situation degrades the working conditions of subcontracted workers, safety and the prevention of occupational risks, pay and, as a general rule, most working conditions. For that reason alone, and for all those reasons to which the proposal for a law also refers, we consider it advisable to vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposal for a law. However, we wanted to make a small warning to the proposers, since we believe that, as a result of the current text, we are faced with a small problem, which is the one relating to the participation of collective agreements provided for in Articles 82.3, 83.2 and 85.3 of the Workers' Statute - of the Reformed, 2012 - since, as you will recall, such reform establishes the prevalence of the enterprise agreement over agreements of higher scope. The proposal for a law does not solve the problem of competition between collective agreements of the contracting undertaking and collective agreements of subcontracted undertakings. It should be borne in mind that each undertaking has its collective agreement, that its scope is determined by the personal, territorial and sectoral fields indicated by each collective agreement and that this - that is the problem - is an area of non-available law. The proposal for a law establishes not only changes in the content of the working conditions of the agreements of the subcontracted companies, but also contractual innovations when it concerns conditions of employment and working time. [[The lady]] We repeat in any case that these doubts are formulated under the current text and without prejudice to the fact that once it is taken into account, as we hope, we can make the necessary reforms in its processing. Thus, and just by making a suggestion that could be reflected in the discussion, it could be stated in its argument that in order to ensure that the conditions of successive subcontracts are not degraded, the validity of such collective agreements would be provisionally suspended in relation to the clauses contained in article 1 of the proposed law. However, whatever the text resulting from the debate, we consider it necessary to address this problem under the umbrella of a premise, that of amending article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute, as well as addressing the issue of collective agreements as currently regulated in article 82.1 and 83.2 of the Workers' Statute, so I repeat that we will vote in favour of their consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u32	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. We will vote in favour of the proposed law amending Article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. How are we going to vote against such an elementary principle? How can anyone in this House vote against something as clear as equal work and working conditions? In fact, even the minister herself said this at the last appearance when she spoke of the wage gap between men and women. So sad is the working reality that we have to propose a law to guarantee this basic principle of equality, and says very little of those who have governed us so far have to regulate the equal conditions for the same work. That being said, we believe that a more restrictive regulation of subcontracting is not, as has been said here, an attack on freedom of enterprise in terms of its power to subcontract and organise itself as best it pleases, but rather to regulate that activity in order to avoid speculation in the labour market, to prevent the devaluing of the working conditions of workers through this perverse practice. In the beginning, subcontracting should be used to cover a greater degree of specialization and qualification of workers, i.e. to cover those specific needs of a company - for example, specialized maintenance in a nuclear power plant by a specialist company - but the reality is that more and more, and exponentially, subcontracting is used as a system for a single purpose: to reduce the wage costs and working conditions of workers. And this is what we must regulate and prevent in this Parliament: the progressive and abusive increase in the outsourcing and outsourcing of staff with the sole objective of devaluing wage costs; the avoidance of abusive outsourcing in all areas of practice, both in public and private administrations and companies. Why do we say abusive? Because, I repeat, the purpose of these subcontracts no longer has in many cases reasons for specialization, technology or added value, but they respond exclusively to speculation with the labour force. The reason for this remarkable increase is again due to the labour reforms that allow for company agreements and work below sectoral agreements; that is, it is outsourced for the subcontracting company to do the dirty work of devaluation of wages and working conditions. All this causes corporate dumping, competition between companies based on low wages and working conditions, i.e. if a subcontractor improves its profits on the basis of paying a lower price than it would if it had its own staff, what makes it that the companies that do well, those governed by the sector agreements, would be in worse condition to compete, with which they often also opt to subcontract creating a downward chain effect with only one injured: workers. Another perverse effect is the double salary scale between people who do the same work. Subcontracted companies often subrogate the staffing, but from there new staff recruitments will already be with own company agreements created often also ad hoc to speculate and earn money based on worsening working conditions. Finally, the devastating effect on a territory when it is subcontracted on a large scale, as is happening, since competition is established not by improving the quality of services or work performed, but from who has the cheapest subcontracts, which pay less to their workers. In this is the business, especially in companies that subcontract jobs of little added value; specifically it would be the hospitality service, the housekeepers, because bleach or cleaning products are worth the same, and where is the business? In reducing working conditions, there it is. Especially harmful are the multi-service companies that are dedicated exclusively to speculation, and that on the part of Esquerra Republicana are in our point of view for the damage they are doing in sectors such as cleaning, hospitality, etc. In short, we will vote in favour of this bill to continue working towards regulating the subcontracting sector, and we hope that we can all create good regulation of subcontracting to ensure equality and the best working conditions for all. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador i Duch. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not used to it, but today I want to start my exhibition by talking to you about a real story, a story that happened to me in the first person, a story that happened to me fifteen years ago. [[The Lord]] Fifteen years ago he was a happy college student who, like many of my generation, combined our university studies with different jobs. I had passed through ETT, through different companies, and once I saw an announcement from a service company that offered repo jobs; at that time we took all kinds of jobs and there I went, I left my resume, I remember I spent an interview with the human resources manager and a few days I started working. I started working on a commercial surface, the typical supermarket and up to there all good; there were workers who worked for this service company and there were other workers who worked directly for the supermarket. In principle the only difference was the name we had on the sticker, the screen printing of our T-shirt, we had the name of the service company and they had the name of the supermarket; all right. Gradually you're gaining confidence and when you've been working for a few months, at lunches you talk to one another, you talk to one another, and that's when we realized that that wasn't the only difference, but that the difference actually came to the end of the month with the payroll, when we charged between half and two thirds of what the supermarket workers themselves charged. What do I mean by that? The problem is not from now on, it's a problem that comes from a long time ago, and I tell this story because the funny thing is that recently, months ago, I met a colleague, a friend who hasn't had the same luck as I or we've been able to have others, lost his job and after being unemployed he started working for a service company, in a situation very similar to that which I worked fifteen years ago. I almost forgot, but this story of my friend made me remember that this situation is dramatic, because at that time I didn't need it to eat, but my friend does need it to feed a family. The paradox of this story that I tell you here today is that fifteen years later our labour market continues to have the same problems of inequality and discrimination among workers. I am no longer just talking about the situation of subcontracting or illegal divestment, but I am also talking about the fact that we have workers who have different working conditions within the same company just because they have temporary jobs and contracts or indefinite contracts, as we have been reminded by the September judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union that have been appointed here. But that is not just the problem of our labour market, our labour market has many more problems. We have a structural unemployment problem. At present we are around 20% unemployment, but in the last thirty years we have three times exceeded 20% unemployment. But if you are lucky enough to get out of unemployment and start working, to get a job the truth is that the situation is not much more flattering either, because according to statistics, more than 90% of the contracts that are currently concluded are temporary contracts with a rate of temporality of the highest, only surpassed by Poland, of all the countries in our environment. That is what we have to add, as you all know and have spoken here in the House, a problem also of labour poverty, because we have around 6 million workers who, although working, cannot reach the end of the month, because their income does not come to exceed in annual terms that minimum wage that was talked about before, and for those who rise from that interprofessional minimum wage - as some speakers have said here - do not solve the problem. We are very clear on what the problem is. The problem is that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, as well as you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have been dedicated this whole year to patching up, patching up as you bring here today from the reform of Article 42 of the Workers' Statute, when the problems go far beyond. Because I want to remind you that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, who now go with the workers' defence banners and go out on the street, it was you who brought the 2010 reform to the House, it was you who enlarged the collective that could reduce compensation from forty-five days to thirty-three days, and it was you who multiplied the cases of pay cuts, facilitating that pay layoff. It is true that later the People's Party also arrived with a series of labour reforms. They tell us that it has been used to generate employment, we do not doubt that it has been used to generate employment, but we have to think about what kind of employment and it is true that this labor reform that the People's Party has brought has been used to make these cases, such as those I have explained to you, my friend's own or case, multiply exponentially. We therefore believe that there is a need for in-depth labour reform, a reform of our model of labour relations, not just of article 42 of the Workers' Statute. We must reform our recruitment system so that we do not have the problems we currently have, which we have talked about, problems of duality. We will have to move towards a single contract that avoids those problems, and we will have to play another type of contract models. It is true that the part-time contract has to be used as a flexibility tool for entrepreneurs, but at present - like the temporary contract - it is being used as a fraud tool. You will all meet workers who are hired four hours and then are working eight hours, with the expoliation that this means for our Social Security System. It is probably also, as has been said here, necessary to reform our model of collective bargaining, but it is equally not so important if we are to make a model of sectoral collective bargaining or a model of collective enterprise bargaining; what we believe is important is to make clear the legitimacy of workers and the representation of workers so that things like those that are happening today do not happen. We will certainly also have to reform our model of labour relations in order to adapt to new technologies and the digital economy, so that we do not find ourselves again in situations of fraud such as those frontier labour relations that we will have to delimit. In short, we do not want any more patches, but a new model of labour relations, and that is why we will abstain in this vote, because we believe that many more things are achieved by sitting at the table, sitting down to dialogue, and we have clear examples of how to increase paternity permits from two to four weeks through negotiation, reach a great pact for work reconciliation that allows us to spend more time with our families and increase birth, which is missing from us. By sitting and negotiating we can achieve improvements in self-employed people such as those we have achieved in the agreements with the People's Party - let us remember that self-employed people are the major net job generators in our country - or a wage supplement for our young people, and that is indeed an effective tool for combating precariousness or if we talk about unemployment a profiling system that will make our public employment services improve in their operation and give employment to many more workers. We know that at present our employment services do not place even 2% of the unemployed. So from my parliamentary group, as I say, we bet on sitting down and we bet on dialogue. I wanted to tell the minister, although we do not have her here, that we do not know what she is waiting for, that we must sit down now and it must be her, the minister, who must set up that dialogue table and that negotiating table that has promised us all, where we are present, both the social and economic actors and the other political parties, because, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens have chosen us to solve the problems, not to create more problems for them. That is why I want to tell the minister to be brave and to set up that dialogue table because we have many collectives who can't wait any longer. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. Mr Rodríguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to talk and discuss - we have already seen this - one of the biggest problems in our country's labour relations, the productive fabric and the economy, which is subcontracting. Two things are discussed in the explanatory memorandum to this bill: first, the effects of subcontracting on productivity and business efficiency. This is a rather questionable fact, both theoretically and practically. Reports from the Banco de España and the National Institute of Statistics place us as one of the least productive countries in our environment, which puts this information in serious doubt, and the reality of everyday life as well. This is perhaps more important than the reports of the Banco de España and the INE. How many times have we found ourselves in our jobs - those who have ever worked here, of course - how an endless chain of contracts and subcontracts slows down and hinders work, impedes coordination and finally makes deadlines and targets not met? How many times have we seen him? A lot of times. This non-law proposal also speaks, and in this we fully agree, of the devastating effects that subcontracting has had and has on the working conditions of our country. Millions of people work as mules, share physical space and tasks with colleagues from the parent company or large company, as is colloquially known, who see as having longer days, less recognized rights, a collective agreement far below that of the people who have next door, and above all - most seriously - a much lower salary than their colleagues. In this it will deepen the companion Rita when I speak within a moment of the floor waitresses, who know this well about what I am talking about. This is an aberration, it's nonsense, it's simply inadmissible. This initiative today takes the first steps in the right direction. That is why we are voting in favour, as it could not be otherwise. Or maybe it could be otherwise. I'm going to give you a little example. We can put forward an amendment in this same line in an initiative in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, placing special emphasis on the public contracting documents, clauses of obligatory compliance by the Administration, so that the labor rights and collective agreements of the sector are respected when it is the Administration that makes the contract, and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party - well, that of worker...-, the Spanish Socialist Party voted against, because coherence and common sense touch when they are in the opposition, when they are in the government, warm in the chair, as in the Canary Islands government, because already the thing changes a little. Let's leave this example and move on. This little anecdote is not going to condition our vote today. We come here to make proposals to improve people's lives. That is our objective, for which we work, and therefore, as I have already said, we are going to vote in favour. [[Applauds]] In order to broaden the content of this proposed law, we add the following points to the debate and drafting. One, the legal representation of workers must have access to the content of the commercial contract between contractor and subcontractor, in order to monitor the objective of subcontracting. Two, any breach of labour regulations with the subcontracted workforce must result in the consideration of illegal transfer of workers. And three, that we consider limiting potential and temporary contracts in the subcontracting chain. I did not want to finish - I am seeing time, but I am doing well - without placing in the center of the debate the main reason for the existence of subcontracting, its raison d'être, which is cause and consequence at the same time, and it is not another - do not be mistaken, do not give it varnish - than to prevent the organization of the working people, that under no concept can we have a common space where we agree, where we organize and where we fight for more dignified conditions. There's nothing older and more effective than dividing and conquering. The currants of this country divided and subdivided into an endless chain of subcontracted companies are cannon meat: individualists, frightened, afraid, confronted among us, so want us those who command. It is not just an economic or labor issue, which is also an ideological one. This is ideology. For you labor relations are the jungle, where the law of the strongest must prevail and where working people must negotiate their conditions individually. For us it is quite the opposite: the capacity of association and union of the working people, the possibility of standing up for a collective actor who negotiates working conditions collectively, who feels you to the employer, with the entrepreneur, equal to the same, is our only guarantee, the only guarantee we have. Collective bargaining and trade union freedom are a key pillar of any rule of law, of any democracy worthy of that name, because we cannot, nor do we want to, live in a country where democracy remains outside the workplace. Democracy also has to go in from door to door; our parents and mothers fought hard enough for that and our grandparents and grandmothers. [[Applauds]] The working people of this country are already tired of you staying to do overtime this afternoon because I say it; you come to work on Saturday because I say it, and you're going to charge 600 euros and if you like it and if you don't. We are tired; these phrases are repeated by thousands every day in our country, by thousands, and are direct aggressions not only against our dignity as people and as workers, but also against democracy itself. We want a country that works, that is productive, that generates wealth, with solvent companies that generate jobs, but for that it is essential that the working people have rights and that a maximum democratic of the workers' movement - unfortunately today is still more necessary than ever - which is nothing other than equal work, equal pay. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Mr Candon Adam has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding the Socialist Group's spokesman of the poor memory and amnesia he has in relation to the number of people left behind. And after listening to the spokesman of Podemos I have to say that thank God and less evil that we have advanced in our labor legal system. I don't know where you've been in the past centuries. Thank God we work and advance for the well-being of our citizens. The proposal that is brought here today has already been debated in the previous legislature. It begins its statement of reasons by valuing the freedom of enterprise recognized in article 38 of the Spanish Constitution, as it cannot otherwise be; however, in the amendments intended to be made to article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute, they propose rather than limiting the freedom of enterprise, since the organizational capacity of companies providing services through outsourcing contracts is nullified. It is the social partners who must continue to work to strengthen collective bargaining on subcontracting, and of course to find a balance in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. At the present time, and in an area of political consensus and social dialogue, further progress must be made in the rights of subcontracted workers, as it cannot be otherwise, provided that the rights of workers and the constitutional right to freedom of enterprise are also reconciled. But subcontracting is not just a source of problems, as the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants us to see here today. Currently subcontracting is a common resource for the company, since it allows it to reduce manufacturing costs, have access to qualified experts in the field, address a business transformation, reduce risks, convert fixed costs into variables or receive innovative ideas to improve business, products and services, among other issues. While it is true that the relationship that is created between the companies involved is complex - especially depending on the type of subcontracting that we are talking about - it is no less true that the legislator has provided it with a number of guarantees in favour of the workers involved, in order to prevent the rights of the workers from being violated in this way. In our labour market we could basically distinguish two types of subcontracting. One, which we could call good or favorable subcontracting, which is the usual one that everyone practices, and on the other hand, we find another type of subcontracting that can generate more problems, which are the subcontracting chains. Obviously, we are not blind to this. Although this is not the usual practice, it is true that this type of negative subcontracting exists, but we cannot criminalize the subcontract in general terms, as well understood it brings real value to the labour market and to the quality of production that must not be ignored. That's not an obstacle to not seeing the problems that may arise. The questions would be as follows: is the regulation of the subcontract the means to avoid harmful effects? Is the solution legally binding on all employees of contractors or subcontractors to recognize the minimum working and employment conditions they would have if they were all hired directly by the principal employer, as the proposed law seeks? Well, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is no. The proposal for a law seems to forget that in the current labour order a minimum of mandatory compliance is already established - either through the existing legal or regulatory regulations, or through conventional regulations as an improvement of the previous ones, such as sectoral or enterprise collective agreements - for all the working and employment conditions that the initiative defends as essential. From these minimums, which must be observed, the principle of freedom of enterprise must prevail. Such an obligation would, to a large extent, run counter to the possibility that in companies that usually operate as contractors or subcontractors of others, individual collective agreements would be freely negotiated at company level, which would be contrary to one of the objectives of the 2012 labour reform, which is to bring collective bargaining closer to the company so that the content of the agreement can be adapted to its specific circumstances; and this is because such contractors or subcontractors should in any case apply the minimums set out in the collective agreements of the main companies, which in practice would render their own agreement inoperative. It is not logical to equate workers employed by contractors or subcontractors with personnel directly employed by the principal undertaking, even in the case of temporary transfer of workers to a user undertaking by a temporary employment undertaking. On the one hand, in the last two cases, the worker is integrated into the organization of the company in which he provides services - principal or user - and is subject to the power of direction and control of the work activity. On the other hand, in the case of licit subcontracting there is a different and real entrepreneur, the contractor or subcontractor, in whose area of organization the worker under the power of direction and control, rather than that of the principal undertaking, provides services. On the other hand, in the case of licit contracting or subcontracting, the principal undertaking does not carry out the activity with its own personal and material means, but merely receives the result of what is carried out by the contractor or subcontractor, for which the latter provides its personal and material means with the consequent organization and direction. Therefore, if it is the contractor or subcontractor which, even following the guidelines established by the principal undertaking, directs and organizes the development of the productive activity entrusted to it, must be free within those minimums of compulsory compliance to which we have already referred, in order to establish within it working conditions that are adapted to its characteristics and needs. A different question would be the apparent recruitment or subcontracting covering an assumption of employee assignment. Thus, the illegal transfer of workers is defined in the Law on Offences and Penalties of the Social Order as a very serious offence and may even become a criminal offence, as provided for in article 312 of the Criminal Code, as illegal trafficking in labour. Nor can we ignore Law 13/2012 of 26 December on combating irregular employment and social security fraud. It includes the amendment of Article 42(2) of the Staff Regulations, which extends from one to three years the period during which the principal employer is jointly and severally liable for the social security obligations incurred by contractors and subcontractors during the period of validity of the contract. Since the implementation of the 2012 Plan to Combat Labour Fraud and Social Security, 403,000 irregular jobs, i.e. jobs without rights, have been made available and 5,700 fictitious enterprises created with the sole objective of facilitating undue access to benefits have been identified. The actions of the plan have had an economic impact of 17,189 million euros. In short, we understand that there are already labour laws in our legal system, labour risk prevention laws, anti-fraud laws, a body of inspectors and sub-inspectors, a law on infringements and sanctions, and these are the tools we have to use in this matter, because subcontracts themselves are not a problem, and if we proceed to regulate them in the terms set out in this bill, we run the risk of paralysing a model of employment relationship that, as I said before, generates advantages for all social sectors. We will therefore vote against the consideration of this non-legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I believe that we are not to play with employment, that we are not to demagogy and that we cannot experiment with the opportunities of the Spanish. Mr President, I end up wishing all your ladies and gentlemen happy holidays and a prosperous new year. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Candon.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u40	We move on to the next item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to continue to drive the process of adopting an international status for victims of terrorism. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Blanco Garrido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. I want my first words, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, to express our condemnation of yesterday's attacks in Ankara - which cost the Russian ambassador his life in Turkey - and in Berlin - which has killed twelve people and left dozens of wounded, including a Spanish citizen -. [[Applauds]] I also wish to convey our condolences to the families of the victims and to wish for an early recovery to each and every one of the injured. In the same way, I would like to wish for the prompt release of the Spanish Red Cross co-operator kidnapped in Afghanistan, sad news that we have known today. It is now to be hoped that those responsible will not go unpunished and that the full weight of the law will fall on them. Ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is one of the greatest threats to peace and security today. We face a global threat that strikes hard anywhere in the world and knows no borders. Therefore, the fight against jihadist terrorism is a priority for this Government, and it should be so for all, because it is not the present moment to give the terrorists internal divisions or partisan reproaches; it is the moment of unity to face the greatest scourge of this century, which is global terrorism. Only in this way, from unity and from the strongest application of the law, will we succeed in defeating it without intermediate paths that can strengthen terrorists and thereby weaken democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, Paris, Brussels, Tunisia, Bali, Madrid or Bilbao represent a small example of the thousands and thousands of places marked forever by terrorism and, therefore, forever in our memory, since we should all remember that the extreme consequence of terrorism is the victims it causes. Daesh, ETA or Boko Haram are terrorist groups that have in common to provoke a state of terror in order to achieve political purposes and attack our coexistence system. All their actions only lead to the pain and suffering of innocent beings, because what they will never achieve is to put an end to our democracies. Terrorism can present many forms, but all its victims have something in common, their innocence, and their memory reminds us that nothing justifies or can justify barbarism, because there is no idea, belief or political project that can support these actions. This basic lesson, almost primary, is on many occasions, clearly interested, forgotten by certain political or societal sectors, with a clear objective that is no other than to justify each of the terrorist crimes under the guise of conflict of opposing sides or worthy fighters of a people, when they refer to terrorists, and even pretending to disguise as ideological freedom or expression the advocacy of terrorism or collaboration with terrorist organization. This happens here in our country; instead, I suppose no one would think that the perpetrators of the Paris or Brussels attacks were considered fighters of a legitimate cause or worthy to follow that they can go through democratic institutions. Well, in the People's Parliamentary Group we are very clear that those who commit a terrorist crime are not exercising their rights, but are violating the rights of others, including the fundamental right par excellence, which is the right to life. And of this, unfortunately, our country knows a lot, because we have suffered for almost five decades, with particular virulence, from the terrorist gang ETA, which has caused 857 victims and which we have managed to defeat thanks to the firmness of our rule of law, not to mention the rest of the victims caused by other terrorist groups, of course, including the 192 victims of the biggest European attack on 11 March 2004. Spain therefore attaches great importance to the assistance, defence and support of the victims of terrorism, taking into account, on the one hand, the elementary principle of justice and, on the other, the legitimizing effect of the dissemination of their memory and testimonies in order to help overcome this scourge of universal scope. In this regard, our country has been working for years to adopt this binding international norm of a universal nature, and I say that it takes time because the issue is not easy if we take into account that the recognition and protection of the rights of victims has historically been neglected by States and the United Nations, unlike other categories of victims, such as victims of crime, in which the rights of victims of terrorism are currently included. This was precisely one of the allegations by the United Nations to postpone the elaboration of specific regulations for victims of terrorism, as they allude to the fact that we are already covered by this statute. But it is that the victims of terrorism, ladies and gentlemen, are not mere victims of crime, because the constant elements of terrorism include using victims as a mere tool to socialize terror, in order to destroy the State and its institutions, violating their rights in order to achieve a political objective that is always incompatible with freedom, coexistence in peace, pluralism and democracy. This is precisely what makes the victims of terrorism not to be regarded as mere victims of crime, but rather that they need to have a specific and binding norm of a universal nature. Because, ladies and gentlemen, have you ever stopped to think about what will happen to the relatives of each of the mortal victims and the wounded of the various terrorist attacks that unfortunately shake the world too often? I'm thinking especially about Iraq or Afghanistan. How will these relatives or the victims themselves of the physical and moral damage inflicted against them be treated? What political, social or institutional recognition will they have? Will they have the right to justice? I ask these questions very often and, frankly, I almost always get the same answer: in most cases they have no right to go beyond health care at first. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations has recently said, there are too many victims of terror all over the world, who suffer in silence from abandonment that exacerbates their pain and wounds. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group has wanted to bring and defend this initiative, because we believe that it is increasingly necessary to achieve that specific status for those who have been victims of the scourge of terror, because it is increasingly urgent to achieve a catalogue of rights that goes beyond emergency health care, that is to say, that it receives long-term health and psychological assistance, that it contains the right to investigate the terrorist act and that the perpetrators are ultimately pursued a right to justice and full reparation. In this sense - I conclude, Mr President - the victims of different places in the world expressed it before the United Nations Security Council at its meeting on 21 October 2015, on the occasion of the Spanish Presidency, where they had the opportunity to speak, for the first time, and to reflect through their voice the cruelty of the suffering they have experienced because of terror, thus preventing one of the terrorist's objectives, to silence their voice, because they know that terror wins and kills its victims every time they are allowed to forget them, to make them invisible or to silence them, in short, to dehumanize them. If Nazism required a process of dehumanization of the victim to carry out the Holocaust, terrorists need a similar process to impose their totalitarian and exclusive project. Now I'm finishing up. The fight against oblivion has enabled our country to develop, over the past decades, an advanced system of comprehensive reparation for the victims of terrorism, a model to be followed by other States and a global benchmark for the recognition of the rights of victims, as the United Nations has also recently recognized. Let us not forget that every week and even every day the list of attacks and victims increases considerably. We must therefore address without excuse the recognition of their rights. Undoubtedly, all States have an unpayable debt to the victims of terrorism, but also a commitment to which they can unfortunately come in the future and with their families. Therefore, from the People's Parliamentary Group we hope to have the greatest possible support for this initiative, especially on a day like today, as a clear demonstration of commitment to memory, truth, dignity and justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u42	Thank you, Mrs. White Garrido. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups and, where appropriate, for the establishment of a position, Mr Xuclà i Costa, first intervenes by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the proposing group, the People's Party, Mrs Blanco, is pursuing the goal of the United Nations finally drawing up an international status for the recognition and protection of the victims of terrorism. It is not the first time that from this rostrum and in this Chamber we have discussed this noble goal of comprehensive reparation. And, as before, it must also be said today that, from a strictly conceptual point of view, it has been difficult to find a peaceful definition of terrorism. As true as this is that terrorism exists and that, without going any further, in a single week we have encountered yesterday's terrorist attacks in Berlin, the Daesh terrorist attacks in Jordan or the terrorist attacks in Kayseri, Turkey. We are at the time of the asymmetric wars, which produce victims who deserve recognition, reparation and, if possible, commissions of truth and come to forgiveness. The aim of the amendment by the Democratic Party is to supplement the proposal by the People's Group that we should not start from scratch in order to achieve this international status of recognition and protection for victims of terrorism; there is the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention of Terrorism, in particular Article 13, guidelines for the protection of victims of terrorism, which expands the scope of the Convention, and a draft European Union directive on terrorism, which enters into the final straight line of its discussion and adoption in the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached an agreement and these amendments have been incorporated, and I therefore announce the vote in favour of my group. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. I begin by expressing the condolences, solidarity and affection of the Navarro People's Union to the families of the victims of so much conflict and so much hatred and by expressing our condemnation and repudiation for the last acts of terror we have known. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about recognition of the victims of terrorism, we do not forget - even if it is far away - the times of fear and shameful silence in which the families of the victims of terror watched over their dead in solitude. It is true that much progress has been made in the recognition and dignity of the victims; it is true. It was something due, something fair, something healing, something moral, in short, something good. And it has been such a successful path that from a time to this part those who have always supported terror are looking for a way to win the story battle now, trying to make us believe that the terror professionals themselves, the terrorists, were and are also involuntary victims of something or someone. Fernando Aramburu, in his last book, Patria, which I highly recommend, describes this perversion in a very correct way when he tells a character - a family member of an age - that they are victims of the victims. We're victims of the victims. And the disease we suffer cannot be described more cruelly or more graphically; a perversion by which some pretend to make us believe that the executioners are equally victims, that is, all the same. We, Mrs Blanco, welcome this initiative and will support it, and add, first, that we are not willing to lower our guard with attempts to legitimize the terror of some; second, that we will continue to denounce all attempts to whitewash the memory of those who decided to impose their regime of terror, hatred and lies on Spanish society; and third, that we will support the measures of support, recognition, dignity and reparation that the sacrifice of the victims demands, as we have done so far, without complexes and without hesitation. We will do it here, in Spain, and also abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u46	Also for the Joint Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u47	Euskal Herria Bildu is going to abstain, and it seems to us that the work that can be done at the United Nations in favour of victims is very important, but the PP has shown that it only attends to international bodies when its recommendations and decisions are to his liking. From international areas of concern for human rights, they too often point to the unwillingness of the PP Government to advance respect for all rights for absolutely all people, in relation to the vengeful prison policy that applies to Basque prisoners and their families, who were assaulted and harassed this past weekend when they travelled to Granada and Huelva to visit their relatives, forced to carry out hundreds of kilometres of additional punishment that does not obey the law and less respect for human rights, or in relation to the repeated refusal to investigate allegations of torture. And not only that, they refuse even to recognize the status of victims to many people who have suffered the violence, as if the perpetrator of the violence could be reason to deny someone the status of victim. And it is that if we want to work for the victims with guarantees of success, we must recognize and repair all of them without exception and also offer guarantees of non-repetition. This should not only be the result of the efforts and involvement of external actors; it should also be the result of the abandonment of the blocking attitude that the Government has been maintaining and that prevents us from approaching that horizon and achieving peace. The PP is rather doing the opposite, arresting this very week representatives of civil society in Euskal Herria who wanted to contribute to the disarmament of ETA, which, unlike the Government, is demonstrating the will to do so unilaterally if there is no other way. The members of the People's Party do not want peace; they listen deafly when they do not criminalize the authoritative voices in the area of conflict resolution that they try to help and are limited to hindering the steps that are being taken or that some are willing to take. Therefore, recognition of the victims, work for the victims, yes, but let's start by recognizing them all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u49	Good afternoon. Article 8 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 2.3 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights, among other international treaties, recognize the right to freedom, justice and reparation of victims of human rights, of all victims without exclusion, of whom we are close, of whom we are less close, of whom we are far away, but also of all victims of the last forty years in the Spanish State, who are victims of ETA, of the LAGs or of the forty years of Francoism. However, gentlemen of the People's Party, you have a biased view of the victims, establishing ideological differences between them. They have given outstanding samples of these differentiations. Not in vain, while you are demanding that the UN defend the justice and reparation of the victims of terrorism, you are preventing the justice and reparation of the victims of Francoism, which the UN itself is demanding. For example, Lluís Companys, like so many thousands of victims of Francoism, remains a criminal in the eyes of Spanish legality, without obtaining any redress or justice. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana agrees to promote an international status of recognition and protection for victims of terrorism that recognizes their rights, but we demand that these same rights be recognized to all victims, as mandated by international law. We will abstain, but we agree that there is and that an international status should be promoted. On the other hand, it would be good for us to reflect on the difficulty of defining terrorism, and I will give you a practical example that we will all understand. Is the terrorist the one who invades a country without the protection of international legality and the United Nations, as you did with Iraq, or is the terrorist the one who defends himself by means of arms against the occupation of his country? Indeed, one of the main obstacles to the non-existence of this international status is the inability to agree on the definition of terrorism in view of the flexibility and laxity with which States, all States, use the term according to their ideological conception and who holds government power at every moment. Some who were qualified as terrorists and participated in organizations that were qualified as terrorists were then awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Therefore, there are no precise definitions and it depends at every moment on the States that qualify a particular organization and certain persons as terrorists. There are no absolute truths in this matter. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Capella. The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u51	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to join in condemning the recent terrorist attacks and solidarity with their victims. The purpose of the non-legislative proposal under discussion is to continue and advance the path taken by the United Nations in relation to terrorism, in particular with its victims in terms of their right to truth or recognition, right to reparation or right to justice, ultimately an international status with respect to the victims of terrorism, as already exists at the international and European level in general for the victims of crime, in particular those affecting fundamental rights. In this regard, our group will support the non-legislative proposal discussed. The victims of terrorism have been and are the subject of political action by our party and also by the Basque Government. That is why we demand and demand that ETA, as one of the requirements for normalization and coexistence, not only its total, unconditional and verifiable disarmament, but also its disappearance, as well as the recognition of the unjust damage caused to the victims. They are pending subjects to certify the definitive closure of the devastating cycle of our past. In order to write a new page, the previous one must be closed properly and properly, and for that to happen, the final closure of the past must also be addressed, in our view, the articulation of a prison policy in accordance with the circumstances and the resocialization and social reintegration of prisoners and the revision of the legal architecture and security policies that are not in keeping with our time. To this end, however, we must overcome the paralysis demonstrated after the definitive cessation of violence by the state institutions, both in the orderly end of ETA and in the consequences of its unjustified violence, which we believe contrasts with the proposed activity of the Basque Government and its lehendakari, which has so far and unfortunately not been shared by the central Government. An orderly end to a period of violence that has lasted more than five decades has basically, in our view, four major components: a unilateral certificate of an irreversible, unconditional, verifiable and definitive nature of the disarmament and disappearance of ETA; a critical reflection on all forms of terrorism and human rights violations caused in the past; a commitment to truth, reparation and recognition of the unjust damage caused to all victims; and the activation of a prison policy aimed at coexistence and reintegration. On the other hand, a disorderly end of violence has more unpredictable consequences from the point of view of promoting a renewed coexistence; it tarnishes the future, because it places in the uncertainty both the determination of the moment of the final end of terrorism and the beginning of a new time, and also leaves in precarious the recognition of the evil caused to the victims and the articulation of a memory that carries a shared pedagogy for coexistence or the consolidation of a context without pretexts to promote another prison policy and reintegration. We move between an orderly end or a disorderly end of violence and it is necessary to seal a basic agreement of coexistence that welcomes the widest expression of the pluralism of society on ethical and democratic values and that is based on four principles: to reject any form of legitimization of violence, not to accept the minimization of human rights violations of other signs, to rule out any compensatory justification between violence and to avoid discrimination between victims. I'm finishing up. In the defense of the victims you will always find us, and we hope we can also find you, the People's Party, in the process of an orderly end to the violence that has lasted five decades. As a sign of goodwill, they could begin by re-thinking the announcement of the unconstitutionality appeal against Act No. 12/2016 of the Basque Parliament on reparation to victims of human rights violations in the context of politically motivated violence in the Basque Autonomous Community between 1978 and 1999. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to discuss an initiative concerning the victims of terrorism just hours after terror has re-acted in Turkey and with all the cautions that are still required in investigations possibly opened in Switzerland and Germany. Therefore, the first thing at the moment is to express once again in my name, in the name of my parliamentary group and in the name of my party the radical condemnation that deserves any terrorist action, of whatever sign, and the recognition and remembrance of the victims. We would like not to have to repeat these words, but these are the times in which we live and, unfortunately, the condemnation of violence in Spain - and outside it too - cannot always be given, of course, in all political forces. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely the victims of terrorism, as I said, that brings us to this rostrum today. The aim of the non-legislative proposal presented to us by the People's Group is for this House to support the proposal launched by Spain for the UN to adopt an international status for the recognition and protection of victims of terrorism. Such a status would oblige States to care for, protect and support victims regardless of where they reside or where they have suffered the attack. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know that the current Act on Victims of Terrorism in Spain does not identify these cases as victims and, in fact, you have had to resort to a kind of wittyness so that some of the victims - for example, of the Paris attacks - have been qualified as victims of terrorism, arguing that the terrorist organization that committed the attack was one that had already been attacked in Spain. I think this is great but it would be good if we applied it first here. We would like any Spanish victim to be recognized in any attack he has suffered anywhere. [[Mrs. Blanco Garrido makes negative signs]] Yes, Mrs. White, it is. In fact, if Boko Haram's lords today made an attack and a Spaniard was involved, that person could not legally be considered a victim of terrorism outside Spain. This is fine, but we have to understand that what needs to be done is to apply ourselves first to our own laws and change them to be able to identify as a victim of terrorism any Spanish outside Spanish territory that has suffered an attack by any terrorist organization. Go ahead, then, our support for this initiative and for any other initiative that effectively assists in the recognition, protection and reparation of the victims of terrorism of any sign and anywhere. In Spain we are fully aware. The victims have been examples of struggle and strength during the fifty years of terrorism. Terrorism also seeks to dehumanize the victims and this status would be a clear demonstration that democratic States cannot - and will not - allow that macabre objective. It is necessary that the suffering suffered by the victims as a result of the terror be exposed in all its cruelty in order to delegitimize the discourse of terrorists and their allies and fellow travellers. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you tell us that Spain already has a comprehensive system of protection for victims, which is a model of reference at world level, but many of the associations of victims of terrorism do not tell us the same thing, pointing out that the Government has not protected victims as they deserve. Moreover, they speak of a lack of leadership on the part of the Government in the defence, protection and recognition of victims. That is why, in the investiture agreement signed with the People's Party, citizens included, among the one hundred and fifty demands, concrete measures in this direction - and I quote - of our agreement: first, to maintain a comprehensive strategy against terrorism by persecuting terrorists and collaborating where they are; secondly, to denounce and persecute any act of exaltation or tribute to terrorists; thirdly, to prevent with all possible means the spread and dissemination of their ideas, and fourthly - lastly and not least - to recognize fully and permanently the memory of all the victims of terrorism as an example of the defence of freedom and democracy. It gives us the feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that on this very important issue, as on almost everything else, the Government drags its feet until it is forced to act. We will therefore support this initiative, but we do not share its triumphalism, as many of the victims of terrorism, who are the protagonists and the real object of today's debate, do not share it - and this is really relevant. Before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out the recent demonstrations by some of the parties represented in this House both in relation to the incidents in Alsasua and the arrests made in France last week by the Civil Guard and the French authorities. These reactions, improper of true democrats, remind us that we cannot lower the guard and that it is necessary to continue counting clearly what terrorism has meant and involves in terms of suffering for so many people, in order to prevent the triumph of the dehumanization that the killers claim, and remind us also that the law is, at last, the most powerful weapon against terror. Let us make our experience as a country in the fight against terrorism valuable within the framework of international reinforcements aimed at combating it, and let us work for the maximum protection of the United Nations and other international agencies towards the victims of terrorism. They and they are a permanent example of firmness and dignity. Terrorism has killed, tortured, maimed and destroyed families, but it will never be able to erase that dignity. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Viejo Viñas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we want to join in the condemnations of the attacks, logically, and express our condolences to the victims. For millennia man has been what was for Aristotle: a living animal capable of political existence. Modern man is an animal in whose politics his life is called into question as a living being. With these words monsieur Foucault reminds us that the threat of violent death, and with it terror, has always accompanied modern politics. We only know the guarantees of the rule of law and democratic government against it. The way terror protrudes can be tearing and spectacular. Yesterday we had the opportunity to see it with apprehension in Germany and Turkey, but the best response cannot be born of improvisation under the state of shock, but must be born of the best democratic government. The People's Party is presenting us today with a non-legislative proposal of just one paragraph which does not go far beyond a declaration of intentions - which in any case, fortunately, seems to have been improved by the transactional amendment of the Catalan Democratic Party - and I say that it raises a declaration of intentions without even providing us with the general outlines of its proposal. We are also being asked in this transaction to support - this is also for the Catalan Democratic Party - a directive that is still pending approval, with which we do not know exactly what we would ultimately be supporting. Finally, in the light of the explanatory statement, we note that this non-legislative proposal, which has been demonstrated in the past, is a skewed notion of terrorism which is overly marked by domestic policy and is not very attentive to the international level, which, by the way, has become doubly highlighted as a result of yesterday's events. On the pretext of invoking the universality of values and the horror of their extreme violation in other countries, the People's Party seems to want to prolong the spectrum of a conflict whose end it has not wanted to face as a peace process. Today, however, it highlights the limited scope of this vision of what terrorism is. It could not be otherwise because, as I say, this is the crux of the matter. In any case, we welcome any initiative at the international level aimed at placing the right to truth, justice and reparation for all victims at the centre of the agenda, and when we all say that we are also referring to victims who have not just been included in the case series presented in this explanatory statement. We believe that it is important to recall them and to bear in mind that in recent years thousands of people around the world have suffered violations of their fundamental rights, that in many countries they have not been able to exercise their own rights under international law in the area of the right to truth, justice and reparation. On 21 October last, the Spanish Government chaired a meeting of the United Nations Security Council to promote the creation of an international statute for the protection of victims. However, we have some doubts about this initiative. The first and most obvious one affects the added value of this initiative. We wonder what there is or what is missing. Finally, we would like the People's Party to explain why it understands that the measures already in place in the legislation do not apply and why this existing framework needs to be extended when, strictly speaking, we have not yet achieved the maximum of benefits conferred by the legislation. After all, if we emerge from this difficult-to-define debate, what terrorism is, it would suffice us to uphold the principle of non-discrimination, a peremptory norm of international law that requires the equal respect of the rights of all victims of all crimes involving the violation of human rights. We understand that there is already a long way to go here and in this sense we are surprised. I would like to end, Mr President, if I may, with words of sympathy in German for the German people, which I will read very quickly. It is the same as in Spanish, but in German: Zuletz, möchte ich heute allen Menschen in Deutschland meine tiefe Trauer und mein herzliches Beileid aussprechen, besonders jenen, die Angehörige und Freunde verloren haben. Many thanks, eskerrik asko, many thanks, many thanks. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Old Man. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to add the support of my parliamentary group to the support of other political groups in this House for yesterday's attacks and, of course, also to extend our full support to the victims of those disastrous attacks. Unity in the face of terrorism is what makes us strong. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum with the recent memory of the hundreds of victims of attacks in different parts of the world over the past few weeks. I have the honour of being in the same rostrum from which Ernest Lluch defended the need for all citizens to enjoy a public, free and universal health system. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the determination of people such as José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba or Patxi López, it was possible to put an end to what Eduardo Madina defined as a factory of terror in our country, a factory that only produced pain. But the defeat of terrorism was not only possible with political determination; the end of ETA terrorism has been a collective success of our country. The time of forced coexistence with terrorism has left too many broken lives, hundreds of broken families and many people in need of recognition, support and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we can all remember exactly what we were doing that fateful morning of 11 March 2004, as we knew the worst attack in our history; a massacre that made us understand that what happened in New York on 11 September had its continuation in Madrid and that its perpetrators were thousands of kilometres from our border. We understand that terrorism was not only an internal problem, but was a global phenomenon that required the implementation of strategies for international cooperation. Terrorism has hit cities such as Madrid, New York or Brussels, but also and even more virulently others such as Cairo, Kabul or Istanbul or regions such as Lake Chad, where more than 14,000 people have been killed by Boko Haram since 2009. In addition, in many countries, terrorism adds to other problems, such as the fragility of democratic systems, poor economic development, health problems or difficulties in accessing education and, as a further devastating element, inequality. Women and children suffer the worst consequences of terrorism, not only because they are sometimes a direct target, but also because their level of protection and guarantee of their rights is lower than that of men. Cooperation among States is the main tool against terrorism and also to ensure greater protection for victims, and in this area we are obliged to be part of the group of nations that lead decision-making. We cannot look elsewhere, our commitment must be clear, making available to the international community everything we have learned in the fight against terrorism and our legal, institutional and social model generated around the protection of victims. Spain must return to the path set by previous governments in terms of cooperation, and to that end it must give it a leading role on the political agenda and on the public agenda. It is not only about providing more economic resources, it is also about returning to international agencies in a participatory manner. Gentlemen of the PP, I am going to ask you to clarify yourselves in such a sensitive matter that it affects tens of thousands of people around the world. It cannot be that yesterday Mrs Levy associates terrorism and the clash of civilizations by deepening our differences and that today we are debating in Parliament her proposal to seek international unity with regard to the protection of victims. They cannot speak today of cooperation and greater presence in international bodies, when over the past five years they have sprayed development cooperation funds and made Spain a secondary player in the international sphere. Gentlemen of the PP, spend less time embarrassing themselves in disputes and spend more time rethinking their security policy, refugee reception policy, foreign policy and cooperation policy. Today, out of responsibility, because in the DNA of socialists is justice, the defense of human rights and because we must all participate in the support of the victims, reside where they reside, will have the support of my group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. For the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments tabled, I ask you, Mrs Blanco: does your group accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u59	Yes, Mr. President. We have tabled a compromise amendment with the Catalan Democratic Party, which we have already sent to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u60	All right, we'll take it into account for the vote. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament (CGE) AND GUARANTEE OF THE LABORAL CONDITIONS OF ROOMS IN THE TOURIST SECTOR. [[File number 162/000237]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u61	Next item: No law proposal by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the improvement and guarantee of the working conditions of housekeepers in the tourism sector. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mrs Bosaho Gori.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea presents this proposal no. of law, regarding the improvement and guarantee of the working conditions of the housekeepers, in view of the serious situation that affects the aforementioned workers in the tourism sector. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin my intervention by quoting the definition of the term slavery as contained in the Dictionary of the Royal Academy of Spanish Language. It says: 'Excessive subjection by which one person is subjected to another, or to a job or obligation'. It is precisely, ladies and gentlemen, a slave job and the workers who are subject to it, to what I am going to refer to today. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the tourism sector in Spain is one of the most important locomotives in the national economy. Last year, tourism contributed nothing more and nothing less than EUR 124 billion to the state's coffers, accounting for a total of 11.7% of gross domestic product. Thanks to these results Spain holds the third world position in terms of international tourists that the country itself receives. We are the second in tourism spending and the third in national tourism competitiveness. To date, the partial data for 2016 point in the direction of a closure of this exercise with a new historical record. We are talking about a key sector of our productive fabric that brings benefits to the entire state. But these benefits do not come alone, in part they come from the effort and health of thousands and thousands of working women who do not get 2 euros to clean and fix a hotel room. They are the housekeepers, the workers to whom, if I remember correctly, a Member of the People's Group compared with a medical brother who worked in a health centre, or to know where. How frivolous this person is! [[Applauds]] We announced - we committed ourselves to this - that we were going to take initiatives to put an end to the work and the exploitation of labour in hotels, and we are doing so. The primary objective of this non-law proposal is to put an end to the precariousness and intolerable working conditions in this country in the twenty-first century. Last week my colleague Maria Pita said here from this rostrum that the greatness of a society is measured by its ability to respect and dignify its most vulnerable groups. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, with your labour reform have helped to mistreat and condemn the workers of our country and, more painfully, the housekeepers. The discussions that seek to justify the need for improvements and new investments in the sector show that work in tourism is the great absentee of this debate. I'm not saying it, they say it's tourism experts. I am talking to you about a labour force of more than 100,000 women representing 30 per cent of the overall workforce in the tourism sector at the national level, women working in practically subhuman conditions. These women, ladies and gentlemen, are employees who exercise their profession under precarious conditions and with remunerations that hardly allow them to reach the minimum inter-professional wage. In short, the working group of the housekeepers is exposed to a risk of social exclusion, not forgetting the insecurity added to the temporality by being hired in part or by chaining contracts during tourist seasons. Studies have shown that in recent years these groups have lost 60% of their purchasing power. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an extremely undervalued labour sector in comparative terms, a sector whose reality requires urgent measures, a labour sector which, in addition to being part of that tourist locomotive, feeds State revenue. It is also a showcase of great importance for the external projection of the historical and cultural natural heritage of our country. Failing and ignoring the problem of these women workers would mean recognizing a perverse bias in labour relations, removing them from the factors of equality that must be demanded of any democratic society that is reputable, as we want it to be ours. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u63	Mrs. Bosaho, just a moment. I beg your silence, please. The speaker has to be heard. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, a greater competitiveness of the tourism industry depends to a large extent on the development of comprehensive plans that provide for certain actions for housekeepers, such as an increase in the number of labour and social security inspectors capable of carrying out the necessary controls to smooth the draconian working conditions in which this sector operates. There is also an urgent need for a study on occupational health of the ergonomic and psychosocial conditions of these workers in order to guide the necessary measures to be taken so that they can carry out their activity in a non-injurious manner. From the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we believe that the profitability and sustainability of the tourist activity cannot be placed behind the back of the people who make it possible. In this case, they are women workers to whom we all owe a respect and must commit ourselves from State institutions to dignifying their activity. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to unanimously seek solutions to end abusive practices in this activity. Tourist lobbies cannot and should not add dividends at the expense of these women's lives. If they continue to do so, they will face us as before; and when I say they will face us, so will the women. We stand by those who have managed to organize and fight for their labour rights by demanding a fair agreement to avoid outsourcing as a means of exploitation.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u65	Mrs. Bosaho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u66	From this rostrum today we want to be his voice. Ladies and gentlemen, it is for all the above reasons that we call for the non-palliative repeal of Law 3/2012 of 6 July of urgent measures for labour reform, the law that causes the absolute lack of defence of workers in this country, which causes the company agreements and/or outsourced services to be below the collective agreements of the different sectors, reducing working conditions, increasing exploitation, precariousness and workload. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that housekeepers are a real example of what should not be done in terms of work in this country. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u67	In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups and to lay down a position, Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, spoke by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. The description of the conditions of precariousness and penosity suffered by the housekeepers and the account that Mrs Bosaho Gori has made in defence of this proposal are incomplete and misleading. This is not an exclusive problem of the Government of Spain. There are other channels to try to cut it. In their desire to disqualify labour reforms, that of the People's Party and that of the Socialist Party, the promoters of this initiative have made no mention of the existence of the state-level labor agreement for the hospitality sector, ALEH V; framework agreement that was signed last year with effect until the end of 2019 and which applies to companies and workers in the hospitality sector, to all. Among its chapters, the agreement establishes a very relevant one on occupational risk prevention, including a safety and health commission at work that has countless significant tasks and powers that are discarded in this initiative. It is an instrument created in democracy, negotiated, agreed and signed by representative trade union organizations and also business. At the Forum, we believe that the value of the rule of law should not be discarded, that the Government should be blamed for all the evils and that it should be ignored that there have also been many people and organizations who have worked hard to reach agreements since 1995, which have corrected and advanced labour rights with the Constitution and the Workers'Statute as guarantors. Much remains to be done, everything can be improved, of course, but the original initiative of Unido Podemos has ignored the relevance of the state hotel agreement and has also discarded our important legal instruments and public agencies, which already allow to apply formulas to combat exploitation and to tackle the infamous and harmful working conditions, such as those suffered by maids of flats and other professionals of the tourist trade. I'm done, Mr. President. I have tabled an amendment which, among other things, enhances our advanced labour legislation and the agreed instruments governing today in the hospitality sector, which have been being renewed and improved for two decades. It seems that a compromise amendment will be signed, with which I will support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Certainly this initiative before us is timely, it is part of the debate that is currently taking place in the field of labour relations - in fact it is perfectly linked with the legislative initiative that we are going to take into consideration by the Socialist Group - and it highlights that the processes of subcontracting and decentralization in certain business activities are creating problems. Therefore, welcome be this initiative. We will see whether those issues can be resolved in the legislative process we are going to adopt this afternoon. My group wants to insist on a couple of ideas that we have previously put forward. Firstly, the problem will not be so much the regulation of subcontracting as the role of collective bargaining and the enterprise agreement in these matters. My group would like to recall that when we support the labour reform of the People's Party we oppose this prevalence of the enterprise agreement. I recommend that your ladies and gentlemen read the FIDE Foundation report, which in this matter invites us all - also the People's Party, the PSOE, the PNV, the Republican Left, the Citizens, us, and the rest of the comrades of the Joint Group - to adequately rethink this balance between collective bargaining at sectoral and enterprise level. It is clear that the initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and its allies puts the emphasis on an issue that we must not lose sight of, and that the improvement of the competitive position of our business, including that of the tourism sector, cannot be based solely on the competition for lower wages. At this point, my group would like to take advantage of this intervention to disagree with the salary supplement that Citizens propose to us, because it subsidizes cheap employment with the taxes of all citizens. I do not think it is reasonable for taxpayers to help finance those companies that pay wages under the market. My group therefore insists that, in order to combat precariousness, the battle lies in collective bargaining, increasing the inter-professional minimum wage and investing in training for workers throughout their lives. If we want our productive model to be competitive, not in wages of misery but in added value, we are not in favour of ideas such as wage supplement. In any case, we are still awaiting the compromise proposal on this non-legislative proposal. Depending on the specific text, we will decide the meaning of our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u71	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. One hundred thousand women in Spain, fifteen thousand in the Canary Islands, young, strong and healthy. And why do I say young, strong and healthy? Because it is impossible for a woman flat-room maid in this country and with the labour standards we have at the moment to get to retirement, to get sick or to quit, because in the end they are going to fire her. The other day an important businessman in the tourism sector like Antonio Catalán, president of AC, said: Today, with labor laws, I can fire twenty days and subcontract, and the housekeepers in this country are exploiting them. Antonio Catalán said it, not a trade unionist said it, but one of the main tourism entrepreneurs. In the Canary Islands we have an agreement, in the case of Tenerife, where subcontracting is prohibited, but the problem is that the agreements are not being implemented. In the Canary Islands it may be less effort, but there is, because we have tourist season all year round. But it is not the same thing to clean a room, or what is called an exit in the tourist sector, as an office. The abuse that is currently being done to the housekeepers, working at a standstill, is a public issue. I recommend that everyone read the blog where brave women tell their lives, how diseases begin, how they urge each other to rejoin each other, and how they are finally fired. We are a proud country of tourist destination and we have to fight for excellence, and excellence implies training, quality and not exploitation. Dignity, justice, inspection and enforcement of conventions, hospitality and non-cleaning agreements. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Group too, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u74	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the policies of Merkel's Europe have turned the Spanish state into a resort, in the resort of Europe, a kind of theme park with all the services. We are the place of holiday par excellence within the Union, good, nice and cheap, and this particularly affects coastal areas, such as the Valencià Country, for example, where contracts in tourist season are increasingly in unacceptable conditions and with wages of shame. Well, nice and cheap, at the expense of the labor rights of the people who care for the sector, a good place to go on vacation if we ignore that collective agreements are avoided, if we close our eyes to situations of exploitation and semi-slavery. Well, nice and cheap, with precarious contracts, with partial days that end up lasting all day, with sloppy women cleaning a hotel room for 2 euros. If we count, with 2 euros per room we have to make eighteen rooms a day in order not to reach 800 euros per month, and it seems that this to Mr Casado does not seem to be an exaggeration. He said that his brother, who is a doctor, has to visit the same average of patients a day. It seems to us to be a fallacious argument, since we must dignify very hard and poorly paid work, although for Mr Casado's tranquility we have also managed to approve a GNP to improve the working conditions of the health sector, which we are also concerned about, and a lot. As I said, good, nice and cheap, thanks to the precarious work that we have assimilated without complaints, comparing ourselves with that 20% of unemployed people. In the end, we are all victims of their labor reforms, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. We do not expect more from the people who equated emigration with the adventurous spirit or who consider that it generates the same physical fatigue to visit patients than to scrub knee floors. That is why, since Compromís, we sincerely hope that today we will get out of here giving the floor waitresses a joy and putting a solution to what we should never have allowed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to explain my group's position on this GNP. As in many Podemos initiatives, we have a shared diagnosis. We all know - especially in my case that I come from Las Palmas - how is the tourism and hospitality sector and the situation suffered by the housekeepers. We all know those unworthy wages, those conditions in which they have to work from sun to sun, that they end up exhausted and that only, as Mrs Oramas said, young and strong women can have the capacity to endure these exhaustive days. Our amendment is intended, in this case, to make sense of what a patch is for us. And we go back, as my colleague Sergio said before, to having a patch with this proposal that brings us the United Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. What is clear to us is that the labour reforms established by both the Socialist Party and the People's Party have not given a solution to the situation in our labour market, where there is a clear impoverishment of the workers. Mr. Campuzano said he didn't understand our salary supplement. I have to tell you, Mr Campuzano, that our wage supplement does not subsidise employers but workers. We want to end precisely this precarious wage situation, because that is the only way we will have decent wages for this country. [[Applauds]] In the proposal brought by the Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, a series of reducing coefficients for floor waitresses is established. Of course, it is a job that requires a high physical effort and, therefore, could have, like the fishing or mining collective, that reducing coefficient when retiring earlier. But then, why not, we could also add to the transporters on behalf of others, to the domestic workers, to the geriatric professionals who also spend their efforts to care for our dependents. We understand that, logically, what needs to be done is a deep and serious reflection on the needs of our labour market. We agree on the need for this new labour framework; a new labour framework where we establish these new relationships, where we have a new Workers' Statute that addresses each and every one of the needs of the present. We are waiting for Mrs Báñez - who is not here with us today - to call us to sit down with the social partners, with the trade unions and, of course, with all the parties to establish, once and for all, this new model that will solve the problem. For example, we have already been struck by the High Court of Justice of the European Union, we cannot allow jobs in which, despite the fact that we are doing the same work, there are workers with decent pay conditions and yet at the same job other workers are under unworthy conditions of precariousness and temporaryity. We have to end once and for all the different working conditions for the same job. Today we are going to ask, because they have sent us a compromise, a vote on points. We agree that the conditions of housewives need to be improved; but, of course, we are much more in agreement that what we need to establish is a new labour system, a new labour framework, a new labour regulation that, once and for all, eliminates precariousness, temporality and this labour market, that the only thing that it does is to impoverish the workers of this country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u78	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group fully agrees to improve the working conditions of workers, particularly those sectors which, like the one we are dealing with, are suffering, to a greater extent, from the consequences of the deregulation caused by the labour reform of the People's Party. Proof of this is the proposal for a law which we have submitted a while ago, and which seeks to ensure equal working conditions for outsourced employees. The labour reform of 2012 has led to precarious employment and working conditions in this and many other sectors. Although its incidence is cross-cutting, its effects are more noticeable in those jobs which, like the one we now hold, are generally less qualified and more defenceless in the face of abuse; in those sectors where outsourcing has been unequivocally synonymous with deregulation and precariousness. The labor reform that the Socialist Party wants today to start repealing with initiatives such as the one presented a while ago, as I said, not only leads us to ridiculous situations, to embarrassing situations such as calling employment a contract that barely lasts a week, but to experiences such as that of the group of housekeepers. Many of them - yes, they, because they are a highly feminized collective - have seen and lived as they replaced what until recently were stable contracts by wage-precarized subcontracts that lead them to unacceptable working conditions, without limits or hourly controls and that end up losing their health in addition to their economy. So much so that they have been unable and organized to denounce it publicly; even Ernest Cañada has published a book that gathers his bitter experiences. So much so, ladies and gentlemen, that some prestigious hotel chain has put forward the dignity of a contract that really deserves that appeal to what its president, Antonio Catalán, considers to be nothing but exploitation and that it does bring considerable benefits, especially to multi-service companies that pay their employees 40% less. It would be false to argue that this precarious situation has been brought about solely because of the crisis. At the outset, under no circumstances can the economic crisis be used or used as an excuse to cause suffering in any group of workers or to cause worse working conditions. If one is to be found guilty of this deterioration of the working conditions of the housekeepers and other collectives, that is nothing other than the labour reform of the People's Party. It is true that the possibility of outsourcing services already existed before the reform, but only from it, only since 2012, are business agreements prioritized against sectoral ones. In short, the People's Party has turned outsourcing into the ideal, perfect instrument to achieve the primary purpose of its reform: the reduction of workers' rights and a drastic drop in their wages. That is why we have just discussed a proposal for a law; I am not going to dwell on it, because it has already been perfectly exposed in its content by the deputy Tamara Raya. For this reason, and while we support the spirit and intent of the initiative you are presenting, we believe that it is better for your exhibition section and - more importantly - for the device. That is why we are not only referring, as I said, to the proposal for a law that we have tabled, but we have always, in the spirit of improvement, drawn up an amendment to the GNP that we are now dealing with. Our contribution seeks to place where the debate on what types of activities are likely to be included as particularly painful, dangerous and harmful for the purpose of early retirement, and that place is none other than the Commission for the Monitoring and Evaluation of the Agreements of the Toledo Pact. That Commission has already, in fact, among its priorities for this mandate, the task to which we are referring, and the Toledo Pact must ensure that there are no differentiations in the consideration of this anticipation in the age of the housekeepers in relation to other professions that could also claim it. As I say to you, the precision of language is not precisely the strength of this non-law proposition. At times they insinuate, without coming to terms, and when in point 4 they speak of 'proposing a new legal framework...' we have to assume that in an euphemistic way they are referring precisely to our proposal to amend Article 42 of the Staff Regulations on subcontracting. If so, they will agree that this is the first thing we should do. In short, the situation in many deplorable cases of this group deserves swift action to avoid that these workers, who in some cases are in the same centre, hotel or apartments with identical hours and developing the same functions, cover much less than their companions depending on whether they are subcontracted or not. In the autonomous parliaments, where tourism is of great importance, we have promoted and supported - and have prospered - similar initiatives. We have done so in my country, in Catalonia, also in Andalusia or in the Valencian Community, in Balearic Islands or in the Canary Islands. Ladies and gentlemen, our choice is unequivocal and we have reiterated it this afternoon: the same work, the same salary. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Guinart. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that from the People's Group we agree on the need to solve the problems that the housekeepers are having in our country. But I want to start by telling the spokesman for Podemos that you are doing very well to bring that problem to this House, but that, as a legal representative, you should accompany those women, who here have said that you know and know that they are enslaved, exploited and mistreated at work, to a court to denounce those abuses. That's your responsibility as a public representative. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I am also not going to admit that you are presenting yourself to the People's Party here as if we were tyrants. Don't confuse people anymore, because you don't. We are a party that has supported a government that has created 1,890 000 jobs and that, unlike you, we discharge in Social Security the people who work for us. [[Applauds]] Of course we are concerned about the well-being and working conditions of the housekeepers, it could not be otherwise. This government cares about workers and their safety, and that is why it gets to work when irregularities are detected. This is a sector that is also labour-intensive. According to data from the labour force survey... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u81	Wait a minute, Mrs. Navarro. One moment, please. I request your silence and respect for the speaker on the floor. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. In Spain there were about 320,000 workers in hotels, of which between 65,000 and 96,000 would be housekeepers, taking into account that they represent 20% or 30% of the staff. And it is true that the tourism sector to ensure its competitiveness in a globalized environment has for years resorted to corporate subcontracting as a more productive form of organization, a form of decentralization that is becoming increasingly important in the developed economy and also expands to all other sectors, a form of production that has its constitutional basis in article 38 of the Spanish Constitution and defends the principle of freedom of enterprise, and that also has an express recognition in the Workers' Statute as well as in other laws. But, as well as being respectful of freedom of enterprise, we know that we must also ensure that the law of 26 December 2012 is complied with, which fights against irregular employment and social security fraud. All this does not remove that unfortunately - it is a fact found - there is fraud of law. We know this and, in order to stop these practices, the Government has stepped up its planned inspection activities, including its integrated action plan, through a specific campaign aimed at better monitoring compliance by companies and thus detecting abuses and correcting them. This is a set of actions that have proved effective and that advise to intensify these campaigns in general and those concerning female maids in particular. The Directorate-General for Labour and Social Security sent 64 officials this year to the areas where there is the greatest tourist activity, 32 to the Balearic Islands and 32 to the Canary Islands. The results of this inspection process to date are 8,982 workers, almost 9,000, whose temporary contracts have become indefinite or increased their working hours, resulting in an increase in wages and social security contributions. Finally, we are aware that there are aspects such as forced postures, overwork, work overload or the high rate of work, which are factors that increase the appearance of muscle-skeletal injuries and diseases resulting from the work of floor attendants, which are reasons why it is advisable to take them into consideration by companies and social prevention services. Of course we are not happy, the Government of the People's Party and the People's Party, which is behind it, is not happy either. It is clear that the formula must be pursued in order to be able to fix all this and that is what is being done by the People's Party. I would also like to say that an amendment has been tabled from my group. I know that there has been important work in trying to achieve a compromise amendment in which we could all be included, but unfortunately, even sharing most of that compromise amendment that has been reached, there is one point that we cannot share. We have raised two alternative points, but they do not seem to intend to accept them, but rather to make the agreement more difficult. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs Navarro. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group in position-setting. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second part of a debate that we just had a moment ago with the legislative proposal put to us by the Socialist Group, because one of the consequences of that debate is precisely this specific phenomenon, this permissive regulation in one sector, that of women workers in the tourism sector, of female employees in the flats, especially punished and vulnerable. We start from a clear and compelling statement: the floor waitresses of the tourism sector is, like others, but in particular and because of their characteristics, a vulnerable sector. We will rely on the Dictionary of the Royal Spanish Academy to define the vulnerable word: It is that which can be injured or receive injury, physical or moral. I do not intend to state that this or any other job that is vulnerable is a job that leads to physical or moral injury or injury, but it is true that one must begin by recognizing one thing: vulnerability, in the workplace, is the probability of materializing undesirable consequences for the worker precisely because he has been exposed to the risk corresponding to the functions proper to his job. With this definition I only intend to justify the need to take measures to avoid these undesirable consequences, because there is a certain risk - the consequences of the certain risk suffered by a certain group such as that of the floor waitresses - and also to admit that this certain risk is derived not only from the ordinary exercise of their functions, but also from the deregulation of their activity. The realization of risks at work always implies an injury that must be corrected not only once it happens, but also prevented before it happens, all of which - I stress all - take measures to prevent its production. Therefore, in all these debates it is necessary to recall article 19 of the Workers' Statute, which stipulates the guarantee of workers' safety and health at work, and this obligation extends not only to employers but also, under article 40.2 of the Constitution, to all public authorities. This Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is also public power. Therefore, and without prejudice to agreeing with many of the proposals made in the non-legislative proposal, I will stop at one that is the main cause of the weakening of the situation of female floor workers in the tourism sector and, in turn, is the weakening of the effectiveness of collective agreements because they materially constitute a breach both of the principle referred to in article 40 of the Constitution and of the guarantee of effectiveness which the Constitution itself regulates in its article 37. In other words, among the causes that have been described as justifications for the situation of unprotectiveness and vulnerability in which this group finds itself, the one that in our view can have a more intense impact on the situation of vulnerability of the group of housekeepers is the possibility that the regulation of their activity has been disconnected from the guarantees offered by their collective treatment, because it has also become the object not of the relationship between the specialized company and the worker, but of the relationship between the contracting company and the provider of the service. This is a consequence of the escape from the effectiveness of the specialized convention. This is what makes it possible to refer working conditions to those of another more generic, less concrete and therefore more alien and causing greater specific risk in this sector, because the important thing in circumstances such as these is to warn that we are faced with a clear diagnosis, and not only of the effects, also of the causes that motivate it and of the measures that would reduce those risks. [[Rumors]] In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, it is not idle to point out that this sector and this risk constitute a specific area whose collective treatment, without legislation allowing for business disengagement, would have made it possible to sustain more effective sectoral agreements in the prevention and treatment of their risks and, therefore, to reduce their vulnerability. [[Rumors]] I see everyone delighted and very attentive in addition to what I'm saying. I say it from the existing rumor, that I don't know if I hear myself too. I therefore understand that it is necessary not only to add our support for the proposed measures but also to make special mention of the necessary attention to another measure to which I have referred, namely the amendment of Articles 82.3, 83.2 and 85 of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute, since its current wording allows for the disengagement and ineffectiveness of the conventions. We believe that it is a priority to strengthen those sectoral aspects referred to in the first point of the proposal and we believe that this should also be reflected in the modification of the effectiveness of collective agreements. The rest seems unacceptable to us, except for the proposal referred to in paragraph 5, which, with all due respect to the proponents, we believe should be referred to the Toledo Pact. For this reason and for all the reasons I have argued before, we will vote in favour of this non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u85	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. How easy it is to talk about justice when you don't work as a floor waiter, how easy it is to talk about justice when at the weekend on the Costa Dorada there are only one or two labour inspectors, how easy it is; how easy it is to talk about going to the Labour Inspectorate or going to justice when you know that you won't be fired. Anyway, listening to some speakers it seems that more than in the Kingdom of Spain they are in Disneyland. But, let's go to the subject we are dealing with: No law proposal of the United Group We Can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea. We will vote in favour of its non-law proposal on improving and guaranteeing the working conditions of housekeepers in the tourism sector. In fact, it is a proposal that goes along the same lines as other Republican Left proposals because it is a question of justice. It is not acceptable that the tourism sector is beating record figures of all kinds in recent years, including benefits, and that, on the other hand, it is one of the sectors where precariousness and fraud are most widespread. Today, in particular, we are looking at a very feminized group, which involves more than 100,000 women workers, and which is characterized by unacceptable working conditions; we are talking about housekeepers, although, as they have said before, it is also not the only group punished in this sector, although it is one of the most punished. [[Rumors]] The housekeepers have a particularly hard job...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u87	Your Honor, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u88	Thank you. The housekeepers have a particularly hard job which in recent years has worsened with the proliferation of comprehensive service companies - I will not extend much more because we have commented on the same in another bill, in this case the Socialist Party - or multi-service, a subcontracting which is legal - therefore cannot be denounced - but which hides a perverse end: to further devalue the wage and working conditions of the workers of the hotel industry in general and, in particular, of the housekeepers, in order to reap more benefits at their cost. Tourism workers, as I call them because of their seasonality, are suffering in a time of record figures in profits for companies a worsening year after year of the already hard working conditions. We are talking about exploitation, precariousness, seasonality, part-time contracts and repeated breaches of the sector agreement. We are talking about multi-service companies which, thanks to labour reforms, can impose much more unfavourable agreements than those in the hospitality sector, which they should naturally benefit from. Worse wage conditions and worse working conditions, with an increase in the number of rooms to work, a burden that, coupled with the hardness of that work, often makes many of the women affected have to stop working before retirement with what represents an economic loss for their future. Or they have to take the leave with what it means, that is, the danger today of losing their job, which is so difficult for so many people. Or that your health and quality of life are affected in a remarkable way, no longer just by low wages but by the state of your own health. That is why we will vote for this proposal, not for a law, in all its points exactly, which I am not going to repeat, because they have been well exposed by fellow Member Rita Bosaho. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Bosaho Gori, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u90	Yeah. We accept a compromise that we have made with other groups and will now bring it to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bosaho.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u92	We shall now proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. First of all, it is up to us to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group into urgent measures against poverty. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u93	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is returning to this rostrum to table a motion as a result of the question to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality of the previous week. We insist that we will not give up proposing once again the need to draw up a plan to combat poverty, a fair, comprehensive and implementation plan in all territories, because poor people are poor regardless of where they live. If we said a few days ago that there are 13.5 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, we have 13.5 million reasons to insist on the need to work for them. If we were to say that 3.2 million people are living in severe poverty, then we have 3.2 million reasons for improving their quality of life. Our obligation is to turn these figures around, to improve the data from the last survey of living conditions, but above all we have an obligation to show that economic improvement can reach all families. We propose in this motion a comprehensive plan including measures from different departments. We need the commitment of the Ministry of Employment because, of course, it is necessary to compensate for the drop in unemployment protection, which currently stands at 54 % of the unemployed. We also need a commitment to improve working conditions for all those working poor, and even more so for women working poor. We will, on a proposal from the Socialist Party, approve an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage of 8%, the highest recorded, but we cannot forget that many workers do not do so full-time, so they remain poor. The response to the situation of poverty and inequality presents significant gaps, which explains the limited reduction in the risks of poverty following social benefits. The last income guarantee network is incomplete, with unemployed people without coverage and with protection from the very unequal risk of poverty by territories and different population groups. For this reason, we propose to seek broad consensus and create a vital minimum income that can meet basic needs. The Act on Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons, an example of consensus in its adoption and an example of a system of cooperation between administrations are being implemented in these 10 years of life. It could be even better if I had the right funding; then let's learn. Why a new income system? We are looking for a new integrated system aimed at operating as the last social protection network, aimed at the most vulnerable population at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and supported by existing public systems with a dual objective. First, to provide families with no income at all to enable them to meet the most basic needs inherent in human dignity in line with the new dimension of human rights agreed at the United Nations. Secondly, investing in children, substantially improving the situation of children in low-income households and eliminating the most severe poverty. This new benefit will be directed - and I want to stress what I say - at households without income and in need, whatever their cause as a non-contributory social security benefit and therefore financed from the State's General Budgets. [[Applauds]] It must be a benefit coordinated with the unemployment benefit with equal amounts, so that, once unemployment protection is exhausted, it allows the passage between the two systems, always maintaining the coverage of the benefit. This measure is designed as the last protection network where the need persists and after the remaining benefits have been exhausted, so that economic, social, educational and labour inclusion can be facilitated. Of course, we propose that the 730,000 households that have no income can benefit, and we believe that there is no collision between the salary supplement proposals of other groups, but that is another proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, within the minimum living income, we must address the coverage of the dependent child benefit and increase its amount in a step-by-step way, depending on family income, only linked to household income and regardless of the working situation of the parents. This is intended as the first objective to combat child poverty and as the second to eliminate the most severe child poverty. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, in case anyone does not know the figure, that the child allowance is currently 291 euros per year or 24 euros per month, then it does not reach one euro per day. Only by addressing this rise will we break the figure of 2,300,000 poor children who would undoubtedly be poor adults for the most part. Let me stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the beneficiaries would be persons in households without income, minors in households below the poverty line in segments according to income and for those who still have the doubt of what we want to say, it will be necessary to prove the absence of income and it will be necessary to activate work and training for employment for people with possible employability criteria. We propose that the development of the plan and the minimum living income be implemented in a coordinated manner between the social services system and the public employment services for what is needed a pact with the autonomous communities. We need to recover the concerted plan for social services, of course, and it will also be necessary to reverse the competition for social services that was cancelled with local reform because basic social services networks and municipalities always have their door open. We believe that this is possible and we believe that we should do so as a social justice policy. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should include it in the next 2017 budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, we call for the support of all groups. I am grateful for the cooperation of all those who have tabled amendments and some of them we have accepted, but, ladies and gentlemen, citizens expect us to solve their problems and poverty is the main problem for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u94	Thank you very much. In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes to defend its amendment, and if necessary to establish a position, first of all, Mr Campuzano i Canades.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u95	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist Group is presenting this motion on urgent measures against poverty. My group must start by pointing out that in the case of Spain this increase in poverty is clearly linked to the massive unemployment we have experienced over the years and to the long-term unemployment, and it is clear that the system of protection for unemployment has not been able to withstand the impact of this long crisis. Moreover, the crisis has made it very clear that our welfare state model was not sufficiently oriented to protect families with children. This absence of strong protection for families with children has to do with the issue that the socialist spokesman has mentioned, which is the ridiculous child benefit in charge of our system: long-term unemployment, a system that is not able to resist, child poverty because the welfare state is not family-oriented... In addition, a budgetary policy of the Government in the distribution of the reduction in the number of public deficits that has discharged the need to reduce their budgets into municipalities and autonomous communities, while at the same time passing on to them the responsibility to address poverty. That has led us to that situation of increasing poverty, and it is clear that, in the face of that situation, we need various types of policies. One of them, in fact, responds to long-term unemployment. Of course, it will need to be linked to employment policies, to job creation, but also to the need to take up the proposal that the Workers' Committees and UGT are going to transfer to us in the coming months a new benefit that will cover long-term unemployment. The fight against poverty will also have to do with more jobs and better jobs. In this my group insists - it is a pity that Mrs Martín did not want to accept our amendment - on the need to increase the inter-branch minimum wage to reach that target of 60%. The best way to combat poverty is through employment and quality employment. Furthermore, I am sure that the Socialist Parliamentary Group could share with us that today part of the welfare state's policies is better to focus on the idea of predisposition than on distribution. Predistribution means that we are able before taxes to correct those inequalities that then, through taxes, public services and social benefits, we end up correcting. Hence also the importance of the interprofessional minimum wage. We are very convinced that the fight against poverty also requires that this child benefit be sufficient and universal. There, Mrs Martín, I have to regret that in the Bureau of Congress we have allowed the proposal for a law that the members of the Catalan Democratic Party have proposed to increase the child benefit - in the proposal that we have advocated reformulating this benefit, we are talking about a child-rearing benefit - to which we have placed a new threshold of access precisely to enable more families to benefit from this benefit, placing the target of the amount in a reasonable amount, which is the 100 euros per child in each family, that initiative, I repeat, that the People's Party, which the Government has vetoed, we regret that it has obtained the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in order to prevent it from being processed. My group is going to reformulate that initiative and logically in that reformulation we hope to find the support of the Socialist Group, because addressing the problem of child poverty is not an operation in less political and budgetary terms. The Government argued in its veto that this proposal had a cost of some EUR 6 billion. It is true that this is a relevant figure, but the problem of child poverty requires a serious economic effort. We cannot settle for a small adjustment in the child allowance, but we need a child-rearing allowance that brings us closer to the countries in our European environment and that involves a significant economic effort. I hope that the Socialist Group will accompany us, as my group will do with this motion today, in defending this solid, consistent, robust and universal child-rearing benefit. [[Rumors]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Republican Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, good evening. I am sure that we are all moved by poverty; hence this well-intentioned motion, to which we have contributed with some amendments and which we will vote in favour. I am sure, however, that we do not all share the same definition of poverty and even less of exclusion that it entails. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u98	One second, Mr. Olòriz. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic rumour in the House is unacceptable. People who speak have to make a higher effort because they are not heard. Many of your ladies and gentlemen are very attentive to the speaker's speech, and I do not think he gives them any grace, although some seem to be. Please, we are here to listen to the speaker, who is speaking. Go ahead, Mr. Olòriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u99	I hope that by osmosis you will end up understanding his magnificent words. Poverty and exclusion are the natural result of the current economic system. Poverty understood as the lack of economic resources to meet basic needs has grown greatly as a result of the crisis and social cuts; exclusion understood as the lack of access to human development mechanisms, decent work and housing, lifelong education, health, emotional ties, community networks, political participation, is also growing in many of its dimensions, but neither poverty nor exclusion appears with the crisis. The two came and still come from the hand of a model of unequal and unsustainable growth and of social relations of hierarchy, privilege and domination, of the capitalism of friends that is said, of relations in which inequality is norm and underlying sexism and bureaucracy is allied with unsustainable development. Patriarchy, exploitation and violence are parts of the same scene, of the same story, creators all of them of loneliness, stigmas and marginalizations. We have suffered in recent years especially, but poverty comes from afar. We must not only overcome the conservative policy of regulation and charity so far, we must also overcome the classic limits of the policy that was carried out in the times before the People's Party, and with all due respect we think that this motion will be insufficient because it will have to be implemented by the People's Party and not by the work. I am sure that you will excuse yourself in the spending ceiling that many of you approved - not us - and in other contingencies of those that Minister Montoro knows very well. Three limits to addressing poverty in its total complexity. On the one hand, social policies are not enough. It is necessary to question, in the light of the facts and not only in a declaratory way - we are very accustomed - the core of the predominant economic and financial relations with all the boldness that is needed. On the other hand, traditional welfare, health, education and pension policies are not enough. At the heart of the public strategy is the basic income of citizenship and proximity policies. Finally, public policies are not enough. Values, attitudes and practices of solidarity in community and associative key must be activated by entities, networks and movements of all kinds. Poverty and exclusion are the sad face of this system which the present Government does not intend to change and which the motion, however good it may have, cannot change. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, they were in time to make another government, but they did not leave them or they did not want to. Do not convert the majority that we repeatedly have in this House into government. Odysseus sailed between Scilla and Caribdis and arrived at port. I'm afraid we need a new Ulysses, because the sailing cards we've inherited don't take us anywhere or, rather, keep us where we are. How long? In Catalonia, we are clear: a constituent process and a Catalan republic. Fraternity and republic. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u100	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u101	Thank you very much, President. Dear Kitty: How wonderful it would be that no one needed to wait a moment before starting to improve the world! These words were written by a 13-year-old girl, Annelies Marie Frank, known to all as Anne Frank. He wrote them in his famous diary hidden in the back of an Amsterdam building during the German occupation of World War II. We all know very well what it meant for her that the rest of the world would wait for that moment to which she referred in her diary. She was finally captured and died in a concentration camp when she was barely sixteen years old. The consequences of waiting for an instant are especially cruel to children. A year, two years or a legislature is a long time in a child's life. Those two years can be decisive for their physical and emotional development. We have heard more than once from members of the Government that we must wait, that there is no money or that we will endure until the situation improves. I tell you that there are decisions and investments that cannot be postponed, ladies and gentlemen, and this is one of them. You may not be clear what your priorities are, but we will remind you of what our priorities are. It's very easy because - you know it well - it's all in a document you signed with us. They are our priorities and, in addition, they are our demands for investiture. You were forced to comply; at the end of the document is the signature of your spokesman, Don Rafael Hernando, and the commitment on behalf of your group. We also refer to his words: 'The PP does not sign agreements for fifteen minutes' he said, so remember very well that this pact is in force. Remember especially now that you are preparing the budgets. In view of the amendment they have tabled, it does not seem to be entirely clear and, as I am here, I will use it to refresh your memory a little bit. Measures to combat poverty and, in particular, that affecting children. Requirement 63: Develop a new anti-poverty children's plan with increased funding under a comprehensive family support law - requirement 66 -, inter alia, to ensure that the most vulnerable families are the priority target of the Government's active employment policies; and create specific certification for single-parent families to ensure a minimum of protection. Requirement 69: A pact for children also with an increase in investment, ensuring minimums, as was already done at the time in the Toledo Pact. In addition to all this, there is our guaranteed wage supplement for families with lower wages; remember that we signed 1.3 billion by 2017. Since the Socialist Group is proposing such initiatives, we would like it to go down to the sand and negotiate it with the People's Group in the context of the budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, we must implement all these measures as soon as possible, we owe it to that middle class impoverished by the crisis, and in particular to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, who, through your policies, have contributed to increasing inequality in our country. In a short time, about 3 million people have moved from the middle class to poverty. These people had their aspirations, their life plans and suddenly everything has been frustrated for them. How can we not help them now, after allowing them to fall? Moreover, they have not fallen alone, they have fallen with their children as well. We already have an almost lost generation that is not the Hemingway generation, and we have it here, in Spain. They are all those over-prepared young people who do not find work, many of whom have had to leave our borders to survive. In addition to having the obligation to recover all that youthful talent that we have let go or have let go, we have the obligation not to create another lost generation with those who are still children. Data indicate that one in three children lives at risk of poverty or social exclusion. I don't know what you'll think of this figure, but at least it's one of those things we can't wait for for a moment. Curiously the other day here in the Chamber I heard Mr Catalá say that Spain is at the forefront in terms of child protection. I disagree considerably, because if we were at the forefront we would certainly not have these figures. You often boast in addition to the Child Protection Act. I am not going to say that it is a bad law, the problem is that for many of its points to be implemented it needs regulatory development; we are still waiting for that regulation, ladies and gentlemen, and we have demanded it. In addition, is there anything to do with a law that does not have a budget? I read you the 20th additional provision: the measures included here will not be able to increase public spending. Law without regulation and without investment; it must be that this is what you understand it means to be at the forefront. Let's make a real diagnosis. If we have 3 million children at risk, you must do more than breast-feed. We are not a model country in child protection, but we could become one of its priorities. Children are the most important resource we have to improve our society, to improve the world; we care for them as they deserve. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u102	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Terron Berbel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one in five Spaniards lives on the poverty line. That means that at least one of our neighbors on the stairs when he's going to buy the supermarket, if he can go, he has to count the coins. Do you know what that is, gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group? Maybe not. In Spain, too, it does not mean getting out of poverty, and it is thanks to the employment policies of the People's Party that 1% of the population earns up to three times as much as the remaining 99%. In Spain there are 2 million workers living with 655 euros per month. Do you know what that is? Perhaps in the People's Party there are people who try, for example by buying at Primark, but I don't know if it's enough try. Around 400,000 persons entitled to dependency benefit or assistance are on the waiting list. They are people who need support for the most basic tasks of life. Do you know how long it would take us to keep up with the pace we've been at? Sixteen years. If this were little, there were 126,000 dead people waiting for help to the dependency they had recognized. Do you, gentlemen of the People's Group, know what it's like to die waiting? In this situation what have you done? I'll tell you in case you don't remember. The agreed plan with which the Government finances social services was cut by €36 million in 2012, a cut that remains in effect. No such cut in social services has been known since they were created in the 1980s; 12,265 social service professionals were dismissed. And in case it were little, in a whole boast of an attack on individual rights, you sentenced municipal social services to death with your Law on Sustainability and Rationalization of the Local Administration. Madam Minister - she's not here. For wherever it is - social services are not charity. We are not talking about a question of charity, we are talking about a question of rights. Social services are the guarantee that anyone living in this country will have a decent life. They're the fourth pillar of welfare. To cut back on social services is to undermine democracy and equality. The Minister said the other day that the solution to inequality is employment. Indeed, it is one of them, but certainly not the job you offer. With that salary and these working conditions the maximum luxury that a worker in this country can afford is to go to McDonald's once a month, and this is not an example she is setting because she is; they are people, they are lives, and you can see it yourself. More stuff. What happened to the two million dependents in Spain? What did you do with those two million people who need help with the most basic tasks of daily life? You will pass Royal Decree 20/2012, with which you covertly repealed the Unit Law: 3 billion euros less for our dependent relatives. And in case it seemed to you that the 420 euros, at best, that a family carer pays - a family carer never rests, it is twenty-four hours of work - you took the social security contribution: 170,000 people left without social security contribution. 94% were women. The problems are complex, but the solutions are not so much, they are simple; it is a matter of political will. We do not need a social inclusion plan like the one you approved in 2013, which only makes up, which only does grouping together existing measures and, at best, investing a few more euros in social investment. That's not good for us. Nor is it worth the ugly custom of you to transfer functions that you are from the public administration to the private sector. And neither do we need you to empty the municipal social services, which were the main weapon against inequality in this country for twenty-five years. The bet of Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea is very clear, is to overcome assistanceism, and for that it is necessary an approach of active inclusion. This has three basic pillars: universal, public and quality social services, also access to quality employment and, of course, a minimum income system. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we are not talking about alms, that we are not talking about charity, that we are talking about rights, and that is why we are here to ensure that rights are respected. Many of you, gentlemen of the People's Group, are filled with your mouths defending life. For life, they're called. I'm going to tell you that it's almost better that you are sincere and called for existence, because between living and existing there's a difference, dignity. If you cut into social services, dependency, working conditions, let me tell you that you do not defend life. To defend life, it is necessary to ensure that people, at their age, live with dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u104	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Navarro Lacoba.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum on behalf of my group to say that we share - much more than you can imagine, I believe we are in the same square as the game board - the concern about inequality, poverty and social exclusion. But we cannot share either the diagnosis or the treatment. The People's Group has tabled an amendment to its amendment, because our amendment is much more realistic. Coordination must be encouraged with the autonomous communities, with the rest of the territorial administrations, in order to pool the entire aid system and to seek greater efficiency that will always benefit all citizens. This very morning, the Minister for Health and Social Affairs announced it in the Commission, and I also say this to the Member of the People's Party who has spoken about this. It would be very useful to read the Minister's statement this morning in the Commission, because it would clarify a great deal of doubt. I am also making progress here in plenary on the will of the Minister, who is going to put this People's Party Government, to draw up a plan to combat poverty from a preventive perspective. The People's Party has been focusing all its efforts since 2011 on those most punished by the economic and social crisis. When we arrived at the Government in 2011, the circumstances were what they were and I also want to remember them here today. We had the highest unemployment in the European Union: 3 and a half million unemployed; jobs were being destroyed at a rate of 1,500 jobs per day; we had lost 10% of our wealth; and there was an absolute impossibility of financing public administrations. They also talked about women: seven out of ten women who went to unemployment in Europe were Spanish. In addition, the OECD noted that between 2007 and 2011, years of the Socialist Party government, poverty rose in Spain more than in the European Union. Of course, he shared the diagnosis also of another of the comrades who has risen to the rostrum, we all know that the main cause of poverty is unemployment. To put an end to this, the People's Party made a commitment. But, above all, the People's Party had to place the responsibility that the Spaniards asked of us, who had overwhelmed us with an absolute majority in the ballot box, so that we could undertake the necessary reforms that required a country that was in ruins and about to be intervened, as the Socialist Party had left us. Firstly, we have made employment policies, the main one to end inequality, and this is already giving the results that you know very well, that we are growing almost two million jobs in the last three years; that today we create jobs at a rate of one thousand and five hundred per day; and that half of the employment generated in Europe is provided by Spain. Let us not fail in our efforts, because we know that we can achieve the target of 20 million occupied by 2020, and this is the most effective anti-poverty medicine. Let us do it, because we're proving that we know and that we can do it. [[Applauds]] Secondly, nothing more came of the Government's anti-poverty plan, which you had dropped in 2010, when the economic and social crisis no longer left any Spanish indifferent. It was endowed with more than 136,000 million euros. But where were you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, to support this system and to support the more than 14 million Spaniards who receive a benefit at the end of the month? They were concerned to dissolve the Chambers and advance the elections, because they had an absolute inability to face the overall budget for 2012. Since then, I believe that the acronyms of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party must be those of the party that forgot the Spanish. Now, they come to argue for a vital minimum income, a measure similar to that proposed by another parliamentary group in the House which, precisely, have a government agreement on my land, in Castile-La Mancha and which was one of the currency of exchange, the creation of a minimum income. You should squeeze each other into other territories where you can and don't, and come to this House to amend this government. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious, the issue demands it. The People's Party cannot be an accomplice to trap solutions that are tomorrow's frustration and that disincentive people's initiative. We already have experiences of this kind and you have also cited them, such as the Unit Law, which we already know how it was born: a lot of wrap and little candy inside. Solutions must be responsible, sustainable and revulsive. For this, the People's Party has the Preparation Plan, but also our support for the 8% increase in the inter-professional minimum wage. But if you really care about this subject, let's get to work together. They have the opportunity to support the general budgets for 2017. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u106	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen, and take your seats, please. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the mid-eighties of the last century the crisis in the Basque industry was accompanied by a resurgence of unemployment and poverty. Euskadi rose from virtually zero unemployment in 1973 to an unemployment rate of almost 22% in 1984, exceeding 20% of the rest of the state. The autonomous community was also the only one to see its per capita income diminished with a serious deterioration that led, for example, to Bizkaia, being the second per capita income of the State, becoming the number 21 in 1985. In this situation, more than twenty-five years ago, and from a situation of economic crisis with the worst indicators we have known - worse than the current ones - it was decided to allocate funds to finance a plan whose most important consequence is that today Euskadi could hardly be recognized or reflected in that image of the past. There were many, no doubt, but among the various factors of the economic reality that today is Euskadi, there was a fundamental one in the opinion of many experts who was in the decision of the Basque Government in time of the Lehendakari Ardanza to launch a comprehensive plan to combat poverty in Euskadi, origin of the approval in 1989 of the first income guarantee programme in an autonomous community. The data from this experience have shown that these protection systems allow people to maintain a decent quality of life, that they are also allowed to maintain high levels of employability and avoid the chronization of more serious situations and consequences. And while it is not their object, they also benefit the economic situation in general. Without the aid to which this motion is also addressed, those who were in a greater vulnerable situation would hardly have faced their basic needs and their access to employability would have been so easy and would have had other consequences other than those that existed in Euskadi in the social, family and personal environment of all those who have found themselves in a situation of unprotectiveness. That is why we also believe that it is good that in other places, in Spain, in the rest of the state, they have a system of their own, whether or not it is similar to that of which Euskadi was endowed. The motion seeks to promote a proposal to this effect which is linked to the creation, first, of a minimum living income which is divided into two parts: one, which involves the introduction of a new non-contributory social security benefit for households without income, and the other, which entails improvements in the amounts of child benefits. It also envisages another proposal for a reform of the local administration so that they can maintain management competence in the field of social services, which, incidentally, does not happen in the Basque Country, since these powers are already vested in them by virtue of the internal division of powers. From the Basque perspective, therefore, none of the proposals are in themselves negative; moreover, we consider them possibly positive for the State and even for Euskadi, since - contrary to what one might think - it would even contribute to reducing the expenditure of GIR, of income guarantee income, which is currently in force in Euskadi. But I did want to tell you, despite this comparative and positive description, that just as the motion addresses poverty and inequality from a fundamental perspective linked to exclusion, the autonomous community, as a competent administration, as an administration that has had the opportunity to make its own political decisions, launched different policies at the time: some linked to exclusion aid; others to policies that sought to promote employment with what we now consider to be active employment policies. It was one's own policy; plural but one's own. In this regard, for example, the European Commission drew the attention of those responsible for employment of the Spanish Government to remind them that this model of employment was the model to follow, the system that was launched in Basque country, where social protection policies and employment policies are combined. We are very much afraid that here, in the light of other previous experiences, it is not only intended to promote a plan but also to condition our own policies, our decision-making capacity in this area, even though it has been successful. In the future, of course, there will be no harm in supporting this initiative. To this end, it would be necessary to ensure that, contrary to a practice we have already known, the introduction of the new benefit does not limit the complementary action of the Autonomous Communities in the area of minimum incomes, nor that it is compatible with their own employment policies, which are ensuring that the autonomous minimum income can, for example, continue to maintain its regulation and specificity, complementing State benefits. We believe that the momentum of this experience, which has taught us that it is vital to have that tool to design our future, is positive, we believe that the momentum of this type of initiative in the field of combating poverty is positive and that we will not oppose it, but we cannot support it without any red tape unless we are assured that actions such as those proposed do not pose a certain threat to the possibility that Euskadi can exercise and maintain his own policies in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u108	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Martín González whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u109	We have accepted amendments from several groups and have made a compromise text which is already in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u110	Thank you very much. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GOVERNMENT POLICY TO IMPLEMENT THE MEASURES RECENTLY APPROVED BY THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION TO ENCOURAGE THE GLOBAL ENERGY TRANSITION TO CLEAN ENERGY. [[File number 173/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u111	It is now appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the government's policy to implement the measures recently adopted by the European Commission to lead the global energy transition to clean energy. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u112	President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we are in a continuous déjà vu because we are only talking about energy transition, climate change, self-consumption. But it is necessary to talk about it every day because otherwise they will not listen to us and they will continue to omit the speed at which the energy world advances. Europe is clear, it has set its goals and we know them well enough: 2020, 2030, 2050, and it has even marked a road map, including the European Commissioner for the People's Party, Mr Arias Cañete, has supported that road map and has supported various measures in the areas of energy efficiency, climate change and transition. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that when we come home, when we sit here, when we begin to debate, we see that Spain has not done its duty, that it has ignored it and that it continues to turn its back on Europe. That is why we are betting on that state pact for energy. Yes, some may also say that there is much talk about the state energy pact, but excuse me if we think that energy is a matter of state strategy, it is not a political issue, and it is time for us to start thinking big and realize that it is necessary to reach that state pact. It is necessary to give certainty to the sector, it is necessary to give clarity, a clear regulation and, of course, what is necessary is to give legal certainty. Improvisation on energy is over. Please - and I ask the members of the government - it is over, it is time for us to think in the long term. These days we have also talked about this energy transition plan, including at the Minister's appearance, and he commented on the government's willingness to make that energy transition plan. Unfortunately, today, there is no such energy transition plan or at least we have not seen it. We have asked, we have asked, but it does not exist. It is necessary to bet on a renewable horizon, with objectives, and the wolf does not come to start doing the duties and planning what the development of the energy model will be. We have to do it today. It is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that we reduce CO2 emissions; Spain continues to increase the level of emissions in terms of energy generation. Europe is falling by 2%, Spain is growing by 3.4% in the past year. I don't think we're doing things the way we should. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u113	One second, Mrs. Rodriguez. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u114	Thank you, President. It is necessary to bet on that production, that decentralized energy generation. It is also necessary to give a folder to all the sources of generation that come from fossil fuels and above all - and in this I suppose the Government will agree with us - it is necessary to continue to talk about energy efficiency, not only in the domestic sector, but also - aid is needed for the most vulnerable sectors, also in the public administration, in public buildings. We need to give examples, not just to preach. So when we talk about efficiency, we talk about self-consumption, and here we come to the great mantra that we've been debating for a long time and that I think we'll have to keep debating. The Royal Decree 900/2015, which the previous Government supported, not only places barriers and obstacles to self-consumption, but also calls the self-consumers the predators of the system and, therefore, the need to regulate against self-consumption. It is curious, because when you listen to the minister talk about those elites who can benefit from self-consumption, sometimes I get the feeling that they are more socialist than the Socialist Party, because they only talk about elites when really what is being talked about is the right to self-produce and self-consumption energy. It is necessary to reform that real decree, it is necessary to remove these barriers, it is necessary to understand, in order not to be confused, that the self-consumers pay the fixed costs of the system; they pay them, they are not eluding them: they pay renewables, they pay extrapenisulars and the whole compendium of things that are in that tailor's drawer, which is nothing but our bill for light. We need to talk about the surpluses and the energy deficits that they produce. Of course they have to go to market price. They do not have to have some benefits as to how the purchase price or the selling price is, but they have to be regulated because what can't be defended in any way, ladies and gentlemen, is that an energy that has had a direct self-consumption that doesn't even touch the net, pays toll. Also in this royal decree - I have to comment on this - the facilities that operate under self-consumption linked to the water cycle are penalized. Since there is much talk of extrapenisulars, let me also refer to my land. It makes no sense to penalise a type of facility such as the desalinators, which were built when the legislation allowed it, and that today what has been done, with a coup d'état, is to try to apply retroactivity and allow not to operate facilities that are not only contributing to the reduction of the energy cost in the Canary Islands - which for those who do not know it is four times that of the Peninsula - but will also help us to move towards a more sustainable model. Spain, in short, cannot continue to turn its back on Europe, the Spanish Government cannot continue to contradict what its own European Commissioners say when they leave our borders, because sometimes it seems that something is happening to them and they change their speech. No, we must be consistent with what is said outside and above all with what is done at home. We need that energy pact that the Government has signed; we need that energy transition plan that the Government has also signed in that agreement; we need an energy model that bets on renewables, which has also signed in that agreement the Government that is currently in existence; we need the commitment to reduce CO2 emissions, which has also been signed by the Government, and of course what is needed and which has also been signed by the Government that we have today is that the self-consumer should at last be no longer regarded as a producer, because it is not, and that work should begin for all. A law regulating self-consumption is necessary and, ultimately, it is necessary for the Government to be consistent with what it signs and above all with what it says outside our borders. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u115	Thank you very much. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups and, if necessary, to establish a position, the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is setting up an initiative that focuses on energy, a key issue for the present and the future of Spain. Mrs Rodríguez herself has already distinguished herself by bringing such issues to the Commission and in the Forum we like to take part in them because, if energy is important for the whole of Spain, it is even more valuable for some communities like Asturias, in our case because of its influence on the competitiveness of the basic industry - steel, aluminium, zinc, etc. - on which hundreds of thousands of stable and qualified jobs depend in Spain; also because coal is our only autochthonous fossil fuel and, therefore, it is a question of national energy sovereignty its use for electricity generation. Ladies and gentlemen, the electricity bill that we Spaniards pay depends on the supply of external sources whose bills we have to pay with high prices that set us third countries. He has therefore tabled an amendment to this motion stressing the need to promote a balanced generation mix in which the considerations of security, national sovereignty and social costs of all technologies can be taken into account, reviewing the diversification of sources and sites to meet Spain's electricity consumption needs. At a second point, I demand the momentum to develop a strategic energy plan 2017-2030 that envisages increasing to the limit our own energy sources - water, sun, wind and coal that, as I pointed out earlier, is our only autochthonous fossil fuel -. Finally, I would like to focus on the third paragraph of the amendment on the need to protect as much national sovereignty as possible in a matter as sensitive to energy and to harmonise our energy costs with those of the European Union in order to favour domestic consumers, improve the competitiveness of industries and businesses and create jobs. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u117	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last night, a member of the People's Party told me that Royal Decree 900/2015 did not prevent electric self-consumption. This year we have less than fifty electrical energy self-consumption facilities, a record; less than fifty, they do not reach one per province, in a country with so many hours of sunshine a year. In 2015, the United Kingdom installed 3,500 megawatts; Germany, 1,450 and Spain, 49. It is known that the UK and Germany have African climates and that is why they install solar plates. [[Laughter]] Meanwhile, here we burn 45 billion by importing fossil energy when we have a free fuel, the sun and the wind, and for one reason only, or perhaps two: first, to maintain the privileges of electric oligopoly and, secondly, to prevent the democratization of energy. We announce our vote in favour. We have amended the proposal by trying to improve it, by being a little more ambitious, because we believe that we need to make the different administrations responsible for greater consensus. We have also amended - and this has been accepted by us - because we believe that public administrations should be the first to set an example, and that is why we propose an energy audit plan for public buildings to take measures to reduce spending and also create incentives for SMEs, so that they also carry out their own audits. Finally, we believe that a comprehensive reform of the electricity sector could be promoted and, in that regard, we believe that a comprehensive audit of the tariff deficit should be carried out. I believe that this is the mother of all battles and, ultimately, one thing that must be done sooner or later. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u119	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if a minimum common denominator had the previous legislature - for some the failed legislature - it was the setting of a common position - except the sum of the People's Party in that common position - in favour of revising the existing legal framework on self-consumption. To be clear: citizens must not pay for self-production of energy. To put it simply: the sun tax must be cancelled, a policy favourable to self-consumption must be promoted and not penalised. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in an energy transition, whether with a plan or without a plan, Mrs Rodríguez, waiting for the government to finally present that plan. This reality must be assumed. Renewable energy must be boosted, decentralized energy production must be boosted, public policies must be promoted, promoted and made in favour of self-consumption, and active policies must be made in favour of energy efficiency and energy saving, including in construction. This means reducing the consumption of fossil fuels and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These approaches, ladies and gentlemen, should also be the lowest common denominator approaches by a House which voted unanimously and unanimously for the Paris Convention a few weeks ago. Those in favour of the Paris Convention should also be in favour of this new energy model, this beginning of the energy transition. The Democratic Party has tabled an amendment not to penalise self-consumption, to cancel the sun tax, which has been incorporated in a compromise amendment signed by different groups which I hope can be voted on, as it expresses the will of the vast majority of this House. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u121	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u122	Thank you, President. Good night. With this motion, Citizens show little or no confidence that the Government will comply with their commitment to invest because otherwise, instead of a motion, you would be negotiating and already presenting the royal decree amending Royal Decree 900/2015. And they're right not to trust. Minister Nadal and the government are not friends of self-consumption, it made it very clear to us in their appearance in the Commission and also in the inquiry; it only put problems to self-consumption, practically did not mention any of its advantages. The agreement of the People's Party with Citizens says: The difficulties that could exist to efficient electrical self-consumption will be eliminated. The minister has already said that first we should see if there were difficulties and as for the minister it seems that his royal decree has no difficulties, he does not want to introduce fundamental changes in the regulation of self-consumption. They take their hair; they want to take their hair and they want to take it from us too. The Government is opposed to self-consumption, to people producing and consuming their own energy and is also a friend of nuclear power because it wants to extend the lives of nuclear power from 40 to 60 years. The so-called sun tax is the most restrictive regulation in the world according to the International Energy Agency. Their argument is that consumers - the minister's argument - end up paying what self-consumption saves. The self-consumer contributes and must contribute to the system like other consumers, but fairly. The self-consumer already pays the fixed term of the invoice, which is 70%, to have access to the network; the remaining 30% would only stop paying the share of the energy it consumes. What's the point of paying for unspent energy? The payments of the system are paid for consuming energy, not saving it. Who saves energy with efficiency measures will also be made to pay for unconsumed energy? This approach makes no sense at all. And it is a cynical approach because it presents self-consumption as an elitist thing, for the rich, when they actually prevent the regulation of collective self-consumption for example in urban areas. The minister is shocked by the alleged subsidies of consumers to self-consumers in a country where the electric oligopoly has benefited from a constant illegitimate transfer of income from citizenship to companies: costs of transition to competition, 3.6 billion euros; the so-called benefits fallen from the sky by bad regulation, 2 billion euros; mechanisms of excessive capacity, 900 million euros in 2014. Is the problem really self-consumption? No, the problem is a bad regulation that has favored oligopoly. Self-consumption saves on transportation, reduces losses, is more efficient, helps fight climate change, boosts the economy and creates jobs. And why are they against it? They are against it because it means a change in the business model of large companies, because it means moving from a centralized model with large distribution networks to urban centres to a much more democratic decentralized model that empowers citizens. There is no real energy transition if self-consumption is not developed. We are not just discussing technologies because almost everyone - perhaps those of the People's Party still believe in nuclear power - is clear that the present and the future are renewable energies. The debate is how to do this and in the hands of who and how the new model will be: with citizen participation or with citizens as passive consumers; with a centralized model or with a more decentralized and democratic model. There is no energy revolution without a democratic revolution, without the democratization of the generation and consumption of energy. Energy sovereignty is not only to stop relying on the fossil fuels we import, but also to stop relying on the oligopoly of large companies. The meaning of our amendment is essentially one. In February 2006, all parliamentary groups - except the People's Party - and twenty-six social organizations reached an agreement to amend the Electricity Act and repeal the sun tax. Our amendment wants that to be reflected, and so it will be, in the compromise that we have finally adopted. This is our frame of reference. Unilaterally Citizens presented this law in the Congress of Deputies; now it would make no sense for that agreement to have no translation in the transaction to which we have arrived. Therefore, the fundamental objective we share in this parliamentary term is to end the sun tax once and for all in order to actually favour renewable energies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has a problem and an urgent need. We have committed ourselves to having our energy transition model by the end of 2017, but to achieve this, we need agreed energy planning, the result of a great social, economic and political consensus. It takes a great deal of energy. It is healthy, I would say, that the government, as the minister told us last week, has not yet closed the scenarios to 2030 and 2050 because, I insist, it must be the result of a process of dialogue with all political forces and with the greatest possible social consensus. That is why the Socialists have tabled an amendment to this motion to ask, as I did at the Minister's meeting, that the Ministry forward the energy transition plan to the Congress of Deputies as soon as possible and, from there, to create a paper to analyse and discuss the energy transition model for Spain, the results of which can be reflected in the law on climate change and energy transition that this Parliament adopted at last week's session through a PNL. As I said, the European Commission urges all countries to present their energy transition plan. Most of the countries in our environment have been doing so for more than a while now, but we, like the bad students, are leaving everything for the last moment; yet, I think that if we apply ourselves we can have the right results to achieve the emission reduction targets to which we have committed ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, planning the energy transition means talking about many things, making many things concrete, including promoting all the measures and funding needed to meet energy efficiency objectives. It means giving a definitive boost to renewables, providing them with legal certainty and a horizon for making the necessary investments. It also means, although the government likes to talk about technological neutrality, making very important decisions about the energy mix. In particular, we want to emphasise, and that is why we have incorporated it into an amendment, that the horizon for the closure of nuclear power plants must be defined. The majority of this House is already clear that they should not exceed 40 years, but the Government is not only not making a decision on this, but is trying to reopen a closed power plant five years ago, the Garoña nuclear power plant, with obsolete technology, which has certainly not been necessary to maintain security of supply. The Government must also quantify the cost of managing nuclear waste and make once and for all the decision on how it will be managed. By the way, I would like to remind the Government and the Minister that all parliamentary groups have sent a letter to discuss the nuclear and Garoña issue and have not yet responded to our request. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of self-consumption in this energy transition is fundamental. We support the Citizens' motion on all the issues raised, because most of the groups in this House have also signed an agreement that the sun tax and all the administrative obstacles that make self-consumption in Spain impossible should be eliminated as a matter of urgency. The European Commission, in its recent communication to the Member States, Clean Energy for All Europeans, says that this situation of resistance to change in Spain needs to be unlocked. The Commission has said this: self-production is a consumer's right. There are autonomous governments, like mine, the government of Extremadura, which convinced that it is the future has drawn a decree of aid to promote self-production, so that it will make families profitable. I have to tell you, above all to the government and the minister - as I told the resigned Soria - that in the countryside, in addition to recreational farms, there is a rural world, there are isolated houses, there are small businesses, there are livestock farms, there are also infra-habitats. There's all that, besides the playgrounds. The Government continues to falsely argue that self-production and self-consumption would mean a lack of solidarity and a transfer of income between one consumer and another. We insist that the argument is completely fallacious, because the self-consumer contributes to the maintenance of the system as any other consumer. Why? Because it pays the fixed term of the invoice completely; that is, all the costs of ultra-penisular territories, the premiums for renewables, etc. This fixed term accounts for between 70 and 75 % of the invoice. Therefore, they do contribute; it is a fallacious argument. The self-consumer is also in solidarity with the planet.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u125	Your Honor, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u126	I'm done. Today, we have known that 2016 has been the warmest year in history, there are no more excuses. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u127	Before I give the last word on this point, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you the following. There's still an hour left for plenary. I remind you of the obligation we all have to listen to the speaker. It will be the last time I repeat these words tonight. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you that those who do not want to be silent and want to have talks like the ones I am seeing, that they do not last a minute or two, but that I am seeing conversations that are lasting several hours throughout the afternoon, I ask you, I say, to leave the Chamber. And I will not repeat it one more time, but I will call to order whoever is speaking in their seats. Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr García Aegean has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you and I share many points of view - I am speaking to the rapporteur for Citizens - in fact, we have signed a very broad pact in which there is a clear commitment not only to renewable energies, but also to the impulse of self-consumption. This afternoon my group tabled an amendment to the full text of the pact reached by the People's and Citizens' Party - here is our amendment and the pact -. Full text of points 18, promoting a state energy pact; 19, adopting a law on climate change and energy transition; and 20, advancing the reform of the electricity sector to achieve competitive prices, and mention is also made of elimination and progress in the development of self-consumption. Today we had the opportunity to continue on this path, to move this contract that was between two parties to a text supported by the majority of the House, but it has been decided not to support this text and indeed an alternative one. I recognise that I was thrilled to hear the previous Member of the Citizens' Group ask the Members of the People's Group to respect the literality of the pact because I already know that I have an ally in Citizens for the next time we have to discuss issues like this. I know who I have to ask for help to ensure that what has been agreed between the Citizens' Group and the People's Parliamentary Group is respected. Especially striking has been the removal of the word 'efficient' that accompanies electric self-consumption, because I do not understand why they are in favour of electric self-consumption, but not in favour of efficient electric self-consumption. What do they have against efficiency? Why was our agreement allowed to introduce the word 'efficient' and now, when it comes to bringing it into the Chamber, it falls? I do not know whether they are aware - and I am addressing all political groups - of the new political stage that has opened up. There is a new political stage in which it is no longer worth making demagogic proposals in the hope that a responsible majority within this Parliament will stop them. It is no longer worth making unattainable proposals because the flaps of these proposals within this Parliament often cause much suffering, hurricanes of suffering out there. In the past, during Zapatero's legislature, two types of preference were sold. On the one hand, the banking preferences, which have caused much suffering to people and which this government during the last legislature had to solve. And, on the other hand, the electrical preferents, who were the ones that emanated from an unsustainable system, who encouraged good faith investors to put money in the electricity system and who, in the end, when the system was unsustainable, had to see their profitability and their investment reduced. Who suffers when the banking system falls apart? The big companies? The banks? No, no, The depositors suffer, as we have seen in Greece when the populist policies of Podemos are applied. Who suffers when the electrical system is unsustainable? The electricians and the shareholders? Yeah, but who suffers the most? Consumers. In the end, good faith investors, who lose their profitability, and consumers, who see the bill go up 70%, as in the last year. In our environment there are several countries that have generated bubbles and ended up changing their regulation, making consumers pay a very high cost. If we really want to improve the lives of electric consumers, do not generate a new bubble. I was thrilled to see how Mr Baldoví remembered our conversation last night on the issue of self-consumption, and I remind all his ladies, especially Mrs Lucio, that isolated houses - she said that in the countryside there are not only farms, but also isolated houses - do not pay any kind of toll if they want to consume their own energy. 95% of homes in this country do not pay any tolls. No more demagogy. What cannot be is that if a large area, if a large company wants to place photovoltaic plates for self-consumption, the cost that is stopped paying from the electrical system will have to be paid by our grandparents and our pensioners as a result of poor energy planning, which is what has happened in the past. [[Applauds]] That's what happened. Mr Baldoví, you have spoken about Germany, the United States and the United Kingdom, and I say to you that a few months ago Germany has created a charge to make the facilities over 10 kilowatts pay 40% because there is a huge bubble and they do not want to raise the bill to consumers. Australia, which has 4,500 megawatts installed in self-consumption, knows what it has done? Canadian $400 was paid per megawatt/hour. Do you know how much they had to leave it as a result of that bubble? In 40. They have lowered the profitability of those investors in good faith. We do not want those rulers to be assimilated to us. I don't know if you're going that way, but for our part they won't have that taste. The decisions that my group is going to support - and I conclude, Madam President - are the ones that Minister Álvaro Nadal is pushing to ensure energy supply to those consumers who cannot afford it for economic reasons, not creating bubbles. Finally, I would like to tell the Citizens' Parliamentary Group that we are on the same path. I have participated in the European Commission, together with the European Investment Bank on some occasions, in a lot of projects...
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u129	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u130	I'm done, it's the last sentence, Madam President. ... to boost energy efficiency and renewables. We agree, but we had a signed pact and we have to bring it to Parliament, which is endorsed by all the groups, and from there continue to develop it. And I repeat that 95% of the facilities in this country do not pay any kind of toll. To continue working that way and to continue developing self-consumption without our seniors and pensioners getting the light, they will always have us; for the rest, I'm sorry but we will continue working for this country and for its people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' motion is based on the measures put forward by the European Commission in the so-called winter package with which it intends to lead the transition to clean energy. The proposed amendments to this package of measures affect areas considered key, such as energy efficiency, the electricity market or renewable energy. That is to say, this package sets out very different measures; the motion that is presented to us today by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group tells us above all about self-consumption. However, we understand that we have to address not only this point, but also everything that concerns the electricity market: tariffs, tolls from companies, etc., because these too are an important engine for this energy transition and for it to be done in a balanced way also in economic terms, so that both economic and environmental costs are the lowest possible. We also agree that there is a need for a road map setting out concrete objectives and measures to achieve the energy transition, but we also believe that the Government will need to coordinate with autonomous communities such as ours, Euskadi, as we have competence in this area: base, legislative development and implementation. In addition, we believe that synergies must be sought in order to ensure that energy policy is developed in an appropriate, consensual manner and taking into account the needs of each territory, and not as hitherto, since, regrettably, the demands that have been made in this field from the Basque industry, especially from the Basque industry, an industry with a high energy consumption and which, with the current regulation, bears too high electricity costs, leading to a decline in its competitiveness. However, on the issue of self-consumption, we have serious doubts as to whether what will ultimately entail is a transfer of costs from one consumer to another, harming those who cannot or do not generate energy, or even undermining the competitiveness of those companies that have a high seasonality. We saw this in the debate of the inquiry, in which the Government and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group differed around the concept of cost-efficiency and the figure that those self-consumers would stop paying, which leaves in the air who would bear these costs. Despite that, we understand that energy self-consumption with renewables is a technique to be developed and promoted; that the consumer must have the possibility to choose between buying energy on the network or producing it without hindrance, especially when there is already adequate technology, such as photovoltaics, to produce electricity locally. This is good for the electrical system because it provides balance and reduces network losses. Self-consumption can be promoted, for example, by fiscal measures or incentives and so that other consumers are not harmed. It is about achieving a balanced regulation for all, adjusting costs and with more competitive prices. Finally, the motion also talks about the concept of vulnerability. In this case we see that there is a deficiency and we would like that concept to be defined, further advocating that there should be coordination between energy and social policies, which have a lot to do with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u133	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u134	Good night, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite having one of the most expensive light bills in Europe, the Spanish state imports some €40 billion in energy resources and carries an electricity debt of more than €30 billion. Interestingly, as this debt of 30 billion is generated, the electricity companies have gained more than 45 billion profits. And it is that the Spanish electrical system gives birth to a paradox: it generates losses while giving great benefits. The explanation is that the losses are paid by the consumer and the scandalous profits are left by the big oligopoly companies. In fact, if there are about 30 billion debt and more than 45 billion profits, it means that debt is to pay for the scandalous profits, not the price of light. The high price of light - which we know today that even the CNMC will study -, beyond harming the standard of living of families and the competitiveness of businesses, is exacerbating the problem of energy poverty. [[Show a document]] However, it not only affects people's quality of life, but also has a clear impact on their health, as well as on health and social services spending. The most significant data at this level are the 7,000 premature deaths estimated to cause annually in Spain. The solution is to gradually abandon an inefficient, polluting and expensive system, based on exhausting hydrocarbons that we have to import from volatile prices, thus affecting the economic stability of the trade balance and to bet on renewable energies, and within them on self-consumption and decentralized production. If the Spanish State has not made the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy, and if, on the contrary, it has obstructed it by measures as surrealistic as the sun's tax, it has not been thinking of the common good, but of the results accounts of the companies that fatten the rotating doors of bipartisanism. For all this, even if it is very generalist, we can only - attention, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a mistake - vote in favour of the Citizens' motion. It would be better with transaction, but also without it. It is not by Christmas spirit, it is not that we have been abducted by unionist powers, it is only that we consider that in what we believe affects the common good, the benefit of working families, the improvement of the environment, the appeal to the purest common sense, we are able to unite efforts even with our most diametrically opposed opponents, and we do not seek extemporaneous excuses, such as invoking the epidemiology of human sexually transmitted diseases in order not to vote for the reduction of veterinary VAT. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. Merry Christmas to everyone and everyone. Good Nadal. Jori Anak. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u135	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Rodríguez Hernández whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u136	As we are very responsible we have come to a compromise text accepting most of the amendments, including some tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, so we hope that the text can finally be voted on in the terms of that compromise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u137	Thank you very much. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, on the government's asylum policy. [[File number 173/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u138	We shall then begin the debate on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the government's asylum policy. I hope you have not forgotten what I said five minutes ago for the debate on this motion. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Bustamante Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u139	Good night. As a result of the urgent interpellation to the Minister of the Interior, our Group of Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea today presents a motion with twenty-five measures to alleviate the serious crisis in relation to refugees. It is the result of the contributions of associations such as CEAR; the contributions of parties such as Compromís or the Catalan European Democratic Party, which we have taken up in the motion; the result of the GNP that was presented in the previous parliamentary term; the debate that took place in the framework of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; and the shortcomings highlighted in the report by the Ombudsman, Soledad Becerril. We believe that the right to asylum is fundamental in international policy. It is a right enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Geneva Convention, and it is a right that is currently in a serious crisis. Today there are more than 60 million refugees and 4,901 people who have died in the Mediterranean waters. No one here would let her die if she were in a pool, for example, and saw a person drowning. We therefore do not understand why European governments close their eyes or do not act more forcefully in the face of the tragedy of the death of almost 5,000 people in the Mediterranean Sea, which is the world's largest mass grave. Why do these dramatic events occur in the middle of the 21st century? We believe that there is an economic system, which is capitalism in its neoliberal phase, which makes 1% of the world's population possess more wealth than the remaining 99%, and that 80 people in the world possess more wealth than 3.5 billion people, according to Oxfam's report. It is a system that, despite the development of science, technology, does not guarantee the basic rights, bread, roof and work that every human being needs. Besides, it's a system that needs wars. Spain participated in the war in Iraq in 2003. The result was more than a million deaths, millions of refugees, poverty, exclusion, jihadism. Today in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after thirteen years, the dispatch of a new contingent to Iraq, with the support of the proposing People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Citizens' Party, has again been approved. In Libya, which was bombed, on 30 August the Italian coast guard rescued 6,500 immigrants in one day. In Syria, where Europe, through NATO, also participates, 12 million refugees. In Yemen, where Spanish weapons were found used by Saudi Arabia's army to bomb schools and hospitals, hundreds of thousands of refugees. In short, more than 60 million refugees are mainly the result of wars, inequality, poverty and exclusion. The European Union and Spain have acted shamefully in the face of this tragedy. Europe accounts for 0.2% of its population, compared to countries such as Lebanon, which accounts for 40% of its refugee population. Spain is committed, within the framework of the European Union's 2015 agreements, to hosting 17,000 refugees, of which only 687 have arrived. Spain's asylum policy, the European Union's policy, is therefore shameful. Says the Che: be able to feel any injustice anywhere in the world. We propose a series of measures, in particular 25: to restore the possibility of applying for asylum in all the Spanish embassies and consulates; the relocation and immediate resettlement of the 17,000 refugees committed by Spain; to raise the status or weight of the Asylum and Refugee Office, which is the one that centralizes all the demands for international protection in Spain, and that according to the Ombudsman's own report there are deficiencies, lack of interpreters, lack of staff, lack of investment, lack of training; to facilitate and guarantee legal assistance to all refugees; to adopt definitively the regulation of Law 12/2009, of Asylum, which provided in its third additional provision that within six months the regulations should be developed, and after seven years we still have no regulations providing guarantees to refugees; to expedite the processing of family reunification procedures, in which we have the example of the Syrian minor - which appears in the Ombudsman's report - with burns, to which the humanitarian visa is denied in Turkey by the Spanish decision. We also plan to eliminate the transit visa for refugees in conflict areas, for obvious reasons, because the one who comes running. We are taking concrete action to improve the protection of refugee minors; to put an end to hot returns, since Spain is internationally known for hot returns on the southern border, which is somewhat rejected by the basic principles of the Geneva Convention, rejected by the General Assembly of the United Nations, and which currently has the status of law, through the additional tenth provision of the Mordaza Act, which currently has a remedy of unconstitutionality, for two years awaiting resolution. We also propose to improve the reception conditions in temporary immigration centres, which host refugees despite not having been designed to do so; to end the cuts in the public network of reception centres and the cuts in NGOs, which also host them; to enable and encourage the participation of other administrations, such as the municipalities and the autonomous communities, which have expressed their willingness to participate and to be partners in the reception of people who need and require international protection; and to withdraw Spain's support for the shameful Turkey-European Union agreement. In short, a battery of twenty-five concrete measures that would significantly improve Mr Rajoy's poor asylum policy, and that if they are taken by the People's Party, they will improve the living conditions of refugees.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u140	Your Honor, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u141	Yes, I'm done, President. The minister said last Wednesday that we all have heart here. It's something material. Comrade Ana Terrón also said this: we from the left do not understand having a heart as a feeling of charity, but we understand it with being supportive, respectful of human rights and being internationalist. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u142	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, and if necessary for the establishment of a position, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that Spain is neither a country for refugees nor does it want to be, but let us specify: it is the Government of Spain that has no political will to fulfil its commitments to resettlement and relocation. As has been pointed out, of the 17,337 people we were supposed to accommodate in two years, only 687 have arrived in the country. But we are not only talking about numbers, but about people who struggle between life and death, who flee fratricidal wars, are persecuted for their ideology or flee violence in a hopeless context. The measures that the Spanish Government has put in place so far to achieve the promised results are far from being modelled on: hot returns, abuse of force, concerts and deadly knives, overcrowding in detention centres, deprivation of freedom of movement. This shows a model that turns its back on human rights. We will support this motion tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to which we have tabled several amendments which seek, without changing their spirit, to improve it. We have tabled a technical amendment in the first place. We also call for the inclusion in the text of this motion of the reference to European directives pending transposition. Thirdly, we propose the necessary revision of the Spain-Morocco agreement, which has been used as a justification for hot returns. Finally, it is also very important to bear in mind that the action of the autonomous administrations must be allowed. There are autonomous governments calling on the State to coordinate and implement policies for the reception of refugees. Governments such as the Valencian have the necessary infrastructure to accommodate 1,400 people. Since 15 January, the Valencian Government has been waiting for a response to the request made to the Government of Spain to sign a cooperation agreement for the humanitarian transfer of refugees, which can be done because it has a boat at its disposal and can transfer 1,100 people each trip. He hasn't got an answer yet. We also have in the Valencian country a network of 133 welcoming municipalities, or ciutat refuges, coordinated by the Council and which also continues to wait for the authorization of the central government. And I end with a question: how long is this negative? How long must we endure being prevented from working for refugees from our territories, while the central Government continues to slip away without offering any humanitarian alternative? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u144	I now give the floor to Mr Campuzano i Canadés.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us support Mr Bustamante's proposal. This is a very consistent motion with initiatives that Mr Xuclà and I have advocated in the past and in this Parliament. In fact, more or less 15 days ago, the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a non-legislative proposal in this same direction, where we also clearly focused on the need for a different European policy in this area to take on board the revision of the Dublin Convention, which is very clear that during this refugee crisis it has failed dramatically. The virtue of the initiative that we are debating now and of the question that was defended a few weeks ago is that it highlights the failure of the Spanish Government's policy in this area. It is not just because of the numbers of refugees that Spain has welcomed, 1% of the European Union's refugee quota, a ratio of 76 refugees per million inhabitants, when the European average is 702 refugees per million inhabitants - Spain is being absolutely scarred in this area - but because of the exhaustion of the host model that has been developing in recent years. A welcoming model capable of dealing with a small number of refugees such as that which Spain was hosting, but unable to respond to the dimension of that humanitarian crisis, and in which it is fundamental - Mr Bataller said now, and we agree on this - that the autonomous communities and local administrations have a fundamental role in this policy. Moreover, in the 10th Legislature we agreed with the Socialist Party that refugee reception programmes could be managed by the autonomous communities. It is essential that this mandate can be fulfilled, and that this reception policy in our case be managed by the Government of Catalonia, which also has an active position on this issue. And we are convinced that finally on this issue we need a solid European project, based on co-responsibility among all the Member States and responding to the crisis we are experiencing in Ceuta and Melilla, where the Geneva Convention is not being implemented.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u146	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u147	Thank you, President. I was reading that President Rajoy an hour ago said in the UN that the new slavery of the 21st century is human trafficking and that he urges the UN to act. And I was surprised to hear that, because of course there is a problem with human trafficking, because refugees cannot leave their countries with normal systems. Of course I do. And the newspaper also said that Mr Rajoy had shared the experience he had had when hearing the mayor of Aleppo at the European Summit. And what is this country doing? And what is Europe doing? As I was saying the other day - arguing with a person I'm not going to say who he is, but they can suspect it -, when a mother with a child throws herself into the sea and falls into a mob it's because what's behind is worse. If you don't throw yourself with your child at sea, especially a mother doesn't throw yourself with two or three children to die at sea to go to a place she doesn't know or where she is, and that's because what leaves behind is worse. Europe is failing to comply with the international conventions that were made after the world war so that that would not happen again. We are failing to comply with the Geneva Convention. And already when they came and we agreed to welcome 17,000 people we criticized the government and said they were few. The autonomous communities, the municipalities, the Catholic Church, the parishes at the request of the pope said that every parish in this country would receive a family. And they're all looking the other way. Unaccompanied children... I think we need to react. And I want to congratulate Podemos because it's a magnificent motion. I who have worked on these nine years on these issues believe that it is very complete, that it is very well worked and that it deserves to be approved. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of President Rajoy of the People's Party has certainly not been the most sensitive to the serious humanitarian crisis in Europe, with the displacement of millions of people fleeing terror, war and death. Nor has Mr Rajoy's government been the most proactive in complying with the 2015 European Council agreement - as has already been said - in which Spain committed itself to relocate and resettling more than 17,000 refugees. I would like to put the data, the last figure of people relocated and resettled has already been said, but I would like to point out that we have been with the accountant for almost a year 18 people. That is the level of interest that President Rajoy's government has had. A sad record for which Brussels has made a very harsh criticism, and that is no less so, because it clearly shows the government's lack of will. Even the Rajoy Government has not been tempted to do something that is exclusively within its competence, something that was perfectly within its competence: to draw up the regulations enabling the development of Law 12/2009 of 30 October, which regulates the right of asylum and subsidiary protection. No, it hasn't been a year, it hasn't been two, it hasn't been three, it hasn't been five; it's been seven years and this law is still an orphan of regulation. That is to be able to urge a Government to fulfil its responsibility, with what it can do. Mr Rajoy attaches great importance to economic affairs, to Brussels' economic achievements, but he does not give people that much urgency. The adoption of these regulations is essential if we are to regulate and address some of the shortcomings that have already been made clear in the Ombudsman's report of June this year. It is an essential instrument that our group is of course going to urge the Government to do so in the appropriate way. So much insensitivity and inactivity on the part of the Government of the People's Party make it necessary for us in this House to be particularly active in promoting compliance policies, especially because Spain's commitment is fulfilled. The truth is that we have made a certain journey, so that in these last two legislatures four initiatives have been adopted, and that is good news, and they have so far been adopted with a high degree of consensus. There has been an institutional declaration by all political groups on asylum and refugees, and there have been two sessions in the Joint Commission for the European Union at which the different groups have agreed on compromise amendments. In these initiatives - this is also important to highlight - there are still up to 56 points of improvement that have been urged by the different groups to the People's Party Government. It was a good time to see the degree of compliance with those 56 points when the Lordships of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea have presented this motion. One of the greatest problems of this motion is that it ignores what has been achieved to date, and again puts the accountant to add 23 more instances. Let us go on to say that from the Socialist Party we fully, totally and unequivocally share the need to encourage the Spanish Government to improve asylum policy, but we believe that it is time to urge the Government to fulfil what it can do here and now. In the amendment that we have tabled - that is why we have made the effort to try to find the point of agreement, which is what is required of us in this House - we have brought together the 23 points with very different levels of hierarchy where at the same level was the denunciation of the Turkey Agreement with what could be the improvement of the administrative organization. Despite all that effort, ladies and gentlemen, we have not been able to get an agreement to focus on those points that we believe the Government should do. We're going to keep working. In this motion we will abstain because we do not share that ideology goes ahead of the victims. We believe that ideology must be at the service of solutions for people, and in this case there are issues embodied in this compromise amendment that are not solutions; I therefore believe that we must continue to work. This is not going to be the last initiative, because our group will continue to work to push forward this change in the asylum policy of the People's Party Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u150	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u151	Thank you very much, President. We are presented with a motion on asylum policy, with considerations that we substantially share in the causes behind the existence of asylum-seeking refugees. We also share the collective international responsibility in which each State has its aliquot share as a member of the concert of States and which today derives from international treaties and from a basic rule of human relations: solidarity. We also share the negative view regarding the asylum policies of the State Government, both in the implementation of agreements adopted within the Union for the relocation and settlement of refugees, as well as outside the Union, inter alia, difficulties in submitting applications, the poor network of reception centres, massive returns, the situation of the Asylum and Refugee Office denounced by the Ombudsman, the reluctance to process asylum applications, the lack of coordination with relocation offers made by the municipalities and the autonomous communities, the insistent or non-existent regulatory development of the Asylum Act or the same amendment to this and other issues dealt with in the motion. However, all this is not justification - at least so we believe - for presenting a motion such as the one tabled: all at once and now, twenty-three points of unnumbered measures covering everything possible. Right now we have received a number of compromise amendments that we cannot agree with in an acritic manner, such as accommodation in indirect management financed by public economic aid to refugees, without nuances, or the availability of autonomous health, education or social services for asylum seekers without having had access to the autonomous communities, or some others that I will not enter, such as not allowing interviews with police personnel, or the direct questioning of decisions of the Union to which we are bound, such as the determination of the host country exclusively by the asylum seeker. It is a motion with many measures of different significance and consequences, with simultaneous urgent application and with some other measures with which we do not agree. Although we share many of her proposals, we have doubts about many others, and that prevents us from supporting her in her terms. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u152	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u153	Very good evening to all of you. Thank you, President. The independent Republicans will vote in favour of this proposal, which obviously greatly improves the current situation - it does not cost so much either -. But what is important here is not what we are going to vote on, but what the Spanish Government intends to do. The question is precisely this: What does the Spanish Government intend to do? Do you intend to continue to turn your back on those who seek international protection? Do you intend to maintain the memory in the face of a situation that we already experience thousands of Catalans, Basques, Spaniards during the Civil War and after the victory of Francoism with hundreds of thousands of refugees in the world? Does the Spanish Government intend to continue to rajatabla with the recipe that was tested in Ceuta and Melilla and that has now been imposed in Turkey? This is what the Spanish Government intends to do, because it also confuses words with facts on this issue. As Mr Bustamante has rightly said today, but also at last week's plenary session, the Rajoy Government suspends with a zero potato - I don't know if it sounds like it - on the subject of asylum, and this is demonstrated by the demolishing report of the Ombudsman. If it is too long - it is - they just need to read the conclusions and that will make it quite clear to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the images of hundreds of thousands of people seeking asylum at Europe's borders are challenging us. What is Europe's response? What is the answer given by the Government of the Spanish State? Allowing borders to be closed and increasing restrictions on immigration is not exactly a sign of the solidarity that the treaties uphold. As reported by Acnur, last year Europe failed to implement a collective and well-managed response to the challenges posed by the arrival of more than a million refugees and immigrants. This has resulted in scenes of chaos at the borders, generating a crisis of confidence on the part of citizens regarding the ability of governments to manage this situation. This crisis has also benefited those who want to turn refugees - and I assure you there are many - into scapegoats or a business for the mafias. It is important for the Member States of the European Union to demonstrate through collective action that Europe is capable of managing refugee movements in an effective manner and based on respect for its founding principles and more in keeping with its history. Europe must be prepared to continue to receive refugees on its territory through contingency planning. Expanding safe routes for refugees in Europe would put realistic and meaningful alternatives, such as the implementation of efficient management and an effective asylum system. The Government was aware that it should implement the recommendations of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. You know what they'd have to do, too? What they would have to do is to bring down the shameful fences in Ceuta and Melilla, as well as to put an end to the hot returns, which are firmly contrary to the European international human rights law, which prohibits collective expulsions. They should also thoroughly review the reception and integration system in order to have an appropriate approach to the protection of unaccompanied and separated children and to provide the necessary funds for humanitarian development assistance programmes and situations of forced displacement. And above all, what they would have to do is internalize that in order to give a better response to the challenges of asylum and refuge in the present world it must be done in collaboration with other administrations, such as the Catalan Administration, which has expressed on more than one occasion its willingness to contribute, its willingness to improve and resolve the situation of these people and has promoted actions to participate or actively intervene, or with civil society, such as the promoters in Catalonia of the campaign Casa nostra, your home or Stop Mare Mortum, who call for a social reaction to so many deaths and so much insensitivity. This morning - and I finish, Madam President - you have again missed an opportunity to anticipate the new wave of refugees that will arrive sooner or later - the Kurdish people who are being displaced from their towns and cities by the Turkish army, which by the way uses weapons sold more than a decade ago by Spanish companies with the approval of the various governments that have happened since then in this country - voting against the non-law proposal of the Republican Left that called for encouraging cooperation and humanitarian aid in Kurdistan. Now I'm done. Today one of the MPs of the People's Democratic Party has appeared in Catalonia to warn us of this situation, but you continue to deny the reality and disregard the calls that tomorrow's refugees are already sending you today. Spanish society, ladies and gentlemen, Basque society, also Catalan society and Galicia do not want any more excuses, it is no longer time for excuses, and they ask that this be a land of reception and asylum now. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u154	Thank you very much. I give the floor, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to Mr Maura Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u155	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to look at one of the classic products of the Podemos Parliamentary Group tonight: a cocktail that mixes such diverse topics as wars, climate change, energy models, the economy, wealth, poverty, income distribution, refugees and immigrants, all in equal parts and a lot of demagogy. That cocktail has been baptized by you as a government asylum policy. The motion is poorly informed, as I see it, and it is disorienting, because it confuses refugees with immigrants for economic reasons. I believed that it was wars, as established in the four Geneva conventions, or dictatorial regimes that generated asylum requests. By the way, speaking of dictatorial regimes, I remind you that there are more Venezuelans than Syrians who have applied for asylum in Spain in the first half of this year and that more than a million Cubans left the island for different countries such as the United States or Spain during the Fidel and Raúl Castro regime. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Well, that is what the Dublin Regulation regulates precisely, that the current refugee crisis has shown that it does not work well either and that we want to change from the ALDE Group in the European Parliament. It is also disorienting that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey provides European funds and benefits to Turkey. The funds have a finalist character and the intended benefits will not be realized until Turkey adopts legislation on human rights and freedoms, which, we see, is highly unlikely. I have to give you one reason, it is true that in the area of asylum our Government has demonstrated its inability, lack of solidarity and remoteness with the demands of Spanish society. According to UNHCR data, only 398 persons have been relocated to the relocation of 16,000 committed persons and 1,450 to the resettlement of only 289 persons. It's not weird. The Secretary of State for the European Union himself acknowledged to us last week that the Government did not agree with the commitment it made in its day. Here are the results, which, as you can see, are highly inadequate in the reception of refugees. We also share the need to provide the OAR with specialized means and to depoliticize the Interministerial Commission on Asylum. His motion is also contradictory, because he wants Spain to fulfil its host commitments while he believes that refugees should choose the country to which they want to go, giving the Government reason. What if they prefer to go to other countries? How will Spain meet the host commitments then? On the one hand, they criticize the Government and, on the other, they give it reason. Nor is it practical. If the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is cancelled, it does not seem that the figures for the arrival of refugees will improve, so that the number of dead at sea and their living conditions in Greece will not be reduced, as far as refugees arriving in Europe through the Aegean are concerned. Do we want more dead or less? More cases like boy Aylan drowned on a Turkish beach or less? You have the right to bring unilateral initiatives to this Parliament, even if they are scattered, disoriented and demagogic; you have the right, but there are other ways to address this very serious problem. I will tell you what we understand from Citizens that must be resolved as a procedure to follow. First, manage the deal. Building on the agreement of the Joint Commission of the European Union last March, we accept the proposal made to us by UNHCR to all parliamentary groups to reach a consensus among the parties for the reception of refugees, which, in our view, should take into account for their implementation the Government, of course, and the autonomous communities and municipalities concerned as well. Secondly, we are working from the European Parliament with those who want to improve the Dublin regulation, rather than working together and, by the way, voting with those who only want to close Europe's borders to refugees. We don't have Marine Le Pen, Nigel Farage or Geert Wilders as bed mates. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u156	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u157	I'm done, Madam President. Two hundred years before Jesus Christ, Polybius said that democracy was perverted into demagogy. Well, against demagogy and unilateral discourse, democracy, agreement and work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u158	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Mateu Istúriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good night. Spain is a country in which fundamental rights and freedoms are respected. Precisely this matter, that of the right of asylum, is absolutely guaranteed by Law 12/2009, which in its article 18 establishes an absolute list of procedural guarantees for persons who come to our territory for vicissitudes not desired by them, obviously. That is why the Spanish Government is developing a policy of high heights, responsibility, plagued and imbued with humanity and feeling, and is demonstrating this, indeed. It therefore sets out a number of measures in this regard. Spain has also collaborated with international institutions in order to be able to carry out all these activities with a view to migration and the right to asylum. Let us not forget that, due to the increase in the migration crisis, Spain has had to adapt a number of situations to its own internal legal framework, as well as being a proactive actor in its collaboration with the European Union. Precisely, the Minister of the Interior has already told us what our activity has been within the relocation and resettlement of migrants. I am not going to repeat this, because it made it very clear that Spain, despite the vicissitudes that have been encountered, has been proactive and has worked in this area. I do not like to establish rankings in this system, but despite the difficulties, such as that Acnur established a delay of more than six months in the sending of persons, despite the fact that the decisions in its article 5 stemmed from the procedure that had to be established, and despite that interim Government that Spain had, which at no time has ceased in its powers, achieved appreciable result. Ladies and gentlemen, every human work is perfectable. That is why the Minister extended his hand so that in the future you could negotiate and talk about this subject of migration in order to improve procedures. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I must remind the proposing group that I am surprised by an aspect that has been forgotten in this motion, whether intentionally or out of ignorance. I am referring to a classification of refugees and asylum-seekers, I am referring in particular to the people who had to leave the Basque Country and settle in another territory - since today we are talking about terrorism - in Spanish territory. Why? For the activity of blackmail, terrorism and murder of the terrorist gang ETA, of which precisely one of its leaders is a person whom the Podemos Group has praised as a man of peace and accompanying him on his journey through the European institutions to try to whiten his image. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, my group is not going to support this motion, but it is going to have the exception of the hand held by the Minister of the Interior in this respect. Let us sit down, ladies and gentlemen, because in this pool that you have made, in this mix of measures, up to twenty-five, many have neither feet nor heads, they have no meaning, because they confuse international law, confuse migration and confuse the right to asylum. You have to sort out the ideas and it doesn't fit everything in the same bin. You have to sit down and develop it carefully. Therefore, I would also like to tell you to leave Ceuta and Melilla alone, because they are paradigmatic examples of how migrants and refugees are welcomed, precisely with the activity of the Minister of the Interior, who has created offices both in Ceuta and Melilla. [[Applauds]] I insist, we are going to vote against this motion, but before concluding my speech, I wanted to comment briefly on one issue - you will understand that I do not have time to go into the substance of the twenty-five measures that have emerged from the compromise reached by the three political groups - which is the OAR. The OAR is an acronym for the Asylum and Refugee Office. The Spanish Government has increased not by a hundred per cent - Minister, let me correct you - but by almost 100.5 per cent the previous year's budget. This has led to the hiring of nearly ninety interim staff to resolve situations and increased financial allocations to improve the quality of interpreters as well. The Government of Spain will continue to work hard to improve conditions and procedures, because, I insist, every human work is perfectable. Furthermore, within this sphere of dialogue - we have said that we want this legislature to be that of dialogue - we will always be ready to talk and negotiate on each and every one of the measures that you propose, starting, of course, with the 25 measures that are in this compromise. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Merry Christmas and that next year is full of agreements and commitments for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u160	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Bustamante Martín whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u161	Yeah. There were groups that talked about Venezuela and ETA. Those who have tabled amendments on refugees have been accepted and have already been accepted by the Bureau. [[Rumors]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u162	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in one minute. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u163	Let's start the vote. First, we voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, repealing the Organic Law 15/2015, of 16 October, reforming the Organic Law 2/1979, of 3 October, of the Constitutional Court, for the implementation of the resolutions of the Constitutional Court as a guarantee of the rule of law. Organic law. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 94; against, 162 plus 1 telematics vote, 163; abstentions, 81 plus 1 telematics vote, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u164	It's rejected. - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, A BODY FOR REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/1979 OF 3 OCTOBER, OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 122/000042]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u165	We then turn to the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, an organic reform of the Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October of the Constitutional Court. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] Presents, 339 plus 2 votes cast telematically; yes, 175... [[Applauds]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 339 plus 2 votes were cast by telematics, 341; in favour, 175 plus one vote by telematics, 176; against, 164 plus one vote by telematics, 165.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u166	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, AMENDING ARTICLE 42.1 OF THE STATUS OF WORKERS TO GUARANTEE EQUALITY IN THE WORKING CONDITIONS OF SUBCONTRACTED WORKERS. [[File number 122/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u167	We then turn to the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending Article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute to ensure equality in the working conditions of subcontracted workers. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] Presents, 339 plus 2 votes cast telematically; yes, 175 plus 1 vote cast telematically... [[Applauds]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 339 and 2 votes were cast by telematics, 341; 175 plus 1 vote by telematics, 176; 132 plus 1 vote by telematics, 133; abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u168	Accordingly, consideration of the proposed law was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u169	We shall now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. First, the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to continue to drive the process of adopting an international status for victims of terrorism. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 330 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u170	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament (CGE) AND GUARANTEE OF THE LABORAL CONDITIONS OF ROOMS IN THE TOURIST SECTOR. [[File number 162/000237]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u171	We then proceed to the vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the improvement and guarantee of the working conditions of the housekeepers in the tourism sector. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Esquerra Republicana and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] Presents, 339; yes, 176... [[Applauds]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 339; in favour, 176; against, 131; abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u172	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u173	We shall then proceed to the votes on the motions as a result of urgent questioning. The Socialist Parliamentary Group's motion on urgent measures against poverty will be voted on in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, Esquerra Republicana and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 201 against, 132 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u174	The motion was approved. [[Rumors]] - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GOVERNMENT POLICY TO IMPLEMENT THE MEASURES RECENTLY APPROVED BY THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION TO ENCOURAGE THE GLOBAL ENERGY TRANSITION TO CLEAN ENERGY. [[File number 173/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u175	We then proceed to vote on the Citizens' Parliamentary Group's motion on the government's policy to implement the measures recently adopted by the European Commission, aimed at leading the global energy transition to clean energy. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mixto and Ciudadanos. [[Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández asks for the floor]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u176	We do not accept the compromise amendment and would ask the proposing group to allow its motion, in its original terms, to be voted on by points.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u177	Thank you very much. I ask the Citizens' Parliamentary Group whether it accepts the vote in the terms that the motion had been put forward or whether it wishes to vote by points.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u178	I want to make it clear that the compromise text included the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group, which does not want to vote on them. Of course, we are not going to accept a point vote. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u179	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, tonight I will make two last pleas. Firstly, when they intervene to make any kind of clarification, this will be done in the terms requested by the Presidency. Secondly, as it is mandatory, I would ask you to applaud after you say the result of the votes, if you want us all to comply with the Rules of Procedure. We therefore voted on the motion of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in the same terms as it was put forward. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] Presents, 339... [[Applauds]] This is the advantage that it has to be in this plenary, to see that most of you forget things in a minute. [[Laughter]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 200 against, 1 abstention, 138.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u180	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, on the government's asylum policy. [[File number 173/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u181	We finally voted for the motion of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the government's asylum policy. The vote will take place on the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 88 against, 132 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2016-12-20-CD161220.u182	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was ten and thirty-five minutes of the night.
