ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Bogdan Barovic, Jožef Bernik, Michael Brejc, Franc Čebulj from 18.30 p.m. on, Vojko Čeligoj, Feri Horvat from 13.00 to 17.00 p.m., Roman Jakič, Aurelio Juri, Jelko Kacin, Jožef Kavticnik, Bojan Kontič, Alexander Merlo, Alojz Peterle, Janez Podobnik, Cyril Pucko from 2.00 p.m. and Jože Tanko from 16.00 p.m. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - second defensively proposed law on graduation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Education, Science and Sports Dr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! After the government introduced the law on graduation for the first time in 1995, after several years of waiting for proceedings here in the National Assembly for the first time in 1999, and today we are together before the second hearing. At the same time, on the basis of only the basic provisions of other laws and in the context of thorough processing in the Rules of Procedure, the Matura has developed. As a matter of fact, she has experienced quite a move forward, and this law before us also governs her professional graduation at the general prom. When the graduation was first held, it was successfully held by 7,388 candidates and candidates, and in last year it was 8,851, and 11,317 of those who attended the professional graduation joined them. In this way, more than 20,000 young people in Slovenia have proved their maturity for continuing the study. The bill before us is trying to ensure the safety of students and students in the process thoroughly and along with these additions, which have also been adopted by the Committee, I think the issue of graduation in Slovenia is properly regulated. Externity as a complement to the evaluation, which takes place in schools, has proved to be an appropriate complement in Slovenia in the last decade or together as a suitable overall for assessing achievements in our education system. The government also supports the additions that have been adopted and proposes that we adopt the law before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u3	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u4	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The law that we are considering today is the last in a series of reforms and laws in the field of education and education. It was already submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 1995 and was dealt with twice in the first and second parliamentary terms in the first and second parliamentary proceedings. A public presentation of the opinions was also made on this law. At the first reading, the National Assembly adopted it at its 14th session in May 1999 and adopted eleven positions at the same time. The text of the proposal for second reading was presented by the Government on 19.7.2002 by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport at its 17th session and at its 18th session, when it completed the debate on Articles 5 and 7 of the legislative proposal on 26 November 2002 on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly. 42 amendments were tabled for consideration at the meeting of the Committee on 7 November 2002. At that time, the Committee formed 19 other amendments. Let me tell you what was the subject of the amendment. I would like to mention in particular the following here. The members of the Committee supported the initiative to include in the law the possibility of adapting the performance of a diploma to those candidates who would be prevented from doing so because of an accident or illness or other exceptional circumstances. This is covered by the amendment of the Committee to Article 4. The Committee considered that the implementation of the graduation in national mixed areas for members of the Hungarian and Italian nationalities was adequately resolved to the extent that no new provisions on the first language in the joint part of the graduation in bilingual schools or on the language of the national community need not be added and therefore did not accept the amendment of Ambassador Maria Possoncheva. He did not support an amendment whereby only subjects of the common part of the graduation would be performed at a higher level of difficulty, because he considered that these items were more selective in favour of the candidates. Nor did he follow the amendment to simplify the regulation of professional criteria as a condition for membership in the senior committees and insisted that the President of the national commission concerned could be only a teacher of higher education. The Committee followed the amendment to delete the provision of Article 50, paragraph 1, of the legislative proposal that the applicant must provide proof of the payment of the costs of the examination, which shall be returned to him in the event of a valid objection, in a written request for examination. The opinion prevailed that the right of agreement should not depend on the social situation of the candidate. Most of the amendments were editorial in nature. These were largely based on the warnings of the legislative and legal service. Complementary treatment of Articles 5 and 7 of the legislative proposal was carried out by the Committee after the opinions of the Municipal and Coastal Self-Governmental National Community and the position of the Commission of the National Assembly. The coastal Italian national community advocates that in schools with Italian learning language in ethnically mixed areas the subject of the common part of the graduation be exclusively Italian. The Hungarian and Hungarian national communities, however, agreed on a solution whereby candidates in bilingual schools in mixed ethnic areas could choose between Slovenian and Hungarian as a compulsory subject of the joint part of the graduation. Both views were fully summarised by the National Assembly Commission and proposed the adoption of the relevant amendments. The Committee has fully adopted the opinions or amendments to Articles 5 and 7 in its amendments. All decisions taken by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body in the second reading of the legislative proposal on 7 November 2000 and 15 January 2003 are included in the new draft law on graduation, which you could read in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly No. 2. of 18.1.2003 and is the subject of a hearing at a meeting of the National Assembly. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt the law after eight years and thereby pass the mature examination of the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to see the proposal of the law on graduation presented to us today in our second reading. Seven or eight years ago, this bill was tabled by the Government in the legislative process. After four years, he had his first reading. Of course, the current version of the bill in several places differs from the original version of the proposal. These differences are due to the fact that the remaining school legislation has been adopted in the meantime. It was also necessary to take into account the position of the National Assembly, which was adopted after the first reading in 1999. We have adopted quite a number of amendments on the home work body, which in some places are more precise about the marriage proposal, while in others they complement and improve. The mother labour body was also accepted by the amendment of the Hungarian National Community and the Italian National Community by Articles 5 and 7. This seems reasonable to us because such a legal way will be to hold a graduation that urinates in practice. It also takes into account the legally defined objectives of bilingual schools and schools with Italian learning language, which form the basis for the protection of the language and culture of minorities. The New Slovenia Group believes that the law in its current form will serve its purpose by means of the amendment, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia is to be presented by Mr Lenko. Don't you want to introduce yourself? Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Today we are considering an important law on graduation. The graduation will also formally end secondary education, thus also providing conditions for further education in appropriate higher schools and universities or for employment. The Matura represents one of the key milestones of education, and is thus a demonstration of the quality of students, educational institutions and educational programmes, and of course of the country's attitude, i.e. the policy towards this important project, which must follow national objectives and priorities. Even though this is an important law, the bill, according to our parliamentary group, has some inconsistencies. The first is that the rights of both minorities are not equal. We believe that the solutions to the second paragraphs of Article 5 and 7 which place both communities in a different position and give candidates of one of the communities greater opportunities than candidates of the other community in their choice of language are not acceptable. Also, the powers of the State Commission for Vocational Prom leave vis-à-vis the State General Prom are quite distorted, as shown in Articles 12 and 14. The National Commission for Vocational Graduates is not competent to issue opinions on secondary education programmes or to deal with and decide on candidates’ complaints, nor can it appoint experts who are different for the subject of vocational schools than for the subject of high school programmes. We believe that commissions should have the same powers. Such a solution puts students who complete vocational education in procedures related to objections and complaints in a completely different way, and particularly in a significantly worse situation, because they do not have the possibility of a second stage complaint to the State Commission, and the decision of the School Graduate Commission is final. Therefore, no complaint to the independent appellate body is provided and, in these cases, the objectivity of the decision may also be questioned. We also consider the appeal to be hands [[Articles 47 and 50]] the absolute length of time and are intended only to dissuade the potential complainant from the intention. The objective is therefore not an effective rapid control and an early positive or negative solution to the opposition, allowing the candidate to confirm or correct the results in a timely manner and to register as soon as possible at the selected or desired university or college, but rather means, in particular, a large, substantial possibility of losing the entry into the selected educational programme and also dissuading the students from the complaint. A candidate who has expressed doubts about the evaluation and who has complained to the State Commission will be able to be punished by this because he will have to either enter another school or have to sacrifice the year to achieve the goal. The protection of rights is therefore a chapter that is more intended for itself. The deadlines are lifeless, so the schooling youth is just too much capital to afford such a solution. In the parliamentary group, we are skeptical of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister with fellow Members! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats is a proposal for a law on graduation all the time it has been created to monitor with great commitment, as it regulates the highly complex and important content associated with the achievement of the fundamental, and it seems that this is also a common objective, a knowledge-based society. At the same time, it is for the future of our country the most sensitive and valuable part of the population. The time elapsed from the introduction of the bill to its second reading was, among other things, usefully used, since, among other things, the often controversial reactions of the public and the profession to the prom and the search for systemic solutions that would be consistent with those set out, were faced in the public presentation of opinions, and in particular the proposed solutions followed the development of the profession and the experience gained at the general graduation. The law regulates 4 substantive sets of systemic issues, and it is essential that these issues be addressed for the general and professional graduations. Both are defined as a state examination, which in the first case is the completion of secondary general education without professional qualifications and in the second conclusion of vocational or vocational education. They both have a qualification role as they enable the continuation of education, although with different opportunities to enter individual higher and higher education and university curricula. The most contradictory opinions were related mainly to the content of the general graduation, since the model with three mandatory and two optional subjects did not seem appropriate to some, if it was required for candidates and candidates. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, at first, partly attached themselves to those who advocated selectivity between mathematics and foreign language in the compulsory part of the graduation, but considered the substantive arguments for the proposed model. Knowledge of at least one foreign language is shown to be a necessity for life in the multilingual community of European countries and is an essential component of general education, while some studies show that success in mathematics has a very high forecast value for success in the follow-up to the study. It is therefore appropriate that both of them, in addition to their mother tongues, are mandatory content of the State examination, which proves general education and the ability to continue education. Comparisons with other educational systems also show that the situation of mathematics and foreign languages is being strengthened. However, the model of professional graduation with two compulsory and optional subjects seemed to be appropriate all the time. As part of the issues governing the rights and obligations of candidates and candidates, we have examined in particular how the protection of their rights is regulated, how the rights to appeal in the event of procedural infringements are defined, the right to object to an assessment and the right to examine the examination documentation. We believe that the proposed provisions are sufficient guarantees for the protection of those rights. Of course, we are aware that an increase in the number of views and complaints could jeopardise the quality and timely implementation of the appeals procedures related to the reassessment and assessment of the merits of each complaint and, last but not least, to the limited number of well-trained experts. We have no comments on the set-up and competences of the senior authorities, and it seems appropriate to us that the management of the committees in question is generally entrusted to higher education teachers, while the main assessor is a high school teacher, because this is based on the responsibilities and competences of both. The practice has examined and complemented a set of issues related to the procedures and modalities of graduation during these years. Most of the different opinions were related to the relationship between external and internal evaluation, evaluation and evaluation. In this regard, in our view, it is necessary to distinguish between systemic solutions and the quality of performance that can be improved through the continuous professional completion of all in education and evaluation of the teachers involved and other participants. Let me get this. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the amended bill along with the coalition amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Vila Trofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. All in attendance have a nice greeting! In the parliamentary group, we first express the satisfaction that a second consideration of this important law has finally taken place. While in the past, we have expressed some concerns about the composition of the State Examination Commission, as well as about the conduct of the committees in question, or on our part, some of the dilemmas about the re-election of the State Graduate Commission have been expressed. However, in view of the complementary proposal, we express our support for this complementary proposal, as we estimate that it adequately addresses the issue of both general and professional graduations, and we will, of course, also support the amendments that we have co-signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The views of the National Party's Group are to be presented by Mr Saša Pece. We will now hear the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the years following the independence, the secondary education system has changed so much that it is difficult to follow it, from the time of targeted education, when graduation was not necessary, to final exams and graduations. The changes have also brought controversy about the quality of graduations, the number of graduations, the different levels of the challenge of graduation, the professional graduation, and, last but not least, the stress that students experience when they graduate. Therefore, after all this time, the system law that will govern this area is more than welcome. The proposal for a law was tabled by the Government as a proponent in 1995. After the first examination, the law waited several years for a second reading. It has therefore received substantial corrections. Therefore, we can rightly wonder why this law has not yet been considered. Among other things, the law brings some novelties, especially a vocational degree, which allows graduates of secondary technical and other vocational education to continue their studies in higher and higher schools and in some university curricula. We agree with the proposed innovation in the Youth Party, because we believe that it would be unacceptable for students who choose to attend technical and vocational secondary schools and perform their graduation to be given only the title of vocational education, but who would not be able to continue their studies and improve their knowledge. In our opinion, the country should not allow itself to indirectly favour students who perform a general graduation by limiting the continuation of the study to those who opt for vocational schools. Each graduate must have the opportunity to continue formal education, as learning is the basis of development and progress. We also believe in the Youth Party that it is necessary to consider establishing activities that are not compatible with the function of membership in the National Commissions for the General and Professional Prom and the National Commissions for the General and Professional Prom. Under the law, the tasks of the committees include the regulation and issuance of graduation materials. By editing and issuing materials, the state examination centre becomes also a publishing house for which the members of the committees write. In this way, the members of the national commission concerned shall use information for their copyright work that is not accessible to anyone outside the national commission in question, and the national commission concerned shall also have the right to assess the adequacy of the material issued by the publications by the graduates. An amendment was adopted on the parent committee, which, as referred to in Article 50, deletes the provisions on the payment of costs by looking into the examination documentation and supporting it in the Party of Youth Slovenia. In reviewing the amendments tabled for third reading, however, we can find an amendment reintroducing the payment of these costs. Although it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that candidates who prove themselves unable to pay the sum because of social problems, there is an opportunity for the state examination centre to exempt them from payment. If this amendment is adopted, even though some members of the parliamentary groups who are now proposing this amendment to the Education Committee have voted against the introduction of the payment, the question arises how the state examination centre will identify the social problems of the candidate or how the student will prove it. That is why we oppose this amendment in the Party of Young Slovenia, since we are again reducing the possibility of looking into the examination documentation for those students who are unable to afford the costs. In addition, in the event of a complaint concerning the calculation of the examination, they await the results of the State Commission for two months. We will support the law on graduation in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, because we believe that after a decade when the rules of the game have changed several times, it is high time for us to get a law that will also regulate this area in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u16	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the law on graduation, which was introduced into the 1995 legislative procedure, rounds the school legislation already adopted and, with certain corrections, follows the practice so far in the implementation or performance of the general graduation and professional graduation. The first reading of the law three years ago presented a series of different opinions and suggestions on how to pass the mature examination and the State Assembly adopted 11 positions, taking into account the text of the law for the second reading which substantially changed. Thus, the proposal for a law on graduation defines the content of the general and professional diploma, which is newly incorporated into the draft law on second reading, the rights and obligations of candidates or candidates for the holding of the graduation exams, the composition and competences of the graduation bodies and the manner and procedure of the graduation exercise. In addition, the proposal for a law on graduation defines both the general graduation and the vocational exam, where secondary and secondary vocational education are obtained through the general course. According to the proposal of the law, the general graduation will take place from five subjects, three of which will be mandatory and two will be optional. Candidates who will hold a professional degree will perform exams from four subjects, of which two are mandatory and two are optional. In accordance with the law on higher education, candidates who will hold a vocational degree and successfully pass the fifth course will be able to continue their education in university programmes. Details such as graduation goals, the number and type of subjects, the level of complexity and the method and the form of knowledge assessment, the duration of exams and the cases of exam questions will be set out in exam catalogues and in the examination catalogues in question for general or professional graduation, and will need to be adopted no later than two years before general or vocational training is carried out or by the beginning of the third year. With regard to the implementation of the prom, the proposed law also defines, inter alia, the implementation of the post-graduate procedure, the right of candidates to graduate and the evaluation procedure, and the protection of the rights of candidates, both in general and in professional graduation. A number of additions were adopted on the home committee, most of them on the proposal of the legislative and legal service. However, amendments amending the content of the proposed legislation were also adopted. This amends the articles setting out the composition and designation of the State Commission for Vocational Diploma and the national committees for general and professional graduation, and extends the tasks of the State Examination Centre. In particular, I would like to highlight the following amendments to the text of the bill. 24th Article on the right to graduate: Thus, according to the proposal for a law, candidates who have successfully completed the last year of the secondary education curriculum or have passed the master's examination will now have the right to hold a vocational degree. 28th Article referring to the exam deadlines of the general graduation: In the autumn, the general graduation in addition to the candidates provided for in the present proposal will also be held by candidates who have not completed the year and have successfully completed the examinations and candidates who will first perform the individual examinations of the general course. 39. Article referring to the performance of a professional diploma: The content of the amendment refers to a conditional positive assessment at a professional graduation. A candidate who has reached at least 80 per cent of the points needed for a positive assessment will be evaluated with sufficient evaluation if he has achieved at least a good assessment in each of the other subjects. Article 50, examination of the examination documentation: The payment of costs shall be suspended. And the amendment to Articles 5 and 7 which were adopted in second reading on a proposal from the Commission of the National Communities. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the proposal for a law on graduation. At the same time, we will also support the amendments tabled jointly by the four parliamentary groups, which introduce editorial corrections in the text, to define more precisely the specific rules for the implementation of the Matura in Article 4, the amendment of Article 50, which provides for an overview of the examination documentation, and the completion of the transitional provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 27.01.2003. To remind you how much time parliamentary groups have reserved for the debate: LDS 10 minutes, SDS 20 minutes, SLS 3 minutes, Nova Slovenija 5 minutes, SNS 2 minutes, nationality 2 minutes and government 5 minutes. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LDS Club of Members and the United Nations, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the same motions for this Article. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting forward in the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the same motions. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u18	We have proposed this amendment because more students from other schools are registered in high school. It is therefore necessary to provide them with the appropriate means to fulfil these additional obligations. This would be best regulated by establishing flat-rate costs per candidate who would receive an additional obligation under the budget burden from the school to which the State Examination Centre would impose an additional obligation. We cannot allow these students to wander from school to school, depending on the good will of the leadership, whether they will be able to attend their graduation or not. Perhaps the government has another proposal in this area; if it is better, please, if the Minister declares himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u20	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Something similar to what we did on the work force when we felt that graduation payments were not part of the prom law and that is why we rejected these initiatives in order to adopt such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u22	Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen! 81. Article 81 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education already governs the financing of graduation. And we solve this funding every year, I think, according to school obligations. Of course, additional funding, which would be linked irrespective of the completeness of the departments, irrespective of other obligations within the class, which would simply mean an excessive interference with the existing funding system, and we propose that the regime, as proposed, remain in the above-mentioned law and also in what is before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We should somehow ensure to these students that they do not - whether you would determine then certain schools that accept these students, or whatever, certain students have problems looking for a school where they could do a graduation. It's from practice, not now to make a lobster, I don't know what. It's this problem, not for finance or anything, but for a problem where these students could go without going up and down there and asking for their graduation. Because we know that these are people who may not perform their school duties on a regular basis, then we just give them the opportunity to finish high school somewhere - because you know what the problems are with young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you. We will be particularly concerned with this issue at a fully practical level. As far as the legal standard is concerned, the third paragraph of Article 26 requires schools to do so. So at the level of marriage, there's nothing we can do about it. This means that this is a question that will be dealt with both by our job and by the Department of Education and by the State Audit Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 46 and the amendment of the four groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the same motions. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting the last article into the debate, Article 60, and the amendment of the same motioners. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. The announcement that we will vote today at 1810 hours on the amendments in accordance with the meeting's timetable. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. We will move on to the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on access to information of a public nature at 11.35 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u28	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue to work, moving on to 4. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed Act on Access to Public Meaning Information. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Information Society Dr Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u29	Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a law on access to information of a public nature for a second reading. Compared to the first reading, the proposal has been amended mainly in that part which takes account of the referral of members of the National Assembly from the first reading, namely that the obligation to provide information under the conditions laid down in this law and, of course, other laws is subject to the judicial branch of authority. Accordingly, the law has been amended with regard to the instance of the complaint, which can no longer be a government, but rather a special authority whose status is regulated by law. Otherwise, almost all the parliamentary groups have contributed certain improvements already incorporated into the law, for which I thank everyone. I propose that in the second reading all the amendments proposed by the parliamentary groups, namely the LDS Club, the United List and DeSUS, be adopted. Most of them are completely editorial in nature. They refuse, however, to suggest, all those amendments of New Slovenia - the substantive debate on these amendments was held on the home working body - and in particular, for the law, the removal of the institution of the Ombudsman is controversial. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the member of the Committee, Mrs Majdo Shirca, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The Committee has proposed a set of additional solutions. He combed the bill very carefully, settled doubts in lengthy discussions, and tried to find the best possible solutions. But the doubt was quite something. Most of them stemmed from the consequences of a key change in order to allow access to public information also in the area of the judiciary, as the Minister has already stressed. This was also questioned by the legislative and legal service, which also had concerns about the definition of information of a public nature and to mention only some comments, including on the solutions relating to complaint resolution bodies. The members of the Committee generally agreed that, in terms of the contribution to the exercise of the rule of law and human rights, it was necessary for the obligation to provide information of a public nature to apply to all three branches of government, i.e. to the courts. Thus, we have concluded that the judicial authority must also provide information of a public nature, of course, except for those whose disclosure would be detrimental to judicial proceedings, which is perfectly logical. Several discussions took place on the basis of the definition of what information is of a public nature. The law defines it in its formal, formal appearance, which is also logical, but is not defined by its status. Therefore, no proposal was adopted to supplement Article 3 with archival material, but the possibility of further examination of this proposal was not completely closed. The members of the committee felt that the deadlines for deciding on the applicant's request should be set in real terms, but not too elaborate, so they were reduced from 20 to 8 days, which introduced a few skeptics and inanimate situations and may be that there are still possible adjustments. Most discussions were held on the issue of the most appropriate design of the body to resolve complaints from rejected or unheard parties. Alternatives have been provided, from the possibility of serving the general administrative procedure to the possibility of a special information guardian taking over. The latter would go beyond the competences vested in the law of the substitute Ombudsman. The Committee adopted the proposal to deal with and resolve complaints by a special authority acting as an independent and independent body. He'll be appointed by the National Assembly. This is a solution that follows the recommendation of the Council of Europe. We have also faced the proposal to provide information to the Ombudsman for promotion and advice in this area. This should be established because of distrust of the government or guardians of the law, as some Members and Members have been able to read. Some felt that according to this logic, almost every law should have a guardian’s marriage. Notwithstanding the fact that the guardian has limited enforcement options. Thus, the amendment was adopted that, in order to safeguard the right to access information of a public nature, it empowers a general, non-special Ombudsman - in the end, access to information of a public nature is a constitutional right. Representatives of the Peace Institute appealed to the absence of effective control and incentive mechanisms or to fear this absence. They supported the Special Information Guard, which was not opposed by a representative of the Ombudsman and added that in this case they should be strengthened materially and human resourcesly. However, the fact is that the Institute of Complaints could not take over because it does not have legal powers to do so. The Committee has adopted a set of amendments. Let me mention the most important: the inclusion of courts, the clearer definition of the confidentiality of archival material, as well as partial accessibility, the definition of the deadlines for the appeal procedure, the introduction of the Ombudsman, the definition of the Ministry of Information Society tasks, as a result of, of course, the exclusion proposed at the first stage of the hearing, of the Public Information Access Board. That much in the short run. You can summarize a more extensive report in the Rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 27.1.2003. To remind you again of the time that we have notified the parliamentary groups for the debate: LDS 15 minutes, SDS 5 minutes, Consolidated List 5 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, Nova Slovenija 10 minutes, DeSUS 5 minutes, SNS 5 minutes and government 10 minutes. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LDS House of Members, namely the United Nations and DeSUS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Our Group proposes that paragraph 8(5) be deleted because we do not consider it acceptable for the Authority to refuse access to the data obtained or drawn up because of the administrative procedure. Such a provision reduces the possibility of control over the functioning of public administration, which we believe is crucial to the achievement of the purpose for which the law on access to information of a public nature is actually prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'll be very brief. It seems to me that the amendment proposed by the New Slovenia Group is unacceptable. Why is that? The deletion of point 8 would certainly constitute an obstacle to the administrative procedure. Not to mention that it should be added that those who reject the information after this point should weigh the damage that would have occurred if they had given this information. In short, it seems to me that this amendment will have to be rejected. I am also interested in the government's position on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you. In particular, it must be said that the failure to provide this information under the administrative procedure is not unconditional, provided that such disclosure should be found to be detrimental to its implementation. Or, in other words, it is necessary to perform these harms, or "harmtests", what damage would have been caused if such information had been issued. So there's a security guard in here, and it's not like "a priori" any such information is already information that can't be made available to the public. Therefore, such a proposal is of course unnecessary. However, if it had been adopted, if it had been lined, then this would have been a real obstacle to administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Mrs. Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. We proposed an amendment to Article 21, a different formulation. However, it is essential that we have endeavoured to ensure that the decision is issued on a case-by-case basis in order to ensure greater transparency in the decision-making of the body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. So I have to say that when I read the explanation for this amendment, I have a question. Indeed, it is claimed that this will ensure greater transparency in the decision-making of the Authority, but I am interested in what this greater transparency is. After all, it is written in the text of the law in one way or another that, in the case of a positive decision, an official note is made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u43	For a little while. Such a provision would constitute a greater red tape of work, because people are already getting information if they give it to them, but now they should get information plus a decision for each information they receive - completely unnecessary and useless; if the information is issued, the procedure is not and the matter is closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the LDS House of Members and the United Nations and DeSUS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. I apologize for the debate. [[...]] To the previous Article, to Article 22, Mr Beumann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u45	I apologize for raising my hand too late. It is simply that we want to restore the deadline that was in the original text of the law. It seems to us that the 20-day deadline or 20 working days is quite appropriate for the Authority to decide on the applicant's request.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 23 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. With the amendment of Article 23, with a change of time from 30 days to 15 days, it was our intention to shorten the deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u49	Well, it seems to me that shortening the deadline in this case is unrealistic and unnecessary, since in fact it is not primarily the need to inform the public via the media. In fact, it is necessary to say that the hands are too tense and difficult to realize, which will be particularly detrimental to the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the same Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u51	Well, even in this case, it seems to me that this supplement is unnecessary, since in fact the whole law is aimed at providing information and the active and accommodating role of the Government and the Ministry of Information Society is set out in other articles, in particular, for example, in the second paragraph of Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment, which is also proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. It should be a little longer in this article. In the third paragraph of Article 26, we want it to be said that the appeal is decided by the government within 15 days at the latest. In our Group of Members, we believe that the first option would remain for the government to decide on the complaint, precisely because we believe that this would be much cheaper and no less effective. It seems a little strange to us that the applicant proposed in the first reading that the complaint be decided by the Government and that he came to the second hearing with the Ombudsman. This Commissioner is intended to be a state-level independent body with the status of a public official, with the possibility of two advisers and for a certain period of time appointed experts, for which funds are to be provided in the budget. The proposer assures us that when an independent body decides on the appeal, effective legal protection of constitutional law will be ensured, as would also be recommendation No 9 of the Council of Europe. In doing so, we cannot help but wonder whether the first-reading proposer knew such a recommendation and why he did not know it, whether it was just a blinding maneuver to set up a function to which someone with a name and surname was already waiting. In response to this, I do not think it will be necessary to wait very long, since it would be for the National Assembly to appoint an officer on a proposal from the Government or on a proposal from the President of the Republic. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that we remain in the first option of deciding on a complaint by the government, because it seems cheaper to us and that we do not yet know it in our legal order and that the provisions are still incomplete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I put Article 26 into the debate, but it is undeniable, as Mrs Majda has now debated that this content is related to 26a. and Articles (b) and (c). First, Mr. Minister, then Mr. Beumann. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. My debate will go to Article 26, which concerns the debate of the Member, including on Article 26(b) and (c). Of course, we do not agree with this proposal. We believe that there are important reasons from the first reading to establish an institution called the Ombudsman. It is true that the government proposed in the first reading or in the draft law that it should decide on complaints from the government. However, this draft, this proposal for first reading, did not contain a solution or provision that the judicial branch of power is also responsible, so this law is followed or that it is possible to obtain information from the judicial branch of power. When that happened, however, it became clear that this appeal procedure should be redesigned. Because if the government were to decide, you could say, about the court's issued or unpublished information, it would actually be an independent court. At the same time, however, we must add that there is no person, no name or surname to wait for these functions, will be proposed by the President of the National Assembly and by the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, and will choose the National Assembly. So these fears are unjustifiable. Certainly, the solution, as proposed by the New Slovenia Group, would mean that we are actually, of course, interfering with a very controversial constitutional issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I would like to link my position to what Mr Minister has just said. In fact, when we dealt with this part of the case on the working body, which enables the appeal process or enables it to exercise the right of appeal, there were two options in the debate, or the possibility I proposed, with a special information guardian. Since I think the substantive discussions on the committee have been sufficiently comprehensive, I would like to say, however, that I see this solution as it is. Without the context referred to by colleague Majda Zupan, because even when I proposed to the information guard, I did not have in mind any specific person waiting for work. This seems to me only the compromise solution that has been found consensual under the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I think I can conclude the debate on Article 26 and its related a, b and c. The amendment is proposed here by the New Slovenia Group and, in the case of Article 26a, by the LDS Club together with the United List and DeSUS. Would anyone else like to discuss these articles, otherwise, on the 26th and the a, b and c articles which are substantively related to it, I conclude the debate? Thank you very much. I'm concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the United Nations and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the same motions. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 36a and the amendment of the same motions. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I would only warn that this amendment is also linked to the amendment to Article 26.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u60	That is right, Mrs Zupanova, but the debate is also possible about no one wants to discuss it. [[...]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 40a and the amendment of the parliamentary clubs. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. The announcement that we will vote today at 1810 hours on the amendments in accordance with the meeting's timetable. This concludes this agenda item. Representatives of the government, both ministers, I thank you for your cooperation. At 12:45 a.m., we will move on to the 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill amending the law to remedy the injustices. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 12:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u61	Your Honor! We continue the session and move on to 5. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed bill to amend the guilt law. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the representative of the Magi. Janez Petty Officer. With regard to this law, the Internal Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the proposer of mags. Janez Petty Officer for further explanation of the bill. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Hello, everyone! So, what's the reason I decided to amend this law? These are two key definitions: the establishment of a circle of beneficiaries of this address, i.e. beneficiaries. The second concerns Article 37, with regard to the suspension of this provision. The law on the correction of wrongs has been amended several times so far, in particular Article 2, which defines the circle of beneficiaries and the deadline for the submission of the request and the entry into force. As we have been informed on several occasions, this has also been the case with the Constitutional Court, which extended the deadline for lodging applications, given how difficult it is to obtain documentation for the submission of applications. So first, to determine the circle of relatives after the war-killed persons, which is defined by the current law by the rules on pension and disability insurance. In such a case, such as this law, the provision is hardly applicable since it has been 55 years since then. This means that it is not possible to reconstruct the entitlement to a family pension which is determined at the time of death. Such a provision creates an abundance of complications in the implementation of the law, followed by some formal government interpretation and the Commission's assessment of the correction of the wrongs. Such a provision is unacceptable from a legislative point of view. We have therefore tabled a proposal that does not change the circle of beneficiaries but clearly defines it. We were also reminded of this by the commission for the correction of injustices, which also has a certain function in the process. As you well know, the government has given instructions on how to act. You just can't work like this. Interpretation of the exercise of rights may be given by the national assembly or by the legislator. The second is the suspension of Article 37. Indeed, this provision is anachronism and is offensive to all victims of postwar violence. It reads as follows: "The decision to recognise the status of former political prisoner or after a war-torn person is not the legal basis for erasure of a conviction from criminal records." So these people, despite gaining the status of the victim of post-war violence, are still on record, I can say under the terms, "criminals." So those who were known as victims of totalitarian violence will still be punished. Such an arrangement is unacceptable and offensive. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Janez Drobnič is also the first to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u64	The law on the correction of injustices - as I mentioned - has been amended several times. The key reasons for the lack of law are certainly incomplete solutions, which have been the product of compromises of the previous compositions of the National Assembly, which did not come from true historical facts, but from ideologically entrenched history. Twice, the Constitutional Court intervened in favour of constitutional review initiatives and demanded an extension of the deadline for lodging applications, which was inadvertently closed, so that people who have suffered injustices would not be just injustices, but anti-human acts that are impossible to file claims and so on, write 200,000 tolars for one life. Such an amount is received monthly by revolutionaries for their controversial actions. The Constitutional Court confirmed the initiative on the deadline for investments, as it was aware that people after 12 years of change of the system were still hampered in obtaining documents concerning prison rights and post-war confiscations of property. A particularly eloquent case is the issue of death certificates. These haven't been published yet. Hence, there are still many who are among the dead in the mother books. This is not just a disgruntled historical episode that is supposed to be in charge and unnecessary for most of the population, but it is real to people today, because of the irregularity of the mother book, who is still alive and who is no longer in the process of succession. This is a very specific problem for the living. The proposal for amendments goes in two directions. A clear definition of the beneficiary circle, according to the rules on pension and disability insurance. The current arrangement is unclear and leaves free interpretation. Therefore, the competent Commission has repeatedly pointed out this problem and proposed an arrangement. Obviously, the existing authorities are in line with such a way of regulating that allows decision-making on the basis of discretion and discretion, which gives the grantors a sense of power and goodness and gives the injured a sense of humiliation, submission and gratitude. The number of beneficiaries must be clearly established by law. If we adhere strictly to the current provisions of the law, 1% of those whose parents or spouses have been killed may be compensated. Let's stop fooling around. The deletion of Article 37 of the Law is necessary. Look what the clause says. The decision to recognise the status of a former political prisoner or after a war-torn person is not the legal basis for erasure of a conviction from a criminal record. Therefore, persons who have been political prisoners in the previous regime will still be in criminal records unless they have requested a criminal review. This points to the fact that we are in our country on this issue. These are two key reasons for which the New Slovenia Group considers it necessary to supplement the law in order to be clear and non-discriminatory. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much! The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. We cannot get past the fact in our parliamentary group if we look at the package of war legislation more widely that this war law is practically causing one major discrimination between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, depending on the source of the individual injustice or violence, which-isism it was. We certainly don't want that. At least not to us who are now living here, who, after all, are providing the necessary amount of resources, which the state budget then devotes to such or other compensations. It would be good for this relationship or discriminatory relationship to be completely eliminated. The result is also an additional burden on the state budget. In this context, the draft law extends the range of beneficiaries to amend Article 2, paragraph 4. This certainly eliminates one minor injustice and increases the circle of beneficiaries and thus adds to the need to provide money. We are, in principle, against the fact that the circle of beneficiaries is expanding for one reason at a time. From the fact that our country has already become overburdened by the obligations of the state budget, which is being filled by the active population in the first place, to the obligations to war violence and to the elimination of injustices. Thus, in practice, that country is also running out of the necessary public money that we are obliged to provide in the context of health, social security for the people who are now living and creating. For this reason, we are faced with a great deal of debate as to what to do when we find that the relationship to each of the various torches is established, and thus the different treatment of beneficiaries, whether they are justified or not, what to do in the context, but of course with each of these measures we are additionally burdening the state budget. Our Members will make their own decisions, in their own conscience. I certainly no longer support any law from this title, even if it is already the ninth or tenth or eighth novel to the law on war violence and I do not know which to fix injustices. The fact is, this country, this active population, can no longer do so. We have already overburdened ourselves, so we will then make a decision in our own conscience. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much! The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u68	The law amending the law on the correction of wrongs is undoubtedly an interesting thought. Also interesting material, which is in the Slovenian National Party despite its interestingness, will not be supported. This is because we do not see in this thinking one positive approach, which is possible before me, by the representative of the people's party, in the budgetary difficulties of our country and, if necessary, in directing the financial resources that we see in our party or the delegation of the national party. Stronger needs are now, today and now, especially for people who can be described as a social category, rather than for corrections to the claims of the former regime or "the former reflection of our common country". On the other hand, we must say that this time in our Group we agree with the opinion of the Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has given a negative position from, in particular, the reasons why, of course, the proposal for a law does not relate to a qualified or predetermined number of new beneficiaries, and that the adoption of such a law would also have negative consequences which are unpredictable. Just because of the number, the new number, which is much higher, the beneficiaries. In addition, I must say that the third argument is why we will not support this law, even in the basic source of a different view of the course of history - especially after 1945 or including 1941 - from the proposer. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much! The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, presented by Mr Jaša Zlbec Lukič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u70	In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we decided unanimously to support the decision of the Internal Policy Committee on the amendment of the law after the abolition of the injustices after a thorough and in-depth discussion, so that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We are convinced that the law is by no means suitable for consideration for the following reasons: Firstly, Mr Janez Lukač, the bill-maker, did not attend a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy at all, where he would present his arguments to us about what the adoption of this law is absolutely necessary. Secondly, the draft law does not define the actual material consequences that its adoption would have. Thirdly, the government has tabled its proposal to amend and supplement the law on the correction of injustices. Fourthly, we are convinced that all the dilemmas that occasionally arise in the media with regard to the correct implementation of this law need to be clarified before any amendments to the law on the correction of injustices are made. That is why I myself have proposed to the National Assembly to vote on a recommendation addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the functioning of a commission acting under the law on the correction of injustices and chaired by colleague Janez Lukač on behalf of the Club. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much! We have heard the views of the members of the groups following the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, we will vote today at 18.10 p.m. and thus interrupt this item on the agenda. At 1:00 and 10 minutes, we'll move on to the 6th point of the agenda. This is for consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on specific conditions for the registration of property rights in individual parts of the building in the Land Book. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. And we'll be back to work in ten minutes. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u72	We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LAW ON SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR THE APPLICATION OF OWN RIGHTS IN PARTS OF THE COMPOSITION IN THE COUNTRY BOOK, REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Hinko Jenull, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u73	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Initially, I would like to say briefly that updating the recording of real estate is one of the most important projects that is now taking place in our country. It is a matter of several areas that are complementary and intertwined: land, construction, tax, legal and judicial. In this latter context, the specific area of the land book and the registration of rights in real estate in the land book, including essential property. In view of the complex problem created by the suspension of the updating of real estate records in this area, in 1999 the National Assembly adopted a special Law on the Conditions for the Registration of Property Rights in Certain Parts of Buildings in the Land Book or, more clearly, the Act on the Registration of Floor Property simplifying the registration process for the benefit of the floor owners. This is said by almost all those citizens of Slovenia who have flats on the floor, flats on the floor and thus also ensures the public interest that exists to record as many apartments as possible. Among the changes made by this law are the construction and validation of a floor plan of individual parts of the building, which is a condition for the registration of rights in these individual parts of the building. The law entrusted the drawing up of plans to the geodet or, under certain conditions, to the rights holders themselves on individual parts of the building, i.e. to the floor owners. Against this provision of the law, which I have just mentioned, has been tabled and has been a successful initiative to assess constitutionality. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has found that the provisions of the law restricting the right to make floor plans only to geodesy, and not to other technical experts capable of making such plans, are not in accordance with the Constitution. Especially since this right is granted to the holders of the property on the floor themselves. The same provisions on the possibility that such rights of production of floor plans also include the adoption of the Real Estate Registration Act and the Construction Act in the meantime. In view of this legal situation, the Government has tabled a proposal authorising, in addition to geodets, projectors who have this power under the law governing the construction of buildings. At the same time, I would like to say that the government supports the proposal of the law, as supplemented by the amendment of the parent's working body. We suggest that such a law be passed. Finally, I would like to say that in these days a whole new Law on the Land Book will also be introduced into the procedure, which will also address the issue of registration for those who do not have the necessary documents for essential property. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the member of the Committee, Mrs Majdo Zupan, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At its 30th regular session, on 15 January 2003, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Interior Policy considered a proposal for a law amending the law on special conditions for the registration of property rights in individual parts of the building in a land book submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. In accordance with the rules of procedure, the Committee drew up a report showing that the College of the President of the National Assembly decided, at its 47th regular meeting on 15 November 2002, that the law submitted should be examined in a simplified manner. The report states that the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service of 11.12.2002, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, made a comment that the dictatorship of Article 1 of the legislative proposal should be aligned with the terminology of the new Law on the Construction of Objects. This has been taken into account by the committee in its amendment. Furthermore, it follows from the report that the Committee discussed the draft law and voted on the amendments. Within the prescribed time limit, the amendment was tabled by Mrs Lidija Majnik, who withdrew her amendment at the meeting. Therefore, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 1: "In Article 1, paragraph 1, the text 'geodetic undertaking in accordance with a law governing a geodetic activity or an undertaking producing project documentation in accordance with the law governing the construction of objects' shall be replaced by 'person who fulfils the conditions for the provision of geodetic services laid down by law governing the geodetic activity or the conditions for carrying out the design activity laid down by the law governing the construction of objects'. In the second and third paragraphs, the words ‘the company producing the project documentation’ are replaced by ‘the projector’ by the words ‘the projector’, explaining that the dictatorship of the first paragraph of Article 1 must be aligned with the terminology of the new construction law and be more clearly linked to the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the geodetic activity or design activities laid down by the law. However, the amended first paragraph dictates a change in Article 1(2) and (3) by replacing the words 'the company producing the project documentation' with the word 'projector'. The report shows that the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. By incorporating the adopted amendment into the legislative proposal, the text of the amended proposal was thus set out. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group - does not wish to present. Position of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group - neither. So we're done. Since no amendments have been tabled to the bill, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. Third reading of the bill, this is the decision on the proposal of the law, we will meet in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 6.10 p.m. I hereby end this item of the agenda and also the session until 13.30 p.m., when we move on to the 7th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law supplementing the law on payment transactions, a reduced procedure. Thank you very much to the government, and we will continue in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u77	Your Honor! We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the law on payment transactions, a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, but did not apply for the debate. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. The Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee, is not among us either. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. With the proposed amendment to Article 74 of the Law on Payments, which was adopted in March 2002, the Minister of Finance is empowered by law to charge public payment services to all those for whom payment services are provided under this Act. The Bank of Slovenia is expected to provide payment services to the public sector, direct and indirect budgetary users of state and municipal budgets, following the new system regime for payment services. Since the Bank of Slovenia has not yet decided to do so, it has already been provided by the Systemic Act on Payments that it can transfer these payment services to a new institution, the Public Payments Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. Only this continues work on the payment transport infrastructure available by the paying agency until 31 December 2002. The problem is that the Slovenian Public Payments Authority has submitted public payments to the Ministry of Finance. It acts as a body in its composition and should be financed from the budget from a systemic perspective. The financing of these tasks would thus add to the budget. Therefore, they now propose that these payment services be charged by the administration itself, or by other users of the state budget, as well as by the municipal budget. The payment transport law A can be agreed upon on a substantive basis with this amendment. It is necessary to cover public payment services for those for which these things are also being carried out. We believe, however, that comments on changes to the law could be made by the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, since the provision of payments and services cannot be the activity of the executive branch of government. That's what they say, Treasury. But she's afraid she won't have them because she didn't have them in her basic marriage. The proposed charging of services will therefore be an additional revenue of the state budget, a kind of revenue from its own activities. So far, this revenue has been made available to the Agency for Payments. The correct solution would be to transfer that part of the infrastructure providing public sector payment services from 1.1.2003 to the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia would itself provide direct payment services for so-called public payments, not by transferring them by contract to the executive branch, the Ministry of Finance. It would also be the right solution in the regulation if the provision of such payment services were transferred to a special agency, a legal person under the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, for example. This would also be in line with the European banking directives, as the current solution has nothing to do with the European acquis. The provision of payment services cannot be a government function. The amendments to the proposed law cannot be made with a view to achieving a systematic correct solution. That's why we didn't put them in. It should be said, however, that the proposed amendments deal with the irregular arrangements for the transformation of the tasks of the former paying agency, which is in practice starting with 1.1.2003. The execution of payment transactions cannot be a function of the government, even if it is entrusted to it by the central bank of Slovenia. This solution, of course, is also a step back from the transparency of public finances - which is our constant concern. When will this be resolved - when more beautiful days will be revealed to Kranj? And for now, we're marching in the wrong direction, in a fast procedure. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much! The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u80	I'll be very brief. As we have adopted this Law on Payments and laid down that it is possible to transfer certain services to the Public Payments Agency, this was the subject of discussion when we adopted the law. At that time, we did not ask any other questions about this transfer or this possibility of the public payment agency operating for another. Now, in Article 1, it is just that we lay some groundwork so that we can charge those services to those who are transferred to the Agency. In this regard, we have no comments and we agree with the proposal to amend this law. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much! Furthermore, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented by Mr Saša Peče. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Today we plan to deal with or plan to deal with eight laws on the agenda. This is the only one who does not have an explanation for the proposed law, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, even though it is adopted in a reduced procedure. According to our assessment - and I do not want to repeat after Mr Bajuk, when he has given his position to New Slovenia - we will lose the little transparency that public finances have in our country with the possible adoption of this law. In addition, we will draw the direction that will undoubtedly be contrary to the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia, by dividing the power and the exercise of tasks belonging to individual authorities or institutions. In our parliamentary group, the bill – unless the government representatives sitting here today give concrete reasons, in particular as regards transparency or possible non-transparency of this law at the time of adoption and say that no, this does not hold back, we will not be able to support it. I think that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially when we adopt laws in a different way in terms of, in terms of, sayings, "normal procedure" should not afford that, especially when it comes to financial acts, it does not provide an explanation. So in the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the proposal unless the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives its position and convinces us otherwise. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. As you are aware, there can be no discussion of the articles in the summary procedure, unless there are no amendments to the plenary session. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Bayuk!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. If I understand correctly, I've only got a few minutes left and I'd like to add something else. Please, Madam President, if you'll allow me. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to raise another question as an open question for a magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u85	Dr. Bajuk, this is a fundamental determination at the second reading of the law. The debate on the articles - in this case, it is one article - is not possible because there are no amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u86	If you allow me, it is not a discussion of articles, it is an essential solution or the essence of the solution proposed by the government, and we will certainly accept it again tonight.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u87	I'm sorry, Dr. Bayuk. The debate is [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u88	Well, I'll tell you in the meantime when you turn me off. [[...]] I would like to know in which European country or other country with a market system in the world the payment service for the transport of the public sector is provided by the financial ministry or administrative unit in its composition. That was the question, and I didn't stop him. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The debate, because no amendments have been tabled, I conclude with this second reading of the bill. Third reading of the bill, this is the decision on the proposal of the law, we will meet in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 6.10 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. At 13.45 we will move on to the 8th item, this is the third reading of the proposal for a law providing conditions for the President of the Republic. I thank the representatives of the government. We'll pick it up at 1:45. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u90	Colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on the Provision of Terms for the Functioning of the President of the Republic. The draft law for the third reading was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal if he wishes. Mrs Ksenija Globokar does not wish to give this additional explanation. That is why we will move to a debate by the groups of Members to hear their views. I give the floor to Ivan Kebrich, DeSUS, for the position of the Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I will be very brief because we have tabled two amendments and will explain them in detail in the debate on the amendments. However, we believe that it is right that we get this law, which will resolve matters, that it will not be a dilemma, how it works in a particular case, and that it will be clear what, to whom, at the time of its function and at the time of its termination. We believe that the President of the country is the highest, highest position and therefore deserves special attention, which is essential for lawmaking. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you. I give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Slovenia, Mr Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! Even on this occasion, it would require the Social Democratic Party to make transfers of the part of the National Assembly, if, of course, it were realized, very justified. In the course of the debate on the proposal for a law providing conditions for the presidency and the former President of the country, it would seem more justified for us to participate more actively in a larger number than that number in the House of State. But we hope that this will be achieved sooner or later and that citizens and citizens will also be able to create their own opinion when we talk about important legislation. Indeed, from this point of view, because, of course, such a law places a burden on the budget for years and years to come. The position of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the country is about as stated in the second reading. At the first reading of the law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic, the Group made clear that the proposal for a law is not, in our opinion, suitable for further consideration. Unfortunately, the majority in the National Assembly felt otherwise and adopted the law in December 2002 or sent it to a second stage of consideration. In the Group of Members, we agree that this area is not adequately regulated in the current legislation and that it needs to be regulated. However, it must be regulated so that the former President will enjoy only those benefits that must be comparable to other European countries and, of course, consistent with our material capabilities. It must be made clear here that over 100,000 unemployed, over 30% of the people, so families living on the brink of poverty, cannot agree with the superstandard privileges. Since the first reading, the law has undergone some minor corrections and some changes in ratings, especially the marriage partner. At the same time, we have tabled amendments in our Group of Members to improve and regulate the matter in accordance with the principles of the Social Democratic Party. In doing so, we focused on the status of employees in the Office of the President of the Republic and on the status of the former President of the Republic. If we look at an interview in Mago with Matjaz Nahtigal, the new secretary-general at the office of the President, he himself announced in the interview that they would seek to reduce the number of officials in the office of the President of the Republic. I therefore hope that, on this occasion, the amendment of the Social Democratic Party will also be adopted, which speaks precisely about this and gives an opportunity, as stated in Article 8, that the Secretary-General and his Deputy Officer are employees under the Law on Public Servants. Finally, it must be said here that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the highest legislative body employed today, has two officials. And the Presidential Office, i.e. the Office of the President of the Republic, cannot have any more employees than the National Assembly. This would not be in accordance with the law imposing the work of the national assembly or the President of the Republic. That would not be comparable, and that would actually mean making fun of ourselves, from the legislative body, from our national assembly. The status of the former president has already been quite pronounced and written. Some minor corrections have been made to the provisions of the law in relation to the original content. However, we believe that the former President's ratings are still too high. The provisions relating to these benefits in Article 21 are still quite unclear. What, for example, does the former President have the right to use a service vehicle with a driver only in relation to the task performed by him as former President of the Republic? This would be good for him to appear on the proposer's side. It is understandable to us that the former President will have this, so that he will benefit from this when, say, we are invited to a celebration on the day of statehood. All right, that's right! When we're invited to a celebration, say, abroad or anywhere, yes. Of course, we do not know what it will and how it will benefit, for example, in the month of August, when the holidays and, of course, the remaining months are. I ask everyone where these tasks are defined and are they merely protocol events? Does he have other activities? What does that mean, other activities? Things have to be specified. Unless clearly written, then, of course, everyone interprets it as appropriate. If, of course, the Rules of Procedure itself are interpreted by the Business Commission, as at a certain point in time, some will, of course, be able to interpret this law even more easily. The dispute for us is also access to archives from the time he served as President. Look, it's perfectly logical that this is controversial. From the title of the President of the Commission, the parliamentary commission of inquiry, cannot, for example, be in a second term, even though a Member is, as a member and a former President, unable to reach the archives created in the former term, even though he continues to serve as a member of the national assembly. It is also unacceptable that the former President would still be entitled to a salary of 80% of the current President after one year. Of course, the former President, in our opinion, has a normal pension under the law to enjoy all the rights that go to this address of the former President. When it comes to protocol - I have already spoken about this - when it comes to national celebrations and when it comes to international activity in the role of former President. We do not, of course, know what the right of office premises means, then of advisers, of administrative and technical staff and of service vehicles with drivers, even though for a period of five years, as it is now written in the law. Such a proposal is unacceptable to us. We therefore hope that the ruling coalition will support the opposition's amendments and, with such amendments, allow the adoption of legislation. If that is not the case, the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will not support such a bill. However, I would like to draw attention to the possibility that was pointed out in Mago, under which Mr Janez Markes was signed, "The Imperial Referendum". I hope you've read it more. In fact, what he wrote is that, in fact, in a demagogic way, many times the "sale" of a small person's social welfare, on the other hand, he wants to be put on the budget for life. This cannot be in the context of social problems that are actually present. Therefore, it is not wrong to point out that citizens and citizens can also take such a law in conflict of their own free will through a referendum. I think it is better in this case to listen and vote on some amendments, amendments to the opposition, that it will not happen as the plebiscite decision on the return of investments in telecommunications has happened, when we have also made clear and loud warnings about errors from this place.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be given by counterpart Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! The proposal for a third reading law also reflects some of the basic guidelines set out in the first reading of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats at the time of the law. The debates on the law and the amendments adopted in the second reading undoubtedly ensure that the current President has all the conditions for a successful operation and that, for the current and former President, somewhat less than the ones originally proposed, additional rights are also addressed. I hope that in this way, more in line with the performances of most citizens and citizens, and more consistent with the general level of prosperity and opportunities of the country, as envisaged by the first proposal we have adopted. This was, after all, also a common requirement for discussion by all Members and Members. This new content allows us - so we thought at first reading - to benefit from a certain range of rights or special rights that the President has, rather than harming his function, to increase his responsibility, public reputation and moral authority, since immodestness or wastefulness are certainly not qualities that would be particularly appreciated between Slovenians and Slovenians. That is why we have been surprised in the UK Group in recent days at the public statements on the construction of new protakular buildings, partly linked to the role of the President of the Republic. As far as we know, there have been no official decisions so far, not in the government. We are also not familiar with any starting points or assessments that would support the proposals that have been put forward. We also believe that the solutions in Article 3 of the Law, which are now proposed, do not provide for solutions that have been publicly discussed. Article 3 of the Act provides that the Government, in agreement with the President, shall lay down the premises for the President of the Republic and the protacalyst facilities. The premises for living in this context are not meant to be the special residence of the President, in which he will have not only all the care, the conditions for work and the use of leisure time, but also, if possible, the premises for the reception of foreign statesmen, for personal meetings with them and so on. It is even less thought that foreign states could stay overnight in this residence. I believe that the definition of protacalar objects, as set out in Article 3, even in terms of a word relationship, cannot be considered as defining specific protacalar objects to be used only by the President of the Republic. The state-owned pro-takola facilities have so far been used for the needs of the State, that is, all state authorities, including the President of the Republic. I have not been informed that a large gap in protacular facilities would make it difficult for the State to function successfully and enforce it in international policy. Just the opposite. In the case of the Government's proposal to sell Vila Bled, it was even argued that the maintenance of such a facility was only for pro-tacular obligations in the light of the extent of those obligations which the State had unnecessary, given the maintenance costs as well as irrational. For this reason, I expect that no decision will be taken after short-circuit or without consideration to repeat the story of the acquisition of a protakola aircraft as regards residences and construction and use of protakular facilities. Otherwise, the United List of Social Democrats with some of the amendments tabled will support the bill. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you. Franci Rokavec will give the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Act on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic is necessary, but in a rational form, which would also allow for the current social standard in our country. In the parliamentary group, we will, as a whole, decide on the law on the basis of the decisions of the national assembly, when deciding on the amendments tabled to this law. Let me stress that in the Group of Members we support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party and the Social Democratic Party by Articles 8 and 9, particularly for two reasons which regulate the situation of public servants in substance. Indeed, the fact is - and this is said to mean that the provisions of the law now submitted in the third reading of Articles 8 and 9 are a departure from the law on the system of public servants. It is clear that this Parliament is not capable of consistent reform. A few months after the adoption of the Law on Public Servants, which is supposed to create order in this area, we have made an exception. We are wondering why a consultant in the office of the President of the country would be more valuable than an adviser in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. What's the difference? Indeed, it is quite clear in the Law on Public Servants that the Minister has the right to have his cabinet, as well as the Prime Minister and logically the President of the Republic. There are people in this office who are bound to a mandate. The term of office of the Prime Minister, the Minister, the President of the Republic shall also expire on them. That's why they have a time-bound 20% wage supplement. In the Group of Members, we ask why we should make exceptions. We also consider that it is not appropriate, as in accordance with the Law on Public Servants, for the President to appoint officials under the law on officials, because we consider ourselves a political function because we do not have a presidential system under the Constitution and regulation. Therefore, according to our constitution, the President of the State represents only a country and has the powers laid down in Article 107 of the Constitution, where he must, at the request of the National Assembly, give his opinion on a particular issue. Therefore, the President does not form a policy or propose and implements the country's policy. In the parliamentary group, we will also support DeSUS's proposal for Article 20, where the payment of benefits is more comprehensively regulated, the contributions from the budget. However, we will not support the amendment of DeSUS to Article 21, because we believe that this does not make sense and is simply more populist. On the one hand, the President could waive the right to have a diplomatic passport. All other benefits and rights; protection, office, wages and protocol would still belong to him. It could be arranged in such a way that for all rights, but the National Assembly, as a legislative body, must decide what belongs to the former President, as such. This cannot be a personal decision or an individual’s right. We will also not support the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 21 in the parliamentary group, because we believe that the former President's function is established and meant for the benefit of our country, knowledge, knowledge, in favour of the international recognition of the country and not as the privilege of the current person in such a function. With regard to access to archives as all former officials, the President of the State also binds the professional protection of confidentiality, state or private documents after the termination of his office. In short, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will determine whether we can support or reject the proposed law by deciding on the National Assembly on the amendments tabled. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by counterpart Saša Pece. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u99	Your Honor! We have unitedly given the position of the national party in the first and second readings and will remain so at the current stage of reception. We assess, like many political organisations before us, that it makes sense that it is right and necessary for this matter to be legally defined, especially at the time of the replacement at the Presidential Summit. We would, however, like to point out that we do not think it is right, even more, wrongly, by the proposaler, that in Chapter 2, the Office of the President of the Republic has also confused the matter that we are assessing that it should not be in this law, namely the determination of the status of persons working alongside the President. If we look at it, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not long since adopted a decision on the criteria of complexity and the number of jobs in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, ministers or ministers, ministers without resources and the Secretary-General of the Government for whom a fixed-term working relationship is concluded. It is the same matter or the same substance of the decision as contained in Chapter 2 and where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides for its employees to be subject to the rules applicable to public servants. In our section of the Presidential Law, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia offers us for admission, it speaks otherwise - it speaks of rules for officials. In line with this non-continuation and in order to avoid the non-admission of the law, for which - once again I stress - we assess that it would be appropriate for the National Assembly to adopt it, we have tabled two amendments to the draft law, by article 8 or 9, with a footnote, at the time of adoption of only one. We estimate that the material of the employees or the material of the Office of the President of the Republic should be equivalent to that of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the retention or equivalent of both positions of staff. Well, I would also like to say that, according to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian national party, another matter that we say is possible or impossible, which we claim goes beyond some normal framework of operation, namely in point 6, the termination of the right of the President of the Republic after the end of his office, as regards access to archives. It is true that one thought was expressed why to allow this matter, by the speaker in front of me. I think it was from the human party. However, we personally assess or estimate in the national party that this right is exaggerated. We will support the law in today's proposal. To the extent that they are accepted or will be accepted, one of the amendments that we have tabled will be adopted, i.e. by Articles 8 or 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you! And the position of the youth party. Bogomir the Grandchild, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Reputable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group of young parties, we support the aim of regulating the situation with regard to material and other conditions for the performance of the function, including the rights after the end of the post. However, the question is whether the provisions set out in the draft law, which will be available to the current one and, above all, to the former President, are quite appropriate. Especially on the fact that the President of the Republic is an institution with quite specific characteristics. It's an individual and not a collective body. The President of the State shall be the High Representative of the State at home and outside. He is loved in direct elections, and therefore it is particularly important that he enjoy a high moral and political reputation. Above all, we need a law that will also adequately define these rights and conditions. If we adopt a law with extremely wide benefits, as recorded in this proposal and yet they are, we will put the President of the country's reputation under question, which is not good. The law was amended in the second reading in some articles. Some of the benefits have been deleted. Many others are time-limited, but there are still some such provisions that we cannot agree with. In particular, we do not agree with the provisions of the bill allowing the President of the Republic to employ his cabinet chief and his advisors as officials in state bodies. This, of course, excuses them to all the benefits that they enjoy under the law on civil servants. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia, we will support the amendment, which deletes this possibility, because by allowing such an option we would deny just the adoption of the law on public servants. It is unacceptable that a government which, each year, when adopting a budget, has a tarna on under-income and over-expenditure for salaries and, on the other hand, proposes a law which imposes significantly higher budgetary burdens, as salaries and compensation for officials are much higher than those for public servants. It is also embarrassing that the same government representatives first defend the law on public servants and then participate in the drafting of the presidential law, the consequences of which, when employed at the office of the President of the State, would provide them with an official salary. As soon as we received the proposal for a law, we drew attention to the time-consuming adoption of this law. With such a rush, it cannot be avoided that we are only adopting a law for one person, for us currently the only former president, even though it is a law that concerns all the presidents, including the future. The emphasis on the introduction of the law also casts a bad light on the new president, who introduces additional benefits to all employees in his office by establishing the privileges that the Civil Service Act abolishes. A good half a year ago, the government claimed that the Law on Public Servants made order among many employees in state bodies, now the same government with the proposal of this Act clearly makes an exception. We do not agree with this in the Party of Young Slovenia, so unless these amendments are corrected, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you! We have heard the views of the members of the groups. The draft law will be fully discussed by Members and Members. I give the word "magic" first. Janez Petty Officer. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your word. The bill raised a lot of dust because I think it started with the wrong position - extremely, generously and to a great extent granting privileges - but now it is trying through the national assembly to reduce it. This is an inappropriate approach. We should come from a concept, and in particular we should take two things into account. To look at those countries comparable to our area with which we are similar and with which we shared civilisation and state tradition, such as Austria or Italy. Another thing, another starting point - our social economic opportunities, the potential of this country, the size of the country. Slovenia cannot be measured with the major mayors of European cities. It's even smaller. If we had taken this into account, then we would have placed with the right vat things that would have satisfied the President, the existing one, and the outside of office, after the function performed, or provided the right attitude. The situation has been politicized, and now it's the way it is. The President's status and moral reputation shall primarily be obtained at the time of the exercise of his office, not by the amount of privileges left to him after the exercise of his office. We should be aware of that. I therefore agree with one of the statements made by the youth group of Members that they will be harmed and have to justify their status symbol or status every day in front of the people. Why not stay as we have suggested for the New Slovenia Group? This is close, even more generously, than the President, former President of Austria. Austria is certainly a bigger country and with some tradition. We'd avoid these caverns, these tensions and overheating. This is also how our amendments are directed. Without any regrets about the appropriate content and quantity of respect and reasonableness and taking into account our economic situation in Slovenia. That's what we expected more rationally. I'm afraid that didn't happen. We expect our amendments to be supported. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you! Ivan Kebrich, the next discusser, has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. Before that, I was very brief on behalf of the Group of Members. Now I'm going to explain certain points of view. The first proposal, which we have received, has been substantially amended, since not only from our kinds of Members in the National Assembly, but also from among citizens, it has raised a number of different opinions. On the one hand certain arguments, on the other hand important certain criticisms. However, we believe that the amendments improve the text of the law. In our parliamentary group we will set out amendments that we believe are justified - we have also made two amendments for the third reading, which improve the text and make certain provisions perfectly clear. I think that only textual nightmares are too general, but they have to be concrete. If we represent the view that someone receives compensation, this compensation replaces the salary, then contributions should be paid from such remuneration as from the salary. He can't stay open whether they will or won't. No! No! It must be written that contributions provided by the State from the State budget must also be paid for compensation. On the other hand, we believe that the dignity of the President of the State is something worthy of respect, not only from a certain segment of citizens, but from all citizens. We can be proud that we have our own country and that we have a fair policy at the head of the country, an honest president. Hence, his dignity cannot be undermined by some demeaning of his salary or compensation, either for the one whose office has ceased after a certain period of time or otherwise. In the parliamentary group, we do not think that we are working or adopting a law for the current, former president and, of course, current, but we are adopting a law that should also be in force in the future. In order not to be changed by any government, either by such political options or by other political options. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you. A colleague of Jozef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic has brought the case of urgent legislative matter, which we have brought into shape through public debate, through the adoption of this national council, so that it has been given as much form as it is appropriate. Surely, at this stage, in the third reading, it will be necessary to adopt some additions to reflect the possibilities and needs of the State. The legal matter interferes with the sensitive area of the narrow border between the needs and capabilities of the State and the need and necessity for the position of the President and of the former Presidents to be precisely defined as ensuring the dignity of the Institute of the President of the Republic or of the former Presidents. Just as the former President's position is being regulated, the situation of former heads of government, ministers and, last but not least, Members should also be regulated in the near future. In doing so, I am not referring to material rights, but to the fact that such a person must not be deprived of adequate employment in public institutions or public administration if there is no political colour such as power. What's going on now. The current power to the institutions of high state functions, which are not from its political option, makes it impossible to exist. Such a person who has been a holder of a function or a high state function also has a certain protocol status in certain situations. Simply put, such persons are not subjected to humiliation and discrimination, which is unfortunately happening at the present level of power, as I said. As we stood up for a reality in the opposition, some real measure, when the opposition acted only as a necessary concern to maintain a sense of normality, of reality, has been marked by impatience, even so far by the former President. We have taken care of that alone, and we are also concerned and we are also advocating and proposing such amendments as not to be exaggerated in ensuring these conditions; that the law which provides for the former President's chances would not give him the status of life-long President, which he originally gave, in some way, with a special cabinet, with all the vigils going to the current President. I think that this stage has been exceeded, that progress has been made and that we will get to the end - hopefully - some normal law. However, the apparent impatience towards the former President - I think that this impatience to the former President has shown itself significantly in the ranks of his political companions, in fact, on his reputation as President of the State. They failed to agree on a suitable reputation for the former president, which is damaging to the state. It causes resentment between the authorities and also subtle and behind-the-clock activity. We hear from the culinary authorities what is going on in this important situation, when the necessary unity of at least the holders of all powers should be ensured, at least in this situation, when it comes to the admission to NATO and the European Union, in promoting these two important projects. And you have also caused controversy in this area. It's not the opposition's fault because it wasn't asked anything either. But you haven't been able to agree on some decent things. But it is eternally to blame as it is here in some way trying to blame the opposition for such things. In this given situation, at least for this given situation, there can certainly be no subversion. Look, with what we can do today. I think that it is imperative to eliminate what we have introduced in Article 9 in the previous reading that the members of the Cabinet and the staff are, in fact, state officials, who, by decree of the President of the State, can also be allocated to public administration posts. This must be an implicit introduction of the Presidential system, which is contrary to the Constitution. I don't think such provisions in the law would hold up a constitutional judgment. Other points will also need to be settled. The days on the table are suitable amendments. I hope that, in the end, we will adopt a law that is proportionate to what the state needs and what it is capable of. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to my colleagues who are invited to the debate. Frank Kangler, Janez Janša, mag. Kramberger, France Cuckati, France Rokavac, Branku Kelemini, who I don't see in the food. So I give my word to the next debater, Franz Puksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you! Look, the office of President of the State has so far taken place without any special law. I said earlier on behalf of the Group of Members that certain matters should be settled, but that they should be made clear. However, the law is not written in such a way that it is even more vague in certain positions and can be interpreted in particular. However, I also think it is important to note, on this occasion, that we are also enshrined in the Constitution, in Article 5, that it is necessary to regulate the Slovenians' law without Slovenian citizenship. When I point out this issue, I get answers because most of this and the Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia are covered in many, i.e. in individual laws. The fact is that the performance of the presidency is also covered by many other laws after the exercise of the mandate. It is likely that today the former President is treated the same as the former ministers or Prime Minister or the President of the National Assembly after the expiry of his term of office. That means one year, he's got status, driver, security, and I don't know what else. It would therefore point to a more systematic solution and to propose comprehensive solutions, that is, in a number of areas that I have already talked about before. However, when I spoke about the possibility of the imperial referendum, I also had in mind a public opinion poll on the Presidential privileges that had been made in Youth. In fact, do you agree that the previous president would receive another two years' salary? 71% said no. After the term of office, should he still have an office? 58% responded with no. Should he have an adviser after the end of his term of office? 76.5 percent responded with no. Should he have administrative technical staff? Here, too, 74.8% responded with no. Personal security? Seventy-five percent off. Protecting the facility he's staying in? 72.5% with no. Should he have a work car and a driver? Surprisingly - 82.2% responded with no. It is not surprising to me that it is not surprising for those who are talking to the people of the country in areas where unemployment is, of course, large, where quality of life is low. It is surprising, however, for those, and in the teaching of the government, which has just proposed such a law that, of course, it would be the same as it is, and if it went without amendments - as I have already said - through, it would be possible to have some decision-making between citizens and citizens themselves. So there are enough arguments for that, and of course enough not to make it appear that we now have a President over the President in the country. Then we could have the President, the President, etc. In short, things need to be settled. However, as far as these material matters are concerned, within the scope of capacity and comparability. It is not acceptable, however, as is now stated in the bill. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much! Jojo Tanko's not even here. Paul Rupar has the floor as the next discusser. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! When this law was passed, it was literally shocking. All that is stated here, as a privilege to the current President of the State or to the former President of the State, I find it a literal mockery to all those who do not even have the basic living conditions for normal life in this country, let alone think about anything else. Today he was already from a colleague of the Runka mentioned a protocol facility on Brdo. It was very beautifully shown. I liked the fact that the public started to inform on time with this project. I was surprised, however, that not a single comment had gone in the direction of a presentation of the construction of the paediatric clinic, the oncology institute and other "breedings", which we have in Slovenia and where we have patients. And we - ladies and gentlemen - are here messing with taxpayers' money, which palaces and which protocol facilities - for God's sake, we are going to build these privileged, eternally privileged people. I personally re-evaluate that this is a eloquence for such a country, and of course I would agree with that if we had all those barns that we have in Ljubljana, also called hospitals, arranged and adequately equipped for patients. I'm telling you right now, I'm not even gonna be under any other heading for this marriage. Nor is it because he ridicules everyone for how many times the former President of the State or the President, who terminates his office, has the privilege of life. Who else enjoys such privileges in Europe other than dictators who are no longer such? I would like to mention that I am in favour of having a pension, I am in favour of having those basic conditions that go to it, as is the case with Europe, also with theirs or other former presidents. However, I cannot agree with what the former President needs his office in Slovenia and a whole bunch of people with a car and everyone who doesn't need one in Europe. And not just in Europe, so I'm going to lean on maybe Iraq's greatest enemies right now, DeSUS, the United List and some LDS, Americans. I'm sorry, but when President Clinton left his office, where he got his office - nowhere - he bought it himself. He bought it in New York, but he bought it with his money. If he wants to work, if he wants to do his own - I don't know - any activity, he bought it himself in America. I'll keep telling you. Reagan was a film player before he became president of the state. When he was finished, he was redefined or directed against Hollywood. I agree. If they were actors before, they should be actors later. That makes sense. I'll keep going. Carter planted peanuts before he could function. When he stopped being president, he took them out of the country again. What's going on with us? I understand that all these great officials are practically without any activity, because from birth to death there are virtually some presidents, some officials. Or in a former communist country or now. I believe they don't know what to do, except what kind of malaria I am and who I am. But at the end of the day, I don't understand that what they've learned would usually - excuse me - continue to spit in the microphone after the office of president of the country. However, let everyone think about retiring and giving peace to this country, just as all other pensioners must give peace, just as all those who have ceased their term of office must. Unless, of course, it's a little bit more of a government-oriented issue, where ex-deceased mayors then become different secretaries overnight. But if they're not really in a good place and they're crazy, they're looking for a job in some good economic society. I don't agree with that on my own. So let us be equal to all citizens. Take a closer look at those who really need help. Those who, during these endlessly long functions of this privilege and the benefits of it, enjoy them and, for God's sake, give peace to this country after their duties. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you! This was a full debate on the law. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 27.1.2003. I am putting Article 8 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 8. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9, where we have the amendments of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Article 9? My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u113	To discuss these articles, and of course later, when there will be a time to vote, I don't really know if it makes any sense to explain. Although in the amendment, we have written down that the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of paragraph 9 shall be deleted. A member. This is for the reasons already stated in the position of the Group of Members. In fact, it is unacceptable for staff to be officers in the office of the President. But it is enough, as stated in Article 8, that the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary are officers. Just why is he going? If they are officials, of course they are others, i.e. after the expiry of the mandate for some other privileges. But if they're not, of course they're not. I have already warned that at this point he is in the National Assembly - instead of the officials there are two, this is the Secretary-General and the Head of the Legislative Legal Service. After the end, only the Secretary of the National Assembly remains. All others, heads of parliamentary groups, etc., are civil servants. If the government has proposed a law on civil servants, the ruling coalition has also accepted it, then what are the reasons why you are the first to start violating them? You're proposing a law that's not in line with the Civil Service Act. If, of course, this is because every matter is interpreted by the government, by power, by power, not by argument, then of course we understand. But from the point of view of the argument, that's not acceptable. I hope that Members and Members, when we vote on this, will support our amendment to delete paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 for those reasons. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this article? Mr. Lavrinc, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm speaking for myself right now. But I can say that the Group of Members will not support the amendment by 8, not the amendment to Article 9. Why? Because the first article of the Act on Officials in State Authorities still applies, which explicitly states who they are, i.e., who they are. Among them, he also mentions the Secretary-General of the Republic. Since the Law on Public Servants was passed last year, I will read the next diction, so that there will be no mistake, it has obviously been overlooked by many. I am even afraid that the Legislative Service of this National Assembly: "Before the enactment of the law which will regulate the material and other conditions for the work of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, by means of his act, shall determine the organisation of the Office, appoint the Secretary-General of the Office and others - I stress - other officials in the Office and pay, compensation and remuneration to them." So, the first is that last year, when we passed the Law on Public Servants, the legislator realized that there were several other officials there besides the Secretary-General, and, of course, until then, he would have maintained the situation as soon as we reached this law. If we don't get to this marriage, the situation is next. These will be exempted from the public sector wage system. For if we enter them into the law, and, of course, by law we receive them, then they will be subject to the law on the system of wages. This says so - I will only read the table: "The functionaries in other state authorities and their lowest point, it is said, the lowest class, stop at number 37." I would also like to recall the provision that mentions that the National Assembly will, by decree, set salaries for officials of all kinds, of course. However, the highest position or class of officials would be 55th grade, which means that, no doubt, they come under the highest grade and we've already knocked them out of the 55th grade or 55th grade. This would mean, I will say, higher expenditure on the budget and, of course, therefore unwise behaviour. We've known about these provisions all along. We've read them, too. We cannot support similar amendments made by the SNS and the SLS. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you. Mag. A petty man has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u117	I would like to comment and also replicate to my fellow Member. It is precisely because the Law on Public Servants has come into force under such or other legality, with such provisions, therefore, that it leaves this law to regulate - that is, the regulation that we are now introducing with these amendments and is an equation. If we decide in this way, it's perfectly consistent, it's sovereign. After some careful consideration, that makes sense. Then there is no need to look at the laws on civil servants or to become identical. As far as we are concerned, we have determined that it should be done, that the appointment, the award and all that is involved should be resolved in accordance with the principle of public servants. I don't see any trouble going on here. This, however, is another contribution to the compliance and regulation of this legislation. Why would we have a different system? I don't know where the reasons are. I would ask the proponents or the proponent why he is justifying such a way of regulating outside the system. I'm more interested in that. Because it is up to us to arrange for the President of the Republic to be worthy and worthy of those who will perform such a function and will have some protection of the rights that go to them under the law on public servants. That's the question now. Not the kind of ruckus you're having. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you. Once again, Comrade Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u119	That'll be a replica. If my colleague, Petty Officer, understood me in such a way that I say that it is not possible to arrange otherwise with this regulation that we are now adopting, as it was written there, then he misunderstood me. Under the general rule of law, "lex posterior derogat lex prior", which means a later rule derogating from the previous one. However, when we adopted the whole system of public servants, public sector wages, state administrations, inspection supervision, agency law - then we carefully weighed. We have also done this with the help of your colleagues, i.e. colleagues from your party on the committee and here in plenary. So I'm going to say that all these things have been studied. That's why I don't understand what you're saying. That's why we're going to undermine this system. On the contrary. We are maintaining the system we adopted last year, in June.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you. Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u121	What Mr Lavrinc explains would be understood. But I warned you the last time, and I didn't get a proper interpretation. Does this third paragraph, which reads as follows: 'The President may appoint the Chief of Staff and the Adviser of the President of the Republic to the position of an official in the State authorities in accordance with the law', not as such - I do not say that they have so imagined, but they will interpret it - so that he can appoint officials to other state bodies as well? That's what it says. If he's not happy with them, with their work in the cabinet to try to get rid of him, he'll appoint him as an official in the state authorities, what I know, somewhere in another state body. And by that, I think the Constitution is broken. He gives him powers that he does not have under the Constitution because there is no presidential system so he can appoint officials in other state bodies. And this doctrine is completely unclear and leaves open doubts and ambiguities as to the legality and constitutionality of this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this article? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 9 and the two amendments to this Article. We are moving on to Article 20 and the amendment to this Article of the DeSUS Group. My friend Ivan Kebrich has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I'm sure you're particularly interested in this, but I would like to draw your attention to one detail, because the devil is in detail. Those who have read the 20th article, paragraph 4, and who have read our amendment will say, because there is no difference. Where is he? In fact, the difference is important. The importance is that, in Article 4, paragraph 20, the State budget shall be simplified to provide funds for the second paragraph. What about the first paragraph? In the first paragraph, however, we are talking about certain things that I mentioned earlier, the compensation for that part of his salary if he does not earn that much if he becomes employed or will receive this compensation. But it is not said anywhere that contributions will be paid. Whether we are making a difference between - forgive - the former President of the country in this case, so that contributions will not be required from the state budget. It can't be. Therefore, this amendment is still well founded, which clearly defines what and how the source is paid for. I hope that you will explain this detail to your fellow Members and colleagues that they will understand because they may or may not listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word with Article 20 and the amendment? Since no, I also conclude the debate on Article 20 and open the debate on Article 21 and the three amendments tabled in this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the New Slovenia, under 2 amendments LDS and under 3 amendments DeSUS. Who wants a word? Comrade Petty Officer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u125	Taking a close look at paragraph 6 of this article would be sufficient for a normal thinker. What's he saying? "The President who has resigned shall have, in connection with the conduct of protocol events at home or abroad, the right of life to support the service of the Protocol or the representation of the Republic of Slovenia abroad." In short, it has everything at its disposal that is necessary to carry out protocol statuses and I do not know any other obligations. We also leave a diplomatic passport and something else that makes sense to carry out this function. In short, I tell you everything else - it does not belong to this law and is guaranteed by this paragraph, as far as this area is concerned - to serve after the expiry of the mandate - and thus to approach some of the norms that we have in the neighbourhood in large countries. He's doing well in Italy as a senator. We will not now demand that the ex-president become a member, or that he has a mandate in our national world, perform this function, and that he receive monthly prizes like the rest of the councils, but nothing else, because the state council is not in such a position, but one comparable. Why would we lose our heads with some original solutions, with such original solutions as we did or done in the last 40 years? And then we realized it was nothing. After all, Slovenia is not a federal state, a former federal state such as Germany or anything like that. These are the reasons. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Comrade France Tsukati!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Article 21 states the ratings, or it limits them to 5 years compared to previous texts. I'm talking about ratings, not needs. For in a normal democratic society, with a departure from office, or with the discharge or termination of a mandate, there are no longer any official obligations and duties. No need, such a former official - I'll say court and a whole bunch of courtmen, etc. I don't know what kind of professional services. I think that, as the survey quoted by my colleague Pukšič showed, it is saying that Slovenians are not inclined to think that way. By the way, the time of the Counts is over. The Hazburgans have always treated us as foreigners. We've never accepted Carajourettes for our own. The postwar Marshalliat system, and I don't know what functions that are repeated or cloning, continue indefinitely. We Slovenians do not accept this as an indigenous plot of Slovenians very, in fact, in our own being, we tend to accept such a service - let it be either the Prime Minister or the President of the State or the Member - a little more modest, in the sense of - "before the election of semblances an ordinary man and after the election I am once again one of many". Let me give you an example of German Chancellor Gerhard Schröeder, who you know has a 40m apartment. But that's not essential. It is essential that his private life, which is also then private when he ceases to function, is usually modest. He doesn't need escorts and professional support. Because, if and if it will announce Article 21 of the Law, then for 5 years this function will somehow be stimulated to see that it is still a function. As a function that is competitive with the current president, who owns some representative, larger functions, some completely different functions than any person who has a high-quality, up-to-date and state-of-the-art end. I think that whoever has done much in their work - as I said - is going to be supported by their actions in maintaining the authority they have. There is no need for the state to somehow build on this status, an artificial status, or even a state that interferes with the functioning of the country. I think that Slovenia is not a suitable place for such solutions. It would certainly be good to consider and support the amendment of New Slovenia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you. Ivan Kebrich and Maximilian Lavrinz signed up in the order.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. Again, Your Honor! I am taking the floor with the amendment tabled by the DeSUS Group in its 21st Article. You've got it under number two. It's the next one. We are not for restraints, but the Priors "force someone to have a diplomatic passport for life" seem inappropriate to me. That is why we have set a better definition: if only the former President has the right, if he wants to take advantage of it, he will take advantage of it. If he doesn't want to, let's say, after a certain period or he won't feel able to travel like that anymore, he won't take advantage of diplomatic passport rights anymore. We believe that this is very true, that this is fair and that the President himself will decide when and when he will want to have a diplomatic passport. It's only right that we let him do that. So I ask you and your colleagues to support this amendment of ours, which I have further explained. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you! Maximilian Lavrinz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much! This is where I listen to fairy tales. I'd say it's a choir of fairy tales. How they're arranged here, how they're arranged there. I'm telling you, when we had sex -- let me put it this way -- we had eight systems studied how different it was. For example - I will say - we have also taken comparable countries such as Ireland, Portugal. For example, the Portuguese give the President a gun after he is no longer president so that he can defend himself. Judge if that's okay. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to ask him to stop this shouting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u132	Please let everyone discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u133	And he takes it away from my speech because I was disturbed. You're talking about different systems. You're talking about the countesses and all that nonsense. We have estimated that someone who has been in such a position for five years can still be useful for the country, of course, if he so wishes. That's why everything except the passport, which was written after the accident, is not a right, but that it can be written as a right. What kind of moral qualities do you think the Slovenians elect people to be presidents of the country? They'll pick everything up and do nothing. No! No! And I think whoever works will take those rights out of this marriage. That's what we've been giving him for five years. So, please! If most of the Slovenians have a right to vote, then you're taking it back to him. Don't talk such nonsense, actually! And that's why it's to think that it's to support, for example, the DeSUS amendment, because then we put it all together. Of course, it is also to support our amendment and the correction of the first paragraph, where we wrote down as we should actually go. First, there is talk of what is going on after that term and then there is talk of protection in particular. Why security, and in what way? I would, of course, ask that it be understood that security cannot be provided that the President does not approve of it. The point is, if anyone wanted to, it would eventually be in such a way that they could even follow. So I think things are well-prepared, especially after we accept these amendments. I suggest we don't lose words about this. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Two more debaters, Franz Pukšič and then Branko Kelemina. My friend Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Well, yeah. It's okay if there's a debate. Because if it's a debate, then there's something to be said if it's heard and heard. Now, for the first time, I have heard that for Chapter 6, the rights of the President of the Republic after the end of our post, we will also have elections. This means that we will go to the elections to elect the rights of the President of the Republic after we leave office. So after the end of the post - this, well, so far these elections have not been held, and the electorates and voters have not yet said to whom they will give this address after the resignation of the President of the Republic. It is not possible for a person to put all this together, not as it is for those who have worked so desperately in this law and have studied so many systems, but who have written so many privileges that these material privileges are actually raised and forged in the sky of the former President. There's no need. That's what I've been alerting you to, not just me, but that's what the poll I read. Slovenian journalists point to this. This is pointed out by Slovenians and Slovenians when we talk to them. Members and Members of the ruling coalition also point to what is important. However, of course, in the hallways, where they tell you that it is the way it is, even though they personally disagree. But I believe that in one where it's closed to the public, which of these paragraphs is also deleted. Or if there had been a secret vote on a number of these paragraphs, we would not have voted. I think that's quite enough. And that's what I've been talking about all along. I warn you as Dr. Gantar has been warned since 1997. And it didn't happen. It could have been six years ago that there was a referendum, that people said what was right and what was wrong. That's what we're warning here. I think I've had enough of that sixth paragraph, which my colleague Drobnic was also talking about. Although it would be right to state clearly in the explanatory statement what the right to the power and services of the Protocol or the representation of the Republic of Slovenia abroad means, that is, from a material point of view. Of course, amendments to this Article and to Article 9 tabled by the Social Democrats will be key to whether we support or not. And, of course, the key - believe me - is also for citizens and citizens who will be able to make decisions, or perhaps Members about whether this law will unfortunately have to be called a referendum. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much! Even Branko Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, it's an unappreciative matter. Obviously, whatever a person says will not actually fall on either infertile or fertile soil, probably. But when we talk about these ratings or privileges, or whatever we call them former presidents, we must find that certain things are certainly necessary and that the status of the former President is certainly such that it is necessary to enable him or to give him some ratings that would come from this function. In particular, I imagine, perhaps thinking differently than others, that the basic thing that a former president needs to be given is that you give him some respect for his function, that he did it fairly and fairly, that you give him some material basis, that his life is not dependent, or that his life is provided in some way, if, say, he can't do anything else, he can at least culturally and normally survive his life, and maybe some other little bit of it. Then it all has to end. That's my opinion. That is why I support this amendment by the New Slovenia parties. In fact, we can write into the law what we want or if I say otherwise, let's say that if a former president did very well -- now I'm distancing myself, I don't want to talk about who the former president is, who is now and who is now, and so on, I'm saying in general that no one would think that I want to go after an individual right now -- no, we're adopting a law for presidents. I don't want to talk about who he was and who he is now. That's why I'm getting away from this. But let's say that if some president has done well and has some life energy, so good for the citizens and so on, and I want to continue to do something and create it, there is no regulation, there is no administrative regulation with which we will limit it so that he will not be able to continue working. There's no regulation! Otherwise, we can give him things at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of people, but I don't think that's necessary. We're not gonna stop a man like that with a working habit. This man will certainly, if he wants to, create everything we wrote in here to be on someone else's account, at the expense of taxpayers. I firmly believe that someone or a political option or anyone, unless he engages himself, will allow him some ideal conditions so that he can continue to create and work if he wants to. Why the taxpayers? I'm talking about the imaginary former president. But if he was a bad president, he doesn't deserve us to give him everything we're offering him here. Even though he can take it or not take it - at least it says he has the right. I have heard somewhere that, say, former President Kučan does not want this at all and is not seeking any privileges. I firmly believe that according to his abilities and friends, which he has all over Slovenia and everywhere, he will do so without our help and without the taxpayer's money. I'm pretty sure of that. Why make some ratings and so forth to someone who doesn't even want them, and the second time at the expense of taxpayers? But if you want to talk about maybe some ratings, privileges to the existing president and so on, but if you talk about the former president, I would say that we should give him something more, because it is likely that, given that we have a new president who won't have a lot of things to do to him, he won't do what he'll have to do after the constitution, and, of course, the former president did things that he shouldn't do after the constitution, but he wanted to do because he wanted to be more productive and he was interested in electricity and so on. He was interested in everything, and this is probably not going to be - what he has in the constitution - then let's give the former President even more rights if we go to write a law to someone on the skin. More right to be able to work normally to help the existing President, because he will not be able to do his job anyway. That's my opinion. I firmly believe that such capable people as the presidents of the countries or small Slovenia, whatever it is, will be as able to arrange these things themselves in the best way. It's a shame that we provoke people, that we're "stressing" here about whether or not we'd give a right. I have told you what rights are necessary and which must be given, to show respect for such people, to ensure material existence, and to leave everything else to people, to continue to create as they have been used to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you. And Mrs. Maja Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. In short, we would have stopped in the execution of our colleague Lavrinz when he asked himself, but Slovenians do not like presidents with questionable moral qualities, who would have picked up everything after they had ceased their post. I think we really like Slovenians, or we want to elect people, our presidents, who are noble, so I think that's too little: moral quality. It reminds me of the moral-political quality. The president, who is a noble man who loves his people, who wants to do something for them after he has ceased his duties, will be able to do so in his own home office. And we don't have to give him and burden the taxpayers with the law to make his office and his professional associates available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you, too. I think we've exhausted our desire to discuss this. In accordance with our work plan today, at 6:10 p.m., we will vote on these issues. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and we've earned a break until 3:55 p.m. when we go to 9 p.m. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u141	We're moving to nine. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON LIMITING THE USE OF ALCOHOL. Following the third consideration of that bill at the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, the legislature of the National Assembly and the Government found that the law was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted. In this regard, the government has prepared the harmonisation amendments you have received. I welcome the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, and I also give him my word if he wants to talk about the harmonisation amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u142	Mr President! Dear Members and Members! Before you are the four harmonisation amendments created by the amendments tabled during the second reading of this law. Allow me to present them in a very formal manner, in a text similar to yours. Article 7 of the Act requires coordination with Article 15, namely the deletion of the words 'persons under the age of 18'. Article 9 is, in fact, a typical editorial correction. For the first time, a broader explanation of what "guest" means in the broad meaning of the word has disappeared as a result of the amendments in Article 7 and is now appearing for the first time in Article 9 in order to explain in the later text the term only "guest" always. In Article 15, in order to comply with the second paragraph of Article 7, we deleted the words 'drinks added to them by alcoholic beverages'. Article 16 states that this is an article governing sanctions, because of the amendments, but this was essentially an amendment which introduced under the prohibition of alcohol-added drinks, which required the addition of this text in the relevant articles sanctioning this provision "which are added to them by alcoholic beverages". Let me get this over with. The legal position of our service is that this is a typical harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Minister for your explanation. The harmonisation amendments were also considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as the mother labour force. I ask the President, Mr Brenčič, if he wishes to speak and comment briefly on the text? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. For a little while. Of course, it was not in any way bound by the rules of procedure to have a discussion and perhaps a discussion on the harmonisation amendments, but it was self-initiative, given that, as a result, or as a consequence, some of the disagreements that occurred at the December meeting related to the harmonisation amendments were found to have occurred through the procedure also in the preparation of the text of the amended law from the second reading. That is why, of course, given that if the harmonisation amendments on the plenary were to be rejected, we should be obliged to define ourselves until the new harmonisation amendments, prepare the harmonisation amendments or otherwise submit a decision to the plenary. We have therefore taken note of the actual situation that has been present through the procedure and, as such amendments, have also been recognized as appropriate and necessary both for the harmonisation of the law - on a case-by-case basis and for the purpose of the law. The mother's working body also unanimously supports the proposal for harmonisation amendments and has therefore proposed to be confirmed by the plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. We are also opening the debate on the harmonisation amendments between Members and Members of Parliament who have declared their debate. I would like to warn you about time: LDS 5 minutes, SDS 30 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, NSI 5 minutes and SMS 3 minutes. Does anyone want to discuss the harmonisation amendments of these parliamentary groups? Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you very much. As has already been said today, the harmonisation amendments have been prepared because due to the amendments adopted, the individual provisions of the bill have become inconsistent among themselves. In the case of this law, it is more than clear that, due to the steps taken in this Act during the second hearing, and in particular to the third reading, and in particular to the amendment adopted to Article 15, we do not have consistent solutions or we face different articles. More than that, we do not follow the key instincts that we have pursued during the examination of this law. However, its main intention was, or else, to prevent, within the scope of the possibility, access to the consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors, or to limit reasonably excessively, harmful consumption of alcoholic beverages for a healthy society. In this respect, it is appropriate to support the amendments and thus enable the law to be brought to life in practice, while also eliminating, as has already been said, the current non-compliance between articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you. Comrade Kelemin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Are we now talking about all the amendments or just the first to Article 7?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u149	About the harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u150	All of them, yeah. Well, if we look at the harmonisation amendment to Article 7, then we can find that this harmonisation amendment is intended to delete the text of "persons under the age of 18". But then I wonder what this first paragraph of Article 7 or in the third paragraph is, sorry, in the third paragraph, the words "under 18" - yes, okay, no problem, I mixed up something, I apologize. Well, it would only mean that the first paragraph of this Article, as we speak, is very strange. In fact, look, this first paragraph actually says that a 15-, 17-year-old kid can't actually go to a store and buy for his mother, say, two deciliters of rum that my mother will need for baking doughnuts, say, he just won't be allowed. And even though it's in the same house, say, underneath the store, this child or family lives in this same house, let's just say I don't walk across the street, so I don't get hurt, or in the same house, I don't want to go looking for two deciliters of rum to bake doughnuts. So this seems a very strange thing to me, let's just say that a seven-year-old would be allowed to do it, which is certainly not going to drink it, but seven-year-olds are extremely smart, independent, and so on and so forth, and they also hope to go to the store and also how to buy it if a mother writes on a note what to bring. In short, it doesn't make sense that there can't be any bigger. Then, it will be a little difficult to realize this third paragraph of Article 7, "the sale of alcoholic beverages and beverages added to them by alcoholic beverages or drinks from automatic self-service devices is prohibited". That's a very strange thing, as far as I'm concerned. Okay, now, if you've decided not to have alcoholic beverages in machines or self-service devices, I agree with that. Then it is somehow impossible to access under the age of 18 or anyone who would like to have an alcoholic drink at any time. Now, if you'll excuse me for not having these amendments in my hand, I'd give my colleague a word, and then I'll keep calling if I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you very much again for your word. Well, certainly, we in the parliamentary group and personally had at the starting point when all the harmonisation amendments were tabled at the December session, concerns only about entry with the harmonisation amendment in Article 7. This is also because, in fact, this is a bit of a substantive entry into the law in relation to the text contained in the third paragraph of Article 7. This, of course, led me to believe that this is not a completely clean business solution if we really want to take the rules of procedure literally. However, in view of the content or consistency of the articles, it should be said that, after a so-called third reading, it is evident that Article 7 is inconsistent or inconsistent with Articles 15 and 16, which lays down or defines and lays down criminal provisions, and as such it is certainly necessary to harmonise. Not only is the fact that it is not in line with the two articles, but with such a written text, the law also loses its basic purpose or concept with this third paragraph of Article 7. That is why we considered, after we had, of course, faced with the fact that it was evident that there had been a technical error, which was recorded in the writing of the amended draft law for second reading, and that it had been overlooked by both the Member and the Applicant, in such a context, that it was understood at least for me - the Rules of Procedure or the fifth paragraph of Article 140, that it was necessary to make this harmonisation. On the contrary, of course, it is only a procedure for us to return to our mother’s working body today. The mother's working body proposes that it be concluded that the law is not appropriate, the law is rejected and the proposer will pass a new law with such a text as we now want to achieve with the harmonisation amendment. That is why we will fully support the harmonisation amendments, the Group of Members. However, it is necessary to say this: today we also had a business committee on this subject, so that when the Rules of Procedure change in any way, it would be good to see the content of Article 140, paragraph 5, slightly more relevant and that such dilemmas would be literally imposed or eliminated by the harmonisation amendments. We will support the amendment and I think it is necessary that the spoils of these amendments be supported today and we adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you. More, mate Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Look, even with Article 9, I would like to comment on this, this amendment that is before us. And I would ask Mr Kebra - because he has a lot of ideas, he will certainly know how to answer this question - where is there a school in Slovenia now, on the basis of which our students or these guests will learn to guess who will take it, give it to a drink, say, to a third party? Where is this school now - I want to know. I have a few colleagues, friends I know from those who own such restaurants, to those who work there, and I don't know where to send them to school, so they can learn to recognize people who are supposed to be potential alcoholics to someone else, etc. These assumptions are also found in some other articles. I'd like to ask you politely if you could tell me where this school is to determine the alleged cause, etc. In short, I think this is a matter of such inconsequentialities that it will not be possible to implement them in practice. I'm asking you nicely, why do you do this and force someone, a poor guy who's fighting for everyday bread poor, to find out if someone's supposed to want to share a drink with someone else, or maybe he's not drunk, etc. Let him see it now! Where are these schools, Tom? Well, that's nonsense. If you can't write otherwise, then you'd rather not write the law, please. This law is one of those laws - I have already said, which otherwise has good elements in it, and it is right that we have it, even some things should be regulated, but it has so much nonsense that you have collected from the entire European regime of all countries that have these things in any way regulated. The worst things you've taken out, in my opinion, are the worst. And that's what you're going to be fighting against drinking alcohol -- excessive drinking, sorry. Because if we want to fight alcohol, then we have to ban production. Now, I don't know, I'm up to it, I'm up to speed to ban the production of all alcoholic beverages in Slovenia, but I don't know if the Slovenian company is ready, but the state of Slovenia is ready for it, Dr. Keber. Probably not, we are of course talking about cultural drinking of all drinks, including alcoholic drinks - such and different ones. But overindulgence, as you have written here, in this marriage, will not save; perhaps little, but much, I fear we will even increase. In short, I would ask you for an explanation if you could politely - I admit that I am cynical, but still, it is such an inconvenient thing that I fear how we will make it happen in practice. That's all this is about. I'm sorry. Please respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u155	Anyone else want a word? Minister, would you like a word for this explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u156	So I can answer, although we have already discussed this and this is not a question of the harmonisation amendment today. A person who shows obvious signs of drunkenness, of course, by continuing to drink harms his own health. We've got cases of alcohol overdose. Obvious ingenuity is, of course, the substantive ingenuity recognized by a fellow citizen if he did not recognize it, but there was no or no obvious ingenuity. This will be the case, or the inspector will do so, if he detects this violation, he will assess it under the circumstances. Undoubtedly, however, it is an attempt or a desire to continue offering alcohol to people who are actually already on the verge of infirmity, who, after leaving the inn, lie in the cold in the parks and so on. In short, this sentence, this commitment is a personal assessment of each individual and is linked to the fact that every citizen, I hope to say, from childhood on, regrettably because drinking is such a mass phenomenon, from childhood on, he knows what an obvious sign of drunkenness is from alcohol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you. My friend Winning the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't think there's any point in losing words about the harmonisation amendments, either, in fact, nor does it make sense to lose words about this law at all. The law is a prohibition that will bring much more damage to Slovenia than it should have taken from Slovenia. He's going to bring damage mainly in what's called defamation. The ban on the pouring of alcoholic beverages will increase the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Production of "black" produced alcohol and alcoholic beverages will increase with the ban. This way the state will get less into the cash register, because more will go for sale "on the side". In short, we have already had prohibition in recent history in the United States, and it has been seen where it has led - to the rise of crime, alcoholism has not been eradicated, even more so, they have to return normal measures, such as they are in fact in Europe. We have prohibition, for example, in Sweden and that's where the highest level of alcoholics in Europe are. I do not know what led our minister to this law, but I think that the law itself is bad, incomplete, harmful to Slovenia, harms Slovenian people, harms the Slovenian economy and also harms Slovenian indigenous culture, where the glass always belonged and will belong. And know, Mr. Minister, I'm going to throw it myself, with the greatest joy and even greater joy. And so will others, who have not yet. But they'll say, oh, if the case is forbidden, that's something interesting, let's give it a try. And instead of having now - to know where those who drink alcohol from a bottle are now going to have primary boys hiding in different corners with bottles in their hands and "knocking". We haven't had that before. If that was the case, these were exceptional cases. Now I'm afraid this will become a practice. I think the law is bad and stupid in itself, and we shouldn't accept it. That is exactly the case with these harmonisation amendments. It all reminds me of something like going to a forest fire to put out with a flower-watering claw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you. Branko Kelemina wants another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Secretary, with all due respect for your efforts and so on, if I'm very polite, but it really seems to me that it is impossible for a waitress or waiter or anyone, or shopkeepers, to find out in any way that any third person who has come, say, to buy a bar or whatever, will buy some alcohol, in order to carry it to a third party who may even be outside the bar or anywhere to find out whether it is true or not. These assumptions, if people are at least about normal, say, they can't figure it out. They can't figure it out! And if the inspector accidentally sees it, he's out in front of the store -- let's say the case -- he's a bum who's totally drunk, let's say, and someone from the store will bring him a drink -- maybe an ignorant man, because he won't know the law, or something else he won't drink, let's say; whoever he is -- and he'll pass it on to that drunken bum or whoever he is, he'll be punished. It can't be. If you say there won't be another, let's say, on the "face of the city" if you see one in the bar, and he'll say to him that the salesman will hear, "You order me one glass, because I can't get one, because he won't give it to me." [[...]] That's another thing. And if that's what the inspector next hears and the waitress hears this conversation and even then breaks the law and the inspector's there, then I'd assume he's entitled to a fine. Otherwise, under no circumstances. If that's what you mean, let it be, but I'm a bit of an objective person who sees things the way they actually do in life, a little worry that there might not be an abuse by an inspector, and that they would charge these poor people there in these places who are fighting for their existence to be harmed. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the debate. As I no longer see the desire for further discussion, we will decide on these amendments in accordance with the agenda of the National Assembly at 6.10 p.m. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. At 16.50 we will move on to the 10th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u162	We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY LINE - FIRST DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. Please finish your individual discussions so we can get started. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to this law, there is a group of eleven Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the draft law on supplementary explanations. Mr. Winning the Elinčič Noble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we have before us the Act amending the Act on Medals, which was already passed in 1995. Since then, Slovenians have already had a law regulating this matter, but this law has adopted some of the inconsistencies that I am correcting by this law amending the law. This is only a matter of brief and small changes in the fourteenth articles. One of the most important changes is that the law, as it was used, prevented the use of new decorations adopted by the Government and also published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in 1995 and in March. There is still a so-called sign of freedom or independence of Slovenia, which, in fact, with a distance from the event which created it, has lost every weight. Moreover, this distinction has been shared or shared for so long and so long, so inconsistent, so incomplete and reckless that it has also lost all weight and validity. The second thing that is important in this law amending legislation is that it corrects certain matters in the basic law, stating that the distinctions under this law are those which must not be made or borne. In fact, the basic law states that it is forbidden to wear anything similar to a decoration in general. This means that any woman carrying a brooch could be prosecuted and punished. It means that, in fact, because of specific forms of decoration, it would be forbidden to wear most of the jewelry and, in some cases, the garter if any lady still wears it, namely, in England we know the order of the undergarments. To avoid this senseless dictatorship, I have also proposed this amendment to the law in Article 12, which then adds the words that this applies to the distinctions under this law. If someone "disputed" and said that by means of this law amending the law we would prevent those who have received the gold, silver or honorary sign of the Republic of Slovenia, that is not true. This mark shall remain in force. This is in accordance with the already adopted law and these signs remain, wear and lose nothing on their weight. It is only that during certain periods certain decorations are no longer granted. After all, despite the fact that the hero of the former country and even in Slovenia, the medal of the hero still has the same weight as it did at the time of the award, this award is no longer awarded. In short, it makes sense for the law to be adopted. That we no longer have double legislation in this area, but that we have one regulated legislation. This could not be done in the previous country because of the requests made by the President of the State of Kučan. I think we can work this out now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you for this supplementary explanation. There are no government representatives present to give them the floor, so we will go to a presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups on the proposal of the law. I give the floor to France Lenk for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, honourable Members. My contribution would be more general, i.e. the introductory speaker, Mr Jelinčič, mentioned that this law has been in force since 1995 and its purpose is to change it and complement it in order to make it more useful as well. In order to amend and supplement the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose, but does not specifically support, but has given its opinion on the individual articles, from which we can conclude that the government will also cooperate with its amendments and thus contribute to eventually reaching a useful law. That, after eight years of application, the law on the emoluments of the Republic of Slovenia has not been applied in practice, but all these years after independence, as we have already heard from the introductory explanation, have been applied only to the law on decorations, such as the honorary mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems that by using and awarding decorations under the law on decorations, the honour mark of freedom of the Republic of Slovenia has narrowed all the policy of distinctions to meriting the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. It has overlooked many others, including deserving citizens, in the development of democracy, culture, economies, sports, health, education, work and humanitarian organisations and other socially beneficial organisations, societies and in many other areas of our lives. But only the honorary sign of freedom lost its value and meaning with an excessive number of dignitaries. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the proposal for a law is a good basis, that amendments should be amended or amended accordingly and that they should also apply in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. State distinctions in an important segment point to the state of the country or the attitude of those individuals and people who have earned national prominence in their activities. For this reason, we must say that I am surprised that representatives of the government do not participate in this law, so that they are not involved in the general debate, because I think it would be useful. In the area of the award of State decorations, it is late to establish the transparency, order and dignity of the State and to address the uncertainties in the allocation of state decorations. For this reason, we are also interested in this proposal so that there is a single policy for the award of state decorations. In Slovenia alone, we have two laws on national decorations: the law on honouring the Republic of Slovenia and the law on decorations of the Republic of Slovenia, because it has been found that only the law on honours cannot show all credit for the Slovenian people, for the Slovenian nation. However, in 1995 the law on decorations was not applied or was not applied by the former President of the State and did not grant any distinction under this law. It is unclear why the former president of the law did not want to implement it, whether he restricted it to his rather politically selective choice of designers or whether there were other reasons. The fact is, too, that there has been inflation in the granting of medals, especially in the last months of the Presidency of the former President. This has considerably evaluated the recognition that should be granted solely for the merits of the defence of freedom and the exercise of sovereignty. As my speakers have already mentioned, it was given over long and over and lost weight, which is actually sad and unfortunate that this happened. In the midst of such a situation and anomalies, when the highest credits for the defence of freedom and the enforcement of sovereignty under an unknown criterion, for example, such as the controversial multimillionaire Soros, it is, of course, essential that a consistent law-based approach be taken to the award of state distinctions. For this reason, we hope that the proposed law can lead to appropriate regulation in this area with appropriate improvements. It would be interesting and useful if the current president of the country also defined the fundamental law and the amendments to the law that we are considering today. In order to bring the marriage to an end, but not a well-established rush, it takes a reasonable time to submit amendments in order to meet the needs of the country in the final form. In the Social Democratic Party, we do not agree with the provision of Article 13 of the bill, which provides that, as from the date of the entry into force of the law, the gold, the silver mark of the Republic of Slovenia, which is awarded for the defence of freedom and the exercise of sovereignty, shall cease to be awarded. For we believe that people who deserve such a sign are still likely to be, but, as we have already mentioned, this must be used very selectively, and therefore it is not necessary to abolish this sign, but to grant appropriate recognition by this law, which is proposed. In addition, I would like to draw attention to another matter that would be worth considering in Article 15 of the basic law. Article 15 states: "The President of the Republic may withdraw the medal if the medallor is sentenced by a judicial judgement to imprisonment for a crime against human rights and freedoms." And so on. This, as I say, is contained in the basic law. However, it does not include when a person should not be awarded a medal if he has committed a crime in his life against human rights and freedoms, because we know that there have also been such cases, that persons who were members of some of the judges when they were sentenced to the death of innocent people who were, of course, abolished might have been wise to consider avoiding such possibilities, that this may also be indicated - unfortunately, it comes from inappropriate practices, but nevertheless. So, as we have already mentioned, we are in some way in favour of this law with the observation that it needs to be properly completed, in this case we believe that it could be given a solid basis for the award of state decorations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on decorations is intended, in the opinion of the applicants, to remove a number of uncertainties regarding the wearing, awarding, succession and sale of decorations. Above all, it is intended to abolish the dual policy of awarding. Moreover, it seems unacceptable to them that the 1995 law on decorations is not being implemented and that the award of the honour mark on the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia would be inconsistent with positive Slovenian legislation. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law on decorations does not solve the fundamental dilemma of how to amend the existing law in order to be suitable for realisation. We certainly do not imagine that this is an honorary sign of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia in three stages, simply to stop distributing. We find it unacceptable that the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia will not lose its position, weight and validity, even though it will no longer be distributed, as it will remain the highest national distinction. The comparison with some past distinctions is not appropriate because, in this case, it is a distinction that is awarded as the only one in the new country and the criteria for its distribution have not lost weight. In addition, it is something that is linked to a different place and time. The honorary mark of freedom is of symbolic value and is one of the symbols of the state, which is considered not to be constantly changing, but to give them added value to their sustainability. Therefore, proposals for changes must be carefully thought out and all their consequences weighed. Finally, it is difficult to imagine that the dignitaries, as stated in the proposal, would accept the explanation with understanding and without surprise if I express myself lithoically. It is also unclear how this will affect the provision of Article 3, which gives the President the highest honour. We agree that it is necessary to arrange the production and transport of whole decorations for the needs of museum collections, but, of course, the question arises as to the extent to which collectors' decorations have been produced, in view of their mention of the expected inflow of assets from sales of decorations, which are intended to be separated from those intended for collectors only by a special letter code. The proposal for the introduction of privileges, rights and financial compensation seems to be under-advised and therefore unacceptable. It is therefore surprising that the law will not require any additional funding from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the light of these three fundamental concerns regarding the proposed law, there are still some other shortcomings, such as the inclusion of statutes in the law. It does not, however, resolve the issues related to the procedures for the award of decorations, the appointment of a commission and the responsibility of ministries for proposals in order to ensure a credit assessment system which is the basis for the award of decorations. The relationship between appropriate and acceptable solutions and inadequate and under-thinking is therefore in favour of the latter. Thus, the fundamental dilemma remains: whether proposing amendments and supplementing the law on decorations in the present law improves them so much that, despite the concerns mentioned in the second reading, it is possible to change and achieve the predicted goal, or better to prepare a new text that will give us a viable law on decorations. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that there is a better alternative. Therefore, we also consider that the proposed law is not suitable for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be given by a colleague Yuri Malovre. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u171	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. In the introductory explanation of Mr Zdob Jelinčič's fellow Member, it is correct to conclude that there is a confusion in this area. And secondly, we find that, as a society or as a country, we do not do enough for people who do more for the nation or for the country than they do for their work. If we look back a little back to history, to ancient times or to Middle Ages, we can see that they were still able to raise people who had done more: either with honorary titles or with decorations, such or otherwise, or with material recognition. The former Yugoslavia also had a lot of confessions. I think they were given about 30 million, that on average almost everyone got a confession of one and a half. I have to say I didn't get it, but I don't know why, because by this mathematical method almost everyone would belong. The new law on decorations has also been in force for almost seven years, but ten years of age are still in force and, as has been said, these are still inadequate decorations. We also miss a few things in this marriage. That is, we miss the allocation protocol, then we also miss the rights and privileges of the law, which are not sufficiently defined. Although it is not included in the chapter, these matters are not sufficiently defined. Then it is too little defined or too vague to wear and what happens when the medallion dies and too little precision is given: when and how. The position of the parliamentary group is similar, given the coalition contract, which provides that the coalition in the National Assembly will only support those bills tabled by members of the opposition, in which it will be necessary to comply in advance in accordance with the envisaged procedure. By the end of May 2002, the Government had sent a written opinion to the National Assembly, which concluded that it did not in principle object to the fact that it had a number of specific comments to the individual article. Therefore, if we come from the above-mentioned facts, our first-reading group will support the proposal of the law, with the reservation that some of the envisaged solutions are unnecessary, some should be specified, they should be carefully reconsidered, they should also be changed, and in particular to increase the number of different features, as also pointed out by the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Once again, I give the word of victory to Jelinčič Trimenite for the position of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A number of interesting statements have been made today, and I must say that I agree with most of these matters. Above all, I agree with the fact that there are many people who have earned medals and who have not received them. For they did not receive them because there were no or no corresponding decorations, and because they were not politically fit for the one who gave the medals. It must be said that there are hundreds of people at the Ministry of the Interior waiting for a few years to be awarded the corresponding decorations, and yet none of them are yet. As regards the wearing of decorations, the bearing of decorations is governed by the statutes of distinctions, and there is also a proposal for the statute to become part of the law. Some others also determine the statutes of distinction in relation to the award and award of decorations, so Article 7 also states that "Article 9 is amended by adding a new paragraph, which reads as follows: 'The statutes of distinctions are part of this law." I wouldn't say there's not enough decorations. In fact, there are seven decorations in this case, but all these decorations can be divided into three areas: military and security, civil and diplomatic. That's what they say, in this case, three times seven, twenty-one. I think we're taking on a complex diapozone, and that's what the government at the time understood. But what was interesting was what the representative of the United States said. It is clear to me that she had to say what she was ordered to say and what the distinguished former President of the State ordered, that nothing should change, that these decorations should continue to be shared, preferably from the same points of origin as before. But I would only point to a few mistakes. First of all, it's not a novelty of the law, it's a law amending the law. It is a law that only corrects certain incompatibilities and imperfections. I find it strange that, in her performance as heir to the Communist Party, she also denied the existence of a national hero's order. On the other hand, I tell her that even today the order of France Joseph is no longer granted, and yet this order has its validity in Austria and also in other countries of the complete Austro-Hungarian monarchy. And the sustainability of certain decorations does not give any value. The value of the decoration gives a definite distribution and not just an average, and according to the beauty of the eyes, as it may seem. The proposed law amending the law also adds a new chapter "right and privilege". I don't know what the representatives of the United List are in so much pain if some medallion of the highest medal, which - I'm sure there won't be as many as there are now, there won't be 200 or 300 of them, but there will be only a few of them - if this medallion has, for example, a free train ticket in Slovenia. Because airline tickets in Slovenia cannot be given for free anyway, because Slovenia is too small to have domestic air transport, and we do not have shipping within Slovenia. That is why I think it would make sense if the U.S. Charter took into account the subject of a law amending the law and reformed it, but not to decide from the level of opposition or opposition to a member of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I must remind you, Mr Jelinčič, that the presentation of the parliamentary groups does not go against the views of the parliamentary groups, because this is not allowed. And please don't let this happen next time. I give the floor to Igor Štemberger, the position of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. As has already been said, in spite of the fact that there have been seven years of honours in Slovenia, in practice until recently only the law on decoration - the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia - has been applied. In what way and to what extent it has been distributed is the subject of a debate that is not part of today's debate. However, there is certainly a good argument for the adoption of a supplement to the existing law on decorations, which should finally be brought to life. A new person in the capacity of the President of the Republic can also contribute greatly to this. This remains the one who gives the medal with the order. In the Party of Young Slovenia we join the proposaler's position that the honour mark of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia, which has so far been distributed primarily as a symbol of independence, has lost its date. It also maintains that it is wise to abolish the dual policy of awarding distinctions, and therefore we support the party's proposal for amendments, including the amendment of Article 21 of the existing law on decorations. So that the medals are gold, the silver mark of freedom no longer confers. If I conclude, the proposal for amendments to the law is an appropriate proposal and will be supported by the Youth Party, we will vote in favour of the continuation of the procedure. For the necessary nonessential corrections, there will be sufficient time to proceed and with little good will we can adopt or make a good law. However, if it is used well and above all properly, it will depend on the will of one person as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thank you. And the position of the LDS Club. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u177	Respectable. On 13 May 1999, the then National Assembly rejected a bill identical to the bill we now have before us. On this proposal of the law, which was rejected in May 1999 and submitted in 1997, the Government, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs at that time and the Committee on Internal Policy placed it on condition for further consideration. Finally, he was rejected by the National Assembly. The fact is that the discussions at the time were broad and the conclusions were broad and the proposaler, who, while complementing the same law with a slightly more enriched explanation, did not take into account the suggestions of the secretariat, the government, the internal policy committee or the government at the time. Well, now we're in 2002 and we're facing it again, maybe in different circumstances, with the same proposal, so we're dealing with it again. We come from a point of view, as the proponent says, that we have two laws, the one in 1992 and the one in 1995, which deal with the same matter and which double or set different types of awards in certain places. Between 1992 and 1995, and in the meantime, Mr Jelinčič, not the Trinitarians, produced a statute of honour, as I read in the explanatory memorandum, in 1995 also an integral image and presented the idea of using an old symbol, a symbol of the Trinity, the birth of a Kohla culture used on jewelry that was dug up in Kranj. That's how I read my explanation. What Jelinčič of the Tribal Intruder is the fact that all these symbols are not used, and with the amendment of the law, he wants to eliminate the duality of the application of both laws, i.e. the short proposal, proposes the abolition of the medals of gold, silver and honour marks of the Republic of Slovenia, which refer to independence, by, of course, retaining the distinction for merit in the defence of freedom and the exercise of the sovereignty of the Republic. [[...]] In fact, only this Article, Article 13, of the transitional provisions, should still be crucial and remain somewhat less crucial or more redundancies, but only in appearance. For, on the other hand, some changes are eloquent in the proposed law. In this way, the President of the Republic is supposed to be involved in only one future, that is to say the highest decoration. But I wouldn't be as available to him as a medal of courage or honor as any mortal. Not so insignificant at all, and for collectors at all, is the solution whereby the applicant introduces the possibility of producing a specialised collection of decorations that differs from the official ones. These special specimens, I'd like to refer to them as duplicates or copies, on condition that they can be sold. The proposal even states that this would mean enriching the state treasury and increasing the budget, if there are a lot of collectors abroad and at home who are interested in such collections. Of course, it is true that if anyone knows, our proposer certainly knows. Furthermore, Mr Jelinčič has been somewhat joking when he speaks of the possible act of a valid law that prohibits the making and wearing of signs that have the form or appearance of decorations. Of course, it was perfectly self-evident, but of course the strict eye can interpret it in its own way, if a woman wearing a pantstie that is similar to a decoration could be punished at every turn. Well, yeah. [[...]] Undoubtedly, the proposer somehow purchased this area, but it's no big deal. Why not if it's a piece? In fact, he made symbol proposals and an integral image of the decorations, which is usually in the domain of professions or public calls and competitions. This, of course, does not deny him knowledge, but of course he has doubts about the procedures that should be carried out in order to find the best possible solutions between the various professional offers. If this is the case for the best provider, for example, websites or integral images, for example, public services, this should also apply to decorations that are, of course, eternal, symbolically significant and, at emotional and national level, highly valuable procedures. This is not only judged by those who receive it, but also judged by museums, historians, designers and all others who combine knowledge of the form and its contents. Of course, there is a key concern if I just conclude whether it is valid whether new circumstances have indeed arisen which could significantly reduce the decision of the State Assembly in its previous composition. In my opinion or in my opinion, the LDS - no.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Majda Zupan as the first to report has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree that both of the laws in this field, both the Medal Act, the 1992 Slovenian Honorary Mark and the 1995 Medal Act, indicate a certain duality and disorder in the award of decorations, wearing, inheriting and selling decorations. With the amendment of the law before us, proposers want to address these problems with a rapid procedure, because it is less difficult to change, which is supposed to be improvements. Certainly, there are meaningful comments, for example, about the fact that a record is kept in one place, which reduces red tape in the public administration. The statutes of distinctions, which are now a separate act of the government, are also supposed to form an integral part of the law, ensuring that the criteria do not change. It is also necessary to fill the legal void of inheritance of medals with meaning. I believe, however, that we must pursue the objective of creating a legal basis on which to make the distinction transparent, with clear objectives, who, why, and when to celebrate, that it would not happen as it did recently, when the current President of the Republic, before his term of office, decorated all the colleagues in the cabinet, except for three. I believe that this actually represents inflation of decorations and reduces the importance and value of decorations. On the other hand, I cannot help but mention that he did not receive any distinctions, for example, from a man who did much for the Slovenian state, Dr. Pučnik, but from someone else. I believe that the law on the mark would still be kept up-to-date, as someone else has been overlooked since the time of independence, but I want it to be used selectively and in an argumentative manner. Nevertheless, the proposed novel is worth considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I'd give Janez Janša a word, but he's gone, and Frank Kangler's next. That is why I give the floor to Mrs Majdi Shirca, who is not at the moment, and also time has spent by LDS. Mag. Janez Petty Officer - he's not here either. Jože Tanko - he's not here either. France Tsukati - it's not there either. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much for the applause, although it would be better if we could prepare our own discussions on an important topic. At the time of the adoption of the amendment of this law, I think it is important that many debaters have touched on the current practice of awarding national decorations, the highest decorations that have been conceived as a symbol of Slovenia's independence and have mentioned that inflation has occurred and political criteria have also been established for the award of these awards. In fact, it happened, unfortunately, in the country, that some who were not politically fit for the one who awarded the medals did not receive the medals, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u182	Please, for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u183	And we should definitely get them. [[...]] Although this is the ingratitude of the state and institutions of the state towards its best sons, there is nothing new in the history of the Slovenians, but I firmly believe that Slovenian people will be or that history will reward such, and among them, of course, the first Dr. Jožet Pučnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u184	Please don't disturb the debater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u185	Which would certainly have earned such a confession. [[...]] However, there was a share that, of course, he was in an unworthy way in advance wondering how he would react to the possible granting of some recognition - in such a situation it was normal because it was an unworthy way to give up. However, as I say, I firmly believe that both the Maistra and the fighters who were awarded only in 1999 were, I think, only three of them, who were already about a hundred years old, such as the Tigers, who were not only decorated in 1997, who were also likely only for a sample, that, like Jože Pučnik, they will be permanently marked in Slovenian history, that they are sources of Slovenia, the Slovenian state and that our future families will be able to preserve memory and respect for these people. We are adopting a new law, and I hope that in good faith, it will avoid such injustices, in fact, that it will be a suitable foundation when the state medal will no longer be a political merit or decoration for political merit, for political fitness, but will be a real decoration for the real contribution to the country's well-being, that the award for the quality of that medallion and for all that the winner has contributed to his life for the Slovenian state. For this reason, once again, I think that order should be made in this area, so that, through the second and third readings, this law is complemented, let us add that some of the non-consistencies contained are eliminated and that we come to a basis that will allow the current President to act as President of all Slovenians and medals to be divided impartially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you. We have exhausted the debates of the honourable Members and Members who were present at the time of the debate. On the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, we still have the opportunity to request an additional hearing. And I'd like to write down my wishes after the debate first. Mag. Majda Potter. Anyone else? Mr. Jelinčich. Anyone else? And Mr Jerovšek. Five minutes each. Please, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you for your words, Mr President, and now also thank you for warning that the Rules of Procedure had been violated before in the debate of colleague Jelinčič. As a starting point of my debate, I would like to choose a quote from the famous Shakespeare drama, used in some other circumstances, but I cannot help but repeat it. Shakespeare wrote, "There is no good or evil in itself, that is what our judgment will do." And the proposed novels of the Medals Law have just shown that the debate has shown duality in exactly what the Medal of Medals Law should govern, and between what is given to the award of decorations by someone. I believe that the Valuation Act must provide solutions that allow not only for the present President, but also for the following Presidents to take into account the procedures for the selection and determination of those who have done their dues and have thus proved to be worthy bearers of the decorations that the President may grant This is also my fundamental consideration of the proposed amendment to the law, which promises to improve some of the solutions currently in place, does not eliminate, repeat, all that the adopted text of 1995 would do for an effective law, which would also allow for the award of medals. And whoever was willing to listen to what was said also realized that, in principle, I did not object to some things just like that, but I objected simply because they were poorly prepared. There are too many things that have been bad, so mistakes are understood to explain in detail, but what I am going to say to the end and repeat from the previous point of view is: the 1995 medals law is not appropriate. The law needs to be amended, but the proposed amendment to the law is not the one that would allow the existing law to be corrected in such a way as to be acceptable and feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you. I give my word to another applicant, Mr. Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Once upon a time, the great Roman writer Tacitus said somehow: "Go profanum vulgus, et archeo" - and yet I will speak further and I will tell some that the law that we have before us today is not a novel of law, it is not a new law, but a law that changes the law. In short, this means that we are correcting some of the inconsistencies that the basic law has. Some may find that hard to understand, but I think Cicero once said, "Aquila non captat muscas." I therefore think that any further discussion is not very meaningful. Certainly, however, discussers should read at least the basic law in order to know what is already in the basic law and then the bill proposed today on amendments to the basic law or amendments and additions. Some debaters spoke soberly and wisely; some debaters spoke very vehemently, very emotionalally, very uplifted and yet without any weighty basis. Otherwise, another Roman once said, "Ex niil nil."
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you. I didn't understand everything either. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Jerovsk. He's quitting. We have exhausted the debate with this. On the proposal to decide that the law is suitable for further consideration, we will vote at 18.10. Until then, I'm taking a break, and I'm breaking this agenda. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u191	I ask all colleagues, Members and Members to come to the Chamber to continue their work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please calm down. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I welcome the ministers present and Secretary of State. We're going to break up 2. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. We will decide on the proposal for a decision by Mr Andrej Bajuk, who reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Anton Ropa asked Dr. Andre Bajuk about the policy of pricing services of public companies in the light of profit-making, in narration, to invest in financial investments outside the business." We will vote on this proposal for a decision. Dr. Bayuk, perhaps an explanation for the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u192	That's right, Mr. President. Thank you so much for the word, the explanation for the voice. The question I raised to the Prime Minister yesterday did not get the right answer. Above all, we have not been aware of who actually has the responsibility in our country to control all prices based on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u193	Just a minute. I ask all Members and Members to calm down so that they can put an end to each other's debates so that the speakers can make their explanation of their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. So the question is, who's in control, who's responsible for what's happening to us? Because there are some really weird things going on. Even with this last decree, an administrative decree that has frozen prices. The question is, the legitimate question is why we have frozen prices, for example, in one institution that actually generates profits and thus allows us to invest in very questionable things. I understand that it may not be the responsibility of this National Assembly and that this particular issue will have to be resolved, as far as Energy Ljubljana is concerned, at the level of the Ljubljana municipality. However, this national assembly must know what is happening in our country in this area. The President's reply was unclear. He explained to us what he thought or did not mean by the International Monetary Fund, explaining to us what kind of laws are at stake. Who's responsible? Who really controls, who demands that the municipal companies come up with those radical changes that will actually allow us to have different prices, there was no answer about this and this is the responsibility of the national assembly, so I will vote in favour and I hope that most will also support me. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you. Comrade Sasha Peca, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u196	Explanation on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. We will support the consideration of this topic at a future meeting, in particular in terms of ensuring transparency and efficiency of governance and, on the one hand, political parties, whether they will be linked to the banking system in the Ljubljana municipality or through various holding companies. It seems to us that the National Assembly is reaching out to this issue, and it seems reasonable for us to adopt certain binding decisions at such a meeting, in spite of the various provisions, whether by the Business Commission or by the Secretariat. It would make sense that as many times as possible, not only in this case, whether prices or investments, should be met with this topic. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will support the proposal for the inclusion or treatment of this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you. No one wants to explain their vote anymore, so I am putting the motion to a vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 73 of us present, 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We're moving on to break three. At the end of the day - with a second defensive proposal for a law on graduation. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment to Article 4 of the LDS Member Club and the United Nations, SLS and DeSUS Group. We're voting. 69, in favour of 59 votes against 5. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on Article 11 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to Article 11. We're voting. 68 present, in favour of 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will vote on Article 24 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to Article 24. We're voting! There's 72 present. 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on Article 26 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 26. We're voting! I'm here for 74. There were 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 46 and the amendment to this Article of the LDS, United Kingdom, SLS and DeSUS. Can we make a decision? We're voting! I'm here to see 73. 61 votes against 1. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 50 and the amendment to this Article of the same parliamentary groups. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! 70 present. It's 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 60, as well as the amendments of the same parliamentary groups, LDS, SLS, the United List and DeSUS. We're voting! I'm at 66. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that all amendments, except for Article 26, are accepted. I give the floor to Secretary of State Elid Bandle of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Since amendments have been adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal, I propose, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the State Assembly carry out the third reading of the law on graduation at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you. You have heard the proposal to hold a third hearing in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on this proposal. A decision will not be taken if more than one third of the Members present oppose it. We will decide on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. 74 present, in favour of 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law after the end of the agenda for this meeting. The services of the National Assembly will propose a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. With that, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to four. DOCTOR OF THE DAY AND WE CONTINUE WITH THE END OF THE DAY LINE - PROPOSAL OF A LAW ACCESS TO PUBLIC INFORMATION. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, for the new Article 2.a. It was tabled by the LDS Member Club, the United Nations Group and DeSUS. Can we go to a decision? We're voting. 71 present, the vote was 66.2 against. [[66 votes in favour]] [[Two against.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendment was tabled in Article 5 by the Nova Slovenije Group. Can we make a decision about him? We're voting. 71 present, voting 26 to 40. (For the vote was 26.)(against 40.) The amendment has not been accepted. By the 21st Article, the New Slovenia Group has also tabled an amendment and we will decide on it. We're voting. 71 present, in favour of 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to Article 22 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club, the United Nations Group and DeSUS, and we will decide on this. We're voting. 73 present, in favour of 44 votes against 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 23 has been tabled by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group as an amendment, which we will set out. We're voting. 73 present, in favour of 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The same parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 24. That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. 73 present, in favour of 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on Article 26 and the amendment of the same parliamentary group, with the footnote: the amendment is substantively linked to the amendments to Article 26a(1) to Article 26b to Article 26c to Article 36a (1); if this amendment is not adopted, those amendments shall become irrelevant. That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. 75 present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted; this has made the amendments to Article 26a of Article 1, Article 26b and Article 26c and Article 36a irrelevant and will not be decided on. Therefore, we will now decide on the amendment to Article 26a(2). Is that understandable? That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. At 72, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 28 and the amendment of the LDS MPs and the United Nations and DeSUS members. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 69, in favour of 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 29 and the amendment of the LDS MPs and the United Nations and DeSUS members. That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. 68 present, in favour of 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment to Article 36a under point 2 of the LDS Member Club and the United Nations and DeSUS Group. We're voting. 74 present, in favour of 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Finally to Article 40 and the amendment of the same groups of Members. That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. 74 present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended this by voting on the amendments. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." That's what we're gonna decide. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. 64 present. It's 55 votes to 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going to break five. Period of the day - another defends the bill of correction of guilt. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal of a law amending the law on the correction of wrongs, second treatment, is not suitable for further consideration." We will decide on this proposal for a decision. I'm calling off the vote. I'm sorry. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you. I'm not gonna take advantage of this, but I don't think it's been quite clear what the conclusion is. Perhaps some did not read and would repeat again, because there were a lot of voices to hear around here because I did not hear well. Once again, if you repeat the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u201	May I have your attention, please? The proposal for a decision reads: "The proposal for a law amending the law on the correction of wrongs, the second treatment, is not suitable for further consideration." We will vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting! There are 76 of us present. It was 55 votes against 19. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break six. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on special conditions for the registration of ownership rights in individual parts of a building in a land book, a restricted procedure, a third of the defences. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading of the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. I'm asking for coordination? Legal service and government have not alerted us to any inconsistencies, so we can make a full decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting! I'm here for 74. It's 63 votes against 3. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going to break 7. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE PAYMENT TRAVEL LAW - A SHORT PROCEDURE, THIRD PROCEDURE. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading of the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. The rule of law or the government has not pointed out any non-compliance, so we are moving on to a decision. May I have your attention before the vote? We're voting. At 76, 55 votes to 13. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 13.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. We're going to break 8. Period of the day - this is the third defensively proposed bill to provide conditions for the function of the President of the Republic. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. May I have your attention in the hall, please? You have too many individual debates. We're ready to move on to Article 8. We will decide on the amendment to Article 8 of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Voice explanation, Comrade Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u202	With the amendment to Article 8 of the Act, we have tried to follow in the Slovenian National Party the tendency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is similar to that of the amendment, to define the criteria for the complexity and number of jobs in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, as is the document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that the adoption of this amendment would allow or make substantive provision for the law for the real purpose it is intended for, and not for certain other officials to sunk in the office of the President. We suggest you support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Lavrinz, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u204	This amendment cannot be supported because the law on public officials still applies. And I suggest that the amendments be read only by article 1. Secondly, I propose that they read the article 201 of the Law on Public Servants, which was adopted last June. They'll read what's in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you. Victory, Jelinčič, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think the adoption of this amendment is meaningful and smart. Those who do not know, however, should read the decision on the criteria of complexity and the number of jobs in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, ministers or ministers, the Minister without a director and the Secretary-General of the Government for whom working relationships are concluded for a certain period of time. This has been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I think colleagues from the LDS might know that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 71 present, in favour of 29 votes to 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 9. Point 1 is replaced by the - Amendment of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group and under point 2. - Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats of Slovenia SDS. The amendments shall be mutually exclusive. If it's the first one, the second one is irrelevant. We can go to decision-making. We are voting on amendment number one. At 70, 29 votes to 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will therefore vote on the amendment under point 2. We vote on the amendment under point 2. At 72, 29 votes to 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We are moving on to Article 20 and the amendment to Article 20 of the DeSUS Group. Voice explanation, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I will briefly explain why we will vote in favour of this amendment in the Group of Members. The devil is in detail. The reader of Article 20 will note the difference that in Article 20 he will provide the State budget with contributions only for Article 2. What about the first article, which also guarantees the former President, I will not say pay, but compensation in all these cases listed there, and certainly the amount in the state budget must be provided for all contributions to be settled. I hope you understand and will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. At 72, the vote was 38 to 12. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Articles 21 and 3 of the amendment to this Article. The first is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, the second is the amendment of the LDS Club and the third is the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I do not see the need to explain our vote, so we are moving on to the amendment decision under point 1. We're voting. 72 present, in favour of 28 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We will vote on the amendment under point 2. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. 68 present, in favour of 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under number three. We're voting. 72 present, in favour of 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. Since the legislature or the government has not pointed out that, due to the amendments adopted, the law is inconsistent, we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation of vote, colleague Kelemin
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, my friend! Today, in explaining the amendments, in principle, I have said that I agree with the need to regulate some things at this level and that the existing President and the former President must be given a legal status that will allow them to carry out their functions under the rule of law. However, I have also pointed out certain nonsensees of this bill and some ratings, particularly of the past President, who, in my opinion, are unrealistic and even unnecessary, especially if the former President himself expresses that he does not actually need any privileges and is thus being raped with some administrative matters that he may not want. Personally, I also believe that these things could be arranged substantially differently and that the former President, in view of the fact that they certainly belong to him after the performance of his post or after the expiry of his office and also certain ratings, would also be useful to him. My assessment is that, because the National Assembly has not taken those unnecessary decisions that will burden our taxpayers, which would not be necessary, I will vote against this law and cannot simply define myself differently, because I think it is unnecessary to burden our people with certain irrelevant things that such a respectable person as the former President of the country can handle itself in a significantly better way. In short, I'll vote "against."
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you. Mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u212	The text of the law is not in line with the scope and examples that could be obtained in the neighbouring countries with which we shared civilisation and State tradition. At the same time, the law is not compatible with the social - economic possibilities in our country. Those two just weren't taken into account. Therefore, these ratings, which you have written down in the law, and we disagreed with them - and I did not agree with them - will not contribute to the president's status and moral reputation, but will make this difficult for him at every turn. This is a bad journey for such a law, and that is why I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you. Voice explanation, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Unlike some other fellow Members of Parliament, I will not support this law and I will vote against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u215	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u216	In view of the law before us, my personal opinion is that Slovenia and the Slovenian state need such a law that would give the President the right after his mandate. However, some things in this law are too extensive, given too much, compared to the functions assigned to it under the Constitution. At the same time, we ignore the role of Prime Minister and what happens to those people who serve as Prime Minister after their term of office. The Prime Minister has far more duties and rights than the President of the country, much more influence, much greater responsibility. No one wonders whether the Prime Minister will have his office, his car, with all the ratings given in this law to the President of the State after his work. The third question that arises to me, and I also have a personal opinion, is those who are very loud in this Chamber today and who are probably not following my performance, but it would certainly be good and conscious to contemplate the status of Members. Next year we have elections to the European Parliament, we will vote [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] May I conclude?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u217	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u218	We will elect Slovenian representatives to the European Parliament - what is their status? What's the law? It is my opinion that all the three areas that I have listed, the President of the State, the Prime Minister and the Member of Parliament, should cover one law that would definitively regulate their status after the end of their term of office. I will therefore vote against it and I think it would be fair and proper not to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you. A colleague of Franz Pukšič has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you very much. At the time of the presentation of the Group's position, we have said that we will not support such a law as is proposed without certain amendments. Of course, I will not support it myself, because none of the proposed substantive amendments have been voted on. The problem is that in this country we make laws for individuals, not for systemic legislation. The problem is that in this country, unfortunately, the government is proposing too often to overstep laws, and the problem is, of course, because in this country, there is a ruling coalition for citizens and citizens without reflection in the vast majority of such bad legislation. There is no reason for the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 9 to have officials in the office of the President, and there is no reason for certain privileges in Article 22 which are recorded. And, of course, with such a bad law, we actually do the left - hand service to those for whom they are written. And in a very simple way, demagogy spreads about the social welfare of a small person, and on the other hand, it sticks to the budget for the entire life span. Therefore, I will not be surprised if the Slovenian people will also decide on this at the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you. My friend Max Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I'll be very quick. I'm going to support the marriage because we've taken as many as eight similar and comparatively, I'm going to say, real laws, that's one thing. Secondly, I will say that I am embarrassed that I am a Member with some colleagues, because the demagogy that reigned here today is so great when we talk about the law on Members, of course, it would not be. And the third reason is that if the law falls, the president will determine who will be the official and who will be the tow trucker, under the Law on Public Servants, 201. The third is: none of the ratings have been written as if they had to be taken, but they will choose for themselves. They'll have the right, and that's only five years. That's next. And that's why, colleagues and colleagues, please, those of you who talk about it don't judge by yourselves. Do you think that most Slovenians would accept or vote in elections a person who is not worthy of this trust, which is in ambiguous moral qualities? I'm sure you don't, so I think it's right that marriage is what it is. This is because the legal basis for the rights that a person asserts or does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you. Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u224	If you'll allow me fellow Members and Members of Parliament. I might continue where Mr Lavrinc has stopped. The next thing is, in our congregation, about 1,400 people get a monthly 60,000 tolar salary in Ormoška. And yet these people who get that kind of salary either vote that or they vote that you mentioned a little bit earlier or that was elected. Why is that? It's a different story. But tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues, how do these people spend 60 grand a month? That's a fact in this country. The fact is that we have more and more poverty in this country and that we have more and more citizens living on the brink of survival. And this House, well, I don't think my colleague Lavrinz will let me continue. He will leave this House in his old manner, so that we can continue without him. So, to conclude, I too, on behalf of all those people who can no longer survive in this country, will not vote; but I will not vote either because the current President himself has denied these ratings and the Parliament has literally raped them and in this way in fact takes credibility or you are all perfectly aware of each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you. And the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was almost moved to tears by the performance of my colleague Lavrinac. I think the case was so sensitive and so expressive that it was good that I sat down. But he was talking about that typical manner that the Latins would call "quod faceti jovi, non-hypothetic bovi," and I'm talking to two colleagues today, and I hope you'll understand that. For the rest of us, it doesn't matter if they understand. That's what they say. Someone's allowed everything. Someone's not allowed anything. The current Mr President will be able to determine his own ratings if we do not adopt this terrible law. I'm asking you nicely. You already have. Who demanded this law? Who else than the current Mr. President? They're just gonna take him out to the main party. After all, I hear that Mr President has already chosen a new car that is supposed to cost about half a million euros. I think he'll have it soon. That's what they say now. Yeah, of course, good, armored and stuff like that. That's clear. [[A voice from behind.]] Yeah, the car, it's not like the sky stole it. They've already stolen it from various vice-presidents, and they can also steal it from this president, and we don't know what. Otherwise, I won't support the marriage. The law seems incomplete to me. We have proposed certain amendments that would put the law at least to some extent within one cultural framework. Now - because this law will not be supported by us and because, as Mr Lavrinc says, it is also probably not quite good - I suggest that we accept the addition, as soon as possible, that the President be automatically appointed as a generalissimo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u227	I'm asking you to be serious enough to get us to the bottom of this. My friend Brenčič!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not renounce the intention, nor the way in which the President of the State is provided with the law with some status relationship and also some status social security. But in the way we have performed this law, we are moving beyond the system as our parliamentary democracy has, to the Presidential Republic or to the Republic of the Presidential Type. This is how it is now addressed, including by intervention in the public servants sector. The president of our constitution is not the holy cow who would be given such ratings as we wrote to him. Not that the president doesn't get the status and social ones I'd say - safe days after the end of the term, but there's someone else. In a negative sense, Members are much more exposed to the public, not to speak of the Prime Minister. We just went around that. And I'm not looking for anything for myself. But I do know that this is a shift into the Presidential Republic's system. I won't support the law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you! Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you very much. When the opposition or two opposition parties presented six demands a few weeks or days ago for a democratic balance in the Republic of Slovenia, the Prime Minister rushed to the press conference to explain that we have more important issues in Slovenia that we need to resolve, that we have inflation too high, that we are approaching both European and other integrations, NATO and the European Union, that we also have many other problems. Now I ask: Why does this government have other criteria for the same thing? Are the privileges of former officials what Slovenia needs right now? Are these priorities: saving labour intensive industries, jobs, opening new jobs, saving too high inflation, saving too low pensions, saving poverty in the Republic of Slovenia? So what are the priorities of the government, the resolution of the privileges of officials, or these daily problems that we face today and also require tolars? There's no problem measuring them here. But when we talk about people, small people who need a specific and more appropriate treatment, there are problems. These are the themes for later. Today, however, there is a proposal to provide conditions for the President of the Republic. I think it's a double criterion for the same problem. That's why I'm not going to support this law in any way. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u231	Thank you! And Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Such forms of diversion are common insults to the parliamentary system in the Republic of Slovenia. This diversion and populism, which stems from these debates, are something that hurts the great emancipation project of this country, the central moment of which is Parliament. The President of the Republic is elected directly by the people. The President of the Republic is part of a system that allows people who get 60,000 dollars a month if this system works, but still can get it. A man who has 500,000 wages and who talks about these things in this way is the least of what it is - as I would say - in bad faith it says. At least it's completely in bad faith. Now, if we go as a parliament - because we are a parliamentary democracy - if we go as a parliament to destroy these roles - the role in a country that is also directly elected - then we eat our own essence. If this is about improving the status of these people who get 50 or 60 thousand tolars a month, then it is precisely that we must, what is chosen, lead to improving the situation of these people. The fact that you're getting yourself into a function that's chosen in this way is rude. It's rude!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u233	Time's up. Thank you! Paula Rupar. No replicas, gentlemen. There's no controversy, no replica, just an explanation of vote, because if I break this whole thing off, I put it to the vote. My friend Paula Rupar has the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u234	I already told you why I'm going against this law today. Such debaters, especially Mr Batteli. And you only have one song, just a short one: "Uh, poo-poo, poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo-poo!"
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u235	Nor is that an explanation for the voice, Comrade Rupar. I conclude this explanation of vote and put the bill to a full vote. No, I don't allow replicas. I will put the bill to the vote. Sorry! We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 73 of us present. 44 votes against 28. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. Thank you for participating at this point! We move on to the 9th item of the agenda, the first reading of the proposal for a law on the restriction of alcohol consumption. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments. We have four harmonisation amendments and we will decide on them. I am putting the harmonisation amendment to Article 7 to the vote. We're voting! There are 66 of us in attendance. The vote was 47 to 9. [[The vote is 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. I shall put to the vote the harmonisation amendment to Article 9. We're voting! There's 64 in attendance. It's 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. I shall put to the vote the harmonisation amendment to Article 15. We're voting! There's 66 in attendance. There were 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. I shall make a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 16. We're voting! There's 62 in attendance. 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. We have ended our vote on the harmonisation amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We will vote in full on the bill. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u236	Thank you very much! I won't support the law. In fact, it is a typical pro-habitation law known from history to have mainly negative consequences. This law is a combination of non-transparent and not solid operation of this department. Indeed, in many other areas there are extremely vital and complex matters which the Ministry does not solve. For the last time, for example, we have been faced with the fact that it does not implement the law on asbestos patients, although their pressures and drama are extraordinary and they die daily. In fact, the Ministry here is deceiving the Slovenian public - as if by such a law, which, secondly, will have certain economic negative consequences. He's trying to seduce the Slovenian public in some way. I'm against alcoholism. I don't think I ever enjoy it across the border. However, such pro-habitative laws will not say goodbye to Slovenia. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you. My friend Peter Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fact is, alcoholism is a big problem with us. The fact is, we're at the very top of the alcohol scale. The fact is, every day we face accidents caused by drunks and family traumas and things like that. Can I say to the end? The law is weak, incomplete. As Mr Jerovšek said, some kind of prohibition. Some verbal relationships, like "justifiable to assume someone's drunk." Okay. [[...]] We have programs. However, who will carry them out or who will finance them? That's questionable, too. However, if this law reduces the percentage of alcohol consumption at least a little, if we save at least one life, if we save at least one family so that it does not have such traumas, then we have achieved something. That's the only reason I support this law. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u239	Thank you! The next one has an explanation for the vote of his colleague Branko Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u240	Thank you very much! Respectable all together! I'm going to try to speak as an educated, cultural alcoholic drinker - if I may say so, because the media have declared me a drunk because of the game of words. Otherwise, around New Year's Eve, my colleagues and I drank night after night - I have to use the words correctly so they won't take my word for it. Here's a confirmation that the ladies were then controlled by the police, and the alcote showed 0.0. So no one would think it was despite the fact that we drank alcohol all night. [[...]] I will also oppose this law because there are many foolish solutions. We're just one of the tourist countries. How do you imagine that by 10:00 a.m., a tourist won't be allowed to have an alcoholic drink at any of the bars if he wants to? This is not the case in any European tourist country. No one! How will you apologize to our citizens? Look what the young people have said. This is where I accidentally received one text, Shiška High School: 90% of the young people said that this law would bring nothing. Listen to them, and you'll understand. I firmly believe that this law has a political connotation. What are people going to talk about at the inn today? That they should not drink one shilling in the morning instead of discussing the need to care for proper ownership, not stealing, and other frauds that take place in this country. In short, I think this bill will soon be on the wallpaper again for correction. Such solutions have been adopted, which are in fact lifeless. Not only will it not be possible to enforce the law. There are also harmful consequences to our system. I think it's about time we changed this law. That's why I won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you for explaining your voice. And the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! We Slovenians drink nothing more than the other European nations. Less than that. This is said by serious research and not by research carried out in Slovenia in Slovenia in Slovenia and then by convincing them so much time or by beating them so long that they recognize that they are French. I think I know what's behind this law. First of all, there's a medical lobby in the back that's going to have to prescribe alcohol for prescriptions on paid prescriptions. This will certainly help some to recover well. The second click, which is in the back, is likely to be made by manufacturers of so - called chest bottles or heart bottles. The ones that carry in here. I'll tell you that I'll be the first to get it myself, so I can be five minutes after the law forbids me to drink so I can do something "stupid." I mean, it's not like it's not going to be possible on that bottle of heart below the stamp, who was the manufacturer, but we can't get to know any LDS gentlemen. In short, the marriage is prohibited. Such laws have brought no good. Not in the United States or in Russia or Sweden or in Finland. Right where these laws were introduced, they brought crime into these spheres. They destroyed the state economy. The number of drunks has increased enormously. The largest number of drunks is Sweden, which has the strictest mode of drinking alcoholic beverages. I think it would be more reasonable for the Slovenians to turn to education and perhaps write a law against indiscretion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u243	Thank you! These were explanations for the voice. Tone Partich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u244	It's been known that I haven't been drinking in 30 years. That's because I didn't know how to drink culturally and socially. Otherwise, I am glad that people around me drink and are in good spirits. I don't think it's prohibition that those laws looked very different. Nor is it true that prohibition laws increase the number of drunkards. But they come in more light. Because when it comes to it, they get so drunk that they see it in some way. In Europe, too, I have been asked many questions about how this is completely illegal for us, that it is not actually regulatory. That's why I think it's not really too bad. I don't mind if there's some sort of illogical correction. But I think it's right that we passed such a law. It's not even against the vine and winery of our country and it's not prohibitive.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you! More mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I don't think the solutions in this marriage are good. The fact is that alcoholism is also a problem in the Slovenian area. We have found this in previous procedures and even today. However, in my opinion, addiction is not being treated in the way we have defined it in this law. It's not a good solution. I will not support this marriage. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you! And Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u248	Thank you very much! I will abstain from this law myself, because the problems that are extremely serious are being solved in a complex way and concern the whole functioning of society in terms of improving the quality of life. This applies to traffic regulations, which are applicable to such regulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u249	Please, over here on the right!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u250	If we are aware of the fact that we have a country that has its own institutions responsible for building this quality of life that prevents or does not encourage excessive consumption of alcohol. If we believe in institutions that ensure that there are no too many social differences, if we have institutions - and believe them - that ensure that relations within the Republic of Slovenia are tolerant and normal, if we have institutions that care that the relationship between people, that the relationship between people and the country is normal, then we will reduce both suicide and alcoholism as well as impersonality in traffic and obsession in relations, also business human. This is a big, wide, deep project that needs to be implemented. This law indicates that something must be done in this direction. In itself, it probably will not solve anything unless the matter is systemic, long-term, and well-established.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u251	Thank you! My friend Jaš Zląbec Lukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u252	I didn't mean to call. But such deception and hypocrisy, as we have now heard, over the last half hour, is rarely heard. The fact is that 10% of the male population in Slovenia is heavy alcoholics. Nobody cares. Of course. The vine growers and those who make schnapps are really interested in the fact that there is no law and there is no control. They don't care who they put in the accident. This hypocrisy is unbelievable. The former Yugoslavia had no such laws. Because Tito and the party let people get drunk. Or are we now going to continue one such horror further in one Slovenia that would like to be according to European standards? No European country has such a disorderly problem as we do. As I said before, we are at the top of alcoholism in Europe. And here we are, "crawling."
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u253	Thank you! She's also a colleague of Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u254	Thank you very much! I think it is true that there are a lot of people in Slovenia who, like colleague Kelemina, drink in drops. But unfortunately, there's also a huge number of people who don't drink in drops and find it hard to record. I think there's a lot more records, cops showing how many drunk drivers there are. I think it's a long way around. It seems to me that - whether we believe or don't believe statistics is a fact. But I think there are more of those records that I see myself, which say by the police: public order disturbances, family beatings and things like that. So I think that - if it's been said, I don't know about how all Slovenians have some records, how they don't drink - it's right to say that there are many other records here too. Since there was talk of recipes, I think it's right to say that there are also a lot of recipes written about the injuries suffered by drunkards. And when all taxpayers are happily paid to take care of these drunks. It's right that they're provided. However, I think that the costs, as shown in the explanation of the law, are enormous. I think it's a good idea to mention it because my colleague Kelemin mentioned the students from Shika. I read them a little differently. I was glad that most of those students in the survey published by Dnevnik said they did not smoke. Most of them also said they were not intoxicating. Many of them also welcomed – colleague Kelemina – this law, and said that they welcomed solutions that would make alcohol too easily available to their colleagues, who had been noticed to be intoxicating. I don't think they're gonna say those students were the ones who were against the law. I didn't read that poll like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u255	Thank you! Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u256	Thank you very much! I just want to tell Mr. Yashi the Evil One.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u257	There's no replica, there's an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u258	Then I'll explain my voice. I've told you many times that I'm going against this law. The ban on pouring alcoholic beverages in the morning - I think by 9 a.m. - we've already had this in this country. We've had this before. Remember a few years ago what happened. So those who need it in the morning to do it didn't go to the inn, but they went to the store, bought instead of 0.3, 2.5 or the smallest package. So we don't solve this problem. At our place in Styria, we would say that this is one of those laws that doesn't hurt anything and nothing goes wrong. It will work for fourteen days, and then it will all be forgotten, just as it was with a number of marriages. Perhaps it would be good if another article were included in this law so that ambassadors in Brussels would not spend too much on litres of alcohol. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you! Comrade Leo Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Chairman. I come from Styria myself, but I will vote for this law. I agree that it is possible that all the provisions of this law are not optimal. Mr. Kelemina, I'd be very pleased if you'd let me speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u261	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u262	I'll wait for Mr. Kelemina to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u263	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u264	Stop my watch. Ah, no, leave the watch. So, I will vote in favour of this law, regardless of the fact that it would probably be possible to write in a different way in some segments also probably with better solutions. Of course, it will be an opportunity and an opportunity for this to be improved in the future. But I will vote because if - and I don't want to be pathetic - if there is at least one traffic accident caused by people under the influence of alcohol, we have done much with this law. I don't want to get involved and be pathetic, but that's what this is all about. It's about turning a little bit in the direction that this society should go into. That's why I think it's right to support this law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u265	Thank you! I've seen Mr. Kavticnik before, and then Ivan Mamić. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Chairman. I didn't mean to call. However, so much was said to Minister Kebra for Krajina that he went down on such slippery ground that he introduced a law or proposed a law that he knew would be here that he knew something would happen in Slovenia. [[...]] It's the same thing that went wrong. The law is necessary. The law is necessary for our children. The law is also needed for us and for all Slovenes and Slovenes. But I'm sure the marriage isn't the best. All those who say that marriage is necessary or possible to do better can, of course, prepare it and file it. I'm sure the law will be amended. However, it is only right that such a law, which is before us today, is passed and that we should draw attention to alcoholism, this evil that is present in Slovenia. Once again, Minister Keber, thank you very much. I'll back him up myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u267	Thank you! And Ivan Mamić has an explanation for his voice. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u268	Thank you very much! I support most of the debate we have heard today. These are all the facts we hear from most people. Some are very nice, and so on, and so on, if you could convince me with this because I'm so old - I know how this life runs - I would be for that too. [[...]] So, actually, I almost don't care if I'm up for it or not. However, I think we could invest more resources and special powers and love in children and raise them properly. Then we wouldn't even be dealing with such problems. The letter on the paper - I'm not sure it will help this solution. But the problem is - I agree completely, I'm not replicating anyone. That is the only thing that will happen around here, as Mr Jelinčič said. It's from my heart that I believe something like this will happen. So I will vote against it at my best. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-28-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you! We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the whole law. There are 57 of us present. It's 37 votes to 12. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 12.]] The law is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you, Minister Kebra, for your cooperation. We are moving on to the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Decreasing the Republic of Slovenia. The first hearing is suitable for further consideration. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting! We're in the middle of a vote. There are 61 of us present, 22 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 30.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the session at the 22nd meeting of the choir. We'll pick it up tomorrow, 10 o'clock. Thank you for your cooperation and good night.
