ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Can you please take your seats, we'll begin the continuation of today's session. All colleagues and colleagues, please come from the lobby to the large debate room. Before we begin our work today - we are expected to conclude the 28th regular July session today - let me give two notifications. First of all, colleagues who are detained because of other obligations are: colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, colleague mag. Gračner, colleague Grošelj, Lenko, Levič, colleague Majnikova, after 3 p.m. will not be a colleague of Marsic, otherwise today will be absent colleagues Štemberger and Vukko. The second notification concerns the progress of today's meeting. We have somehow agreed with the leaders of the parliamentary groups to consider this afternoon the possibility of holding an extraordinary meeting of the national assembly immediately after the end of the regular meeting if we conclude the regular meeting within a reasonable time. During this time, I will consult with the Chairman of the competent Infrastructure Committee, the heads of the parliamentary groups in the course of the day, and I will try to announce early this afternoon whether there will be an extraordinary meeting today, or whether tomorrow will be starting at 10 a.m. By all means, you will be informed of plans for today or tomorrow in the afternoon. Now we can start with today's work. We're at 16. POINTS OF THE DAY - IN THE DEBATE OF THE REPRESENTATION OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE WORK, THE FAMILY AND SOCIAL CASES OF DR. DIMOVSK'S GOVERNMENT TO THE ENTERPRISE QUESTION OF JOSEPH JEROWY'S QUESTIONS OF THE SOCIETY PROBLEMICS IN SOME REGIONS. At the previous 27th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the answer that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Vlado Dimovski, had put to the question of the question of social issues in some regions. First of all, he has a 15-minute colleague, Josef Jerovšek, to present his position on the government's response. Then I will give the floor to Minister Dimovski and then to representatives of the groups of Members and Members of Members and Members of Members. And now we're starting a debate. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The only one with a word is Comrade Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Apparently today's topic has attracted a large number of Members of Parliament in this area, not least you've been called in for 40 words. This is obviously a key and most serious issue, the most serious problem of the Slovenian state, which has not been adequately addressed by Slovenian policy so far. Colleagues and colleagues! The direct reason for my question was the protest of the workers of Pek's subsidiary in Trbovje, which took place on 10 June. On it, the unemployed workers in point 5 of their demands demanded the cessation of social disintegration and the economic collapse of less developed areas of Slovenia. Such areas are now more than half of Slovenia and are expanding from Posoča to Prekmurje. Areas condemned to decay and prospects are increasing in Slovenia. The government does not, does not or does not want to effectively come to the aid of these places, municipalities, and entire regions. All three options are poor and show a picture of our power. Some economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, the gross domestic product and the development risk index, are best evidence of severe developmental underdevelopment and social distress. If I give you just a few data from these statistics, I have to say that in all statistics, for example, unemployment, 2002, the highest unemployment rate in the Podravska region is 18 percent, which is 6.5 percent above the national average. This is followed by Pomurska with 17.6, then Zasavska with 15.3 and then Spodnjeposavska with 14.4 and south-east, or Savinja with 14%. The picture of gross domestic product per capita also clearly shows how income is allocated across Slovenia. I have data for 1999, which is practically among the worst, Pomur region, which has 77 000 gross domestic product per capita, once or twice as low as the Ljubljana urban region, which has 134 000 in this year. And this schedule is about the same as unemployment. This Pomurski follows Zasavska, then Podravska, then Spodnjeposavska and Koroška region. Savinjska and South-West Slovenia share the next town. See, according to the development threat index, of course, the first place of the Pomurska region, if index 1 is here, is central Slovenia represented only with 0.03 levels of risk. And these numbers are actually fatal. They point to the degree of decomposition and the fact that it was not the right policy in this area. Unemployment is extremely persistent and is rising again in 2002, despite the fact that some categories of unemployed people are under the control of official statistics. During the period when we enter Europe and have listened to stories of Slovenian success by the government, we are faced with a chain collapse of businesses. First, through the calvary of the collapse of the entire branches went Maribor. The area has been rehabilitated by banks, not by companies that have not recovered today. Today, other regions have joined Maribor: Zasavje, Posavje, Prekmurje, Podravje, parts of Dolenjska, Baska Grapa and so on. Companies in different sectors are failing, especially in the textile and industrial industries. While the crisis in these two sectors is partly conditioned by globalisation, it is clear that the government has found this crisis that did not come overnight unprepared, as this crisis should not have occurred in this form. An analysis of the threat posed by Slovenian companies shows that, at the moment, about 27,000 employees are at the edge of the company's decline. The vast majority of these companies are from regions that are still at risk. I wonder why the government was covering its eyes and only now has it served, or has it done this study, only at a time when some companies may not actually be able to resolve themselves anymore. This situation is not devastating for vulnerable workers now, but, colleagues and colleagues, this situation is dangerous for the entire region, which is in a completely hopeless situation. This situation seriously threatens the internal strength of Slovenia. However, due to the lack of policy so far, the model of Slovenia has been disrupted as a equally evolving society. Such a situation has serious negative consequences in the political, demographic and social spheres. So far, young people in these areas have had significantly worse baseline opportunities, are now virtually excluded from education, from the possibility of achieving adequate employment and so on. This will increase drug and alcohol dependence. Slovenia faces a social bomb that threatens to crack completely, perhaps uncontrolledly. This situation didn't come about overnight. While the European recession is the main excuse of the government, it is largely due to incorrect economic policy, irregular restructuring, the neglect of the introduction of new technologies, the deliberate destruction of businesses due to the interests of privatisation and profitable party-political interests of the two leading parties, the unscrupulous part of the management structures, the unscrupulous greed of the work of the management structures with which the government has pacted. In many companies, the uplifters have exhausted all the money, sent workers to the road, and companies to bankruptcy. This has happened many times with the support of the Slovenian Development Society, which was the graver of many Slovenian companies. Second, development funds were not used efficiently and transparently, and many other anomalies and distortions in the granting of state aid are known. Businesses with links at the top of the policy have fictitiously opened new jobs, received state money for this, and did not pay social contributions to workers. This state money for new jobs has been received several times by some entrepreneurs and has not permanently kept any workers. This is a problem of decommissioned corruption that has been pointed out recently by the head of the Anti-Corruption Office, Mr Penko, who claims that the power of one party, in this case the LDS, has practically caused a situation that is very difficult to resolve or that this party is unable to solve itself In Slovenia, huge sums of money, measured at tens of billions of dollars, have been lost in state companies. This money is widely distributed in the capital or abroad. If there was political will, things could have gone significantly differently, as Slovenia shows us comparable countries such as Ireland and Finland and so on. The result of failed government policy is unbearable social distress in many sub-fed regions such as Zasavje, Posavje, Podravska region, Prekmurje, Posočje, parts of Notranjska and Dolenjska. In his reply, the Minister indicated that the government gives 16 billion tolars to the active employment policy programmes, but did not provide information on how many quality jobs were opened or preserved, although the issue was explicitly stated when the government would take a serious approach to solving increasing unemployment and thus prevent economic disparities and the spread of poverty. We didn't get an answer, an answer that would suggest a solution. If we look at how much money has been spent in these years to create new jobs, we should have shown significantly different results if this money were to be placed and spent transparently. Although the government has always declared a policy of equitable regional development, it has not actually implemented this policy. The law on coherent regional development is a dead letter on paper. We know that this year the government has tried to confuse the situation with the establishment of a new ministry, to which it does not actually allocate resources, so that the story is likely to be similar to that of a coherent regional development law. A significant part of the earmarked money was left to the central government through the channels of clientelism, nepotism from client-political alliances. Over the past week, the government has recognised a flawed economic and development policy by seeking a way out of severe economic problems and the forecasts of the new economic programme. The new economic programme is based on general tightening, but severe social distress and difficult economic situation in the lagging regions have found a special place in the Prime Minister Ropa's programme. The coalition didn't bleach their hair on Sunday lunch either. It is obvious even that the government will make the most of social transfers, which will further exacerbate social distress in the deprived regions, will reduce the government's reimbursement of travel costs, which will prevent labour migration from these regions. The government is actually using an old recipe to take where it's too small and protect the privileged. Otherwise, the government has already put in place programmes that have been socially oriented, with a 30% reduction in public works programmes, which have been a rescue plant for people and communities in these areas. We know that public works in these regions have solved a number of problems. Young people had some sort of rescue plant, and now the government is shrinking on this very segment. In addition, by a regulation setting out the criteria for the granting of social security services, the government has crippled the social welfare scheme at home, thus affecting municipalities in areas that are already experiencing the worst social distress. By these two measures, the government has in fact deviated from the principle of the social state, which is a constitutional category. An important reason for not solving economic problems in half of Slovenia is the government's human resources policy. The whole of Styria, Zasavje, Koroška and Pomurje in the executive authorities are virtually not represented. There is no better way for other Slovenian provinces, Dolenjska, Primorska and Gorenjska. Therefore, all cream of financial flows and state funds are to be rolled through state institutions and their wedge in Ljubljana. In recent years, the Slovenian government has been increasingly transforming into a Ljubljana government. There's a lot of evidence. I have indicated that practically more than three quarters of Slovenia does not participate in the executive branch. They are also suitable for the highest judicial functions only from the center of Slovenia. Similarly, in funds, foundations and elsewhere and, colleagues and colleagues, we must ask ourselves whether such authority or such a government can represent the interests of the whole of Slovenia. She's never represented them before. The hope of representing them in the future is also weak. Look, the evidence of the Ljubljana government is huge. The transfer of Slovenian power plants to Ljubljana - this is mainly about financial effects, which could otherwise help Maribor from the crisis. That's one thing. The same is true in the design of the second financial pillar. We know that the Prime Minister has promised that this second financial pillar will be in Maribor, now he has changed his position, predicts the sinking of the Maribor insurance company in Triglav and lastly there will be nothing from the Maribor pillar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u3	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u4	Just a word. And the third case is the adoption of a law on dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. It's the same case. These areas are the most affected, and the government is blurring. It absolutely blurs out and prevents at least the damage from being settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u6	There's still a lot of these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much for your introduction to this debate, colleague Jerovšek. He will now have 10 minutes, not more, available to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs Dr Dimovski. Then I will invite representatives of the groups of Members to the floor. Please, first of all, Minister Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Member Jerovšek! First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak more fully about what we are actually doing in the field of social policy and, in particular, what we have done and done in the last period. I am aware that Mr Jerovšek, with his introduction, has also, of course, intervened in areas such as economic policy, regional policy, regional development. However, if you allow me, I would limit myself to the part of which, of course, I am more competent by duty, namely social policy, and especially the part that talks about social pressures in certain parts of Slovenia. What is important, of course, at the outset, is that social security in us is of course an issue that is addressed by all state institutions that can affect the social situation of citizens and citizens. While social security is a broader model of state measures in various areas to ensure social security, it includes health, labour, housing, education and other aspects. At the same time, it is a superior concept of social protection defined by types of services and monetary benefits to groups and individuals who do not have sufficient means of subsistence. A rise in the level of social security is possible only with the integration of social, economic and regional development, as Mr Jerovšek has, of course, stressed. We are aware at this point that social differences and pressures vary from one region to another, but the following points need to be stressed that without the social policy we are leading, these differences will be even greater. Therefore, the provision of social security is one of the main priorities of the government and, of course, I hope, of all Slovenian societies. Accordingly, in 2000, the Government adopted a programme to combat poverty and social exclusion followed by the first report in 2002, which shows that certain legal solutions have been adopted in this case and also relevant programmes. However, what is important is also being drawn up, a common memorandum on social inclusion, which is in the final stage, and which means further implementation of this policy, which shows a direct link with the social inclusion policy in the European Union, which is based on the European social model. Let me say that while the European social model represents a dynamic relationship between economic, employment and social policy. Allow me to briefly summarize individual international comparisons, aware of the fact that statistics can exclude individual parts or segments, but for comparison when we enter the European Union they are not irrelevant. In doing so, we can fully see that the situation is better compared to that of many countries in the European Union. I think this is also due to solidarity and solidarity, which is between Slovenians and Slovenians, and therefore the level of social security according to these data is, of course, higher. I can therefore point out briefly that the system of social protection in Slovenia is in line with the system in the European Union and is adapted to the new situation in Slovenia and legislation in the European Union over the past ten years, and I would also like to point out the global changes surrounding us. In doing so, individual data such as unemployment rates are lower than in the European Union, which means that according to the data of the International Labour Organisation, this figure was 6.4 in Slovenia at the end of 2002 and 7.5 in the European Union. Let me say that, after a registered unemployment rate, this fell from about 15% in 1997 to 14 wholes and something else, to 11.1%, from 95,000 registered unemployed. As the analysis we have carried out has shown, social transfers are also increasingly geared towards lower income groups and, as Swedish experts say, have an effective impact on poverty reduction. Let me also say that it also shows in the area of social partnership with the recently concluded social agreement for the period 2003-2005, Slovenia is therefore falling into a circle of countries with the highest level of agreement between the social partners at the level of similar agreements such as France, Germany, Luxembourg and Ireland. In the area of scholarship policy, the country, with its share in the total amount for this purpose - it is said that about 20 billion in 2003 - provides education and studies to about 54,000 students and students. And there are other comparisons that point essentially to a certain state of affairs. The internationally comparable situation - above all, I am talking about comparability with the countries of the European Union - and the results are rather systematic and also legislatively oriented work. In this area, let me mention only in comparison that over the last few years we have adopted more than a hundred different laws and regulations aimed primarily at regulating the positions and positions of an individual in the social field in terms of adapting the acquis of the European Union. At the same time, in addition to the laws, we have adopted various strategic documents, and since the already mentioned programme against poverty, the national programme for the development of the labour market, the social agreement mentioned, the national programme for the social protection of the elderly, and the national programme for the child and the family, as we have already discussed. It is important that, in addition to the legal bases in Slovenia, there is also a very wide network of social services systems. Here we could say that on the one hand we have a so-called government network of executive organisations, which is made up of social work centres, social work centres, nursing homes, special social security institutions, employment institutions with 13 district services and 62 offices for work. At the same time, Slovenia has developed a number of complementary social protection programmes very rapidly in the last period, most of which are non-governmental organisations. We can say that in Slovenia there are a number of programmes to prevent addictions, home homes, mental health programmes, programmes to reduce social exclusion and so on. When we talk about this, we cannot get past the questions that are the benefits that individuals actually gain. Therefore, in addition to implementing organisations, the remuneration received by individuals and within the Ministry of Labour are also important. In total, these transfers are more than 210 billion and are properly presented in individual reports. Let me just list them: unemployment benefits, student food subsidies, Republic scholarships and other scholarships, family benefits, parental benefits, foster care expenditure, social security benefits, the receipt of war invalids and the rest. However, I would like to say here, given what was said in the introduction to Mr Jerovska's introduction, that one of the main orientations of the Ministry of Labour is in particular the identification of ways and opportunities in the field of employment. Employment and employment are as you thought, of course, one of the main ways for us to reduce social differences and regional differences. Therefore, at the beginning of the mandate, we have already approached the so-called reallocation of resources under the active employment policy in those areas in Slovenia with an average unemployment rate. This policy has proved to be successful, relatively successful because the unemployment rate has gradually decreased, despite the recession surrounding us, particularly in the German market and other export markets. Of course, we would like to do even more, but of course it is a matter of the fiscal sustainability of individual programmes. Let me say, therefore, that in 2003 almost 70 per cent of the total amount of resources allocated to active employment policy was allocated to regions with an average unemployment rate. In particular, Maribor is more than 23 percent of all assets and for 2002 it is an index of the increase in these funds 124, for Pomurje the increase index 170 and so on. In short, we believe that this reallocation of resources in the active employment policy is necessary and important. In Maribor we have thus reduced the unemployment rate and unemployment rate by measures of active employment policy to around 2000 in the area of Maribor, the Podravski region. Let me say that a total of about 20,000 jobs have been opened and 80 000 have been included. Of course, I can continue to say concrete information. If you don't mind, President, just a final thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u9	Just a sentence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u10	It is said that the Ministry responds to the initiatives of the affected and solves problems systematically, taking into account priorities, specific characteristics of each individual, local environment and so on. The Ministry of Labour in particular solves problems, but not create them, and I therefore believe that it will also be in the future, with appropriate policy support such as regional policy, economic policy and other policies, which, of course, can be most effective [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u12	They also reduce unemployment and social distress. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The following will give you the floor as a representative of the government whenever you want and at the end of the debate. Representatives of the parliamentary groups will now be given the floor. First of all, Comrade Podobnik. He will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and behind him, colleague, Master Drobnič, the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we wondered how to take part in this agenda item, given the nature of the business nature of the point itself. In fact, Ambassador Jerovšek focused on the following question: When will the government take a serious approach to the resolution of increasing unemployment and face the deterioration and unpredictability of many areas in Slovenia? On this issue, the Minister answered the questions already at the meeting and today further explained the functioning of his department in this area. On behalf of the Group of Members, I will try to give our view forward. In our view, the fact that Slovenia is entering the European Union is a framework for us called the European Social Model. So, how Slovenia will tackle and deal with the issue of unemployment and even regional development under European rules - this is, in our opinion, also a challenge in this item on the agenda. So, first of all, how to proceed. What was wrong back there, you can talk about it. However, we believe that, above all, this point can be an opportunity, so we can look ahead. Otherwise, it is our basic view that if the current government is sensitive, it is in the area of social policy and social issues. She can't really tell here that she's too sensitive to these questions. It could even be said that sometimes all the money it devotes to this segment is under-control. But it is true that the topic opened by Comrade Jerovšek is still in something else. The last Saturday annex reads in the introduction: "The analysis of the threat posed by Slovenian companies, which was made by economist Janez Prašnikar and Bole, for this occasion by financial minister Dušan Marble, warned that any stronger writing or shock could sink businesses that for various reasons on the brink of survival. At this point, businesses with around 27,000 employees, of course having families, children, are hypothetically at risk of life. If the shocks were stronger, such as the rapid decline in economic growth in the European Union, the number of companies at risk and lost jobs would almost double from the most vital export part of the economy. A large number of new unemployed would be an additional blow to state welfare and over time again through increased taxes for businesses as well." This is a serious analysis and also a serious warning that the topic we are talking about has a very up-to-date reflection also in the most recent analyses made by two eminent Slovenian macroeconomicists. In our opinion - and this has already been said in the introduction by Mr Minister - it is always a multidisciplinary cross-cutting issue, especially within the regions, which cannot be fully addressed if not all those involved are involved. Several sources are responsible for solving this pressing problem, and good inter-ministerial cooperation is therefore very important. At least eight ministries are directly concerned by regional development. At the same time, it is not only cooperation between the departments, but also cooperation between the country, the regions that we already have and whatever they do, the municipalities, the social partners and civil society. A new law on the promotion of coherent regional development, or its addition, provides for the establishment of so-called regional development councils, which will act as the administrative bodies of the development region. These will consist of representatives of four key groups: local communities, employers, workers and the non-governmental sector. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposal to introduce such a body is a positive solution. This body will play a role as negotiator for the provision of financial resources and a role of some kind of intermediary between the government on the one hand and the municipalities and other local partners on the other. The 2003 Regional Development Report prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development and Structural Policy, which is in intergovernmental coordination, states that ministries, in addition to setting horizontal objectives such as increasing competitiveness, will also set regional specific targets to take into account individual characteristics specific to each region. Slovenia can also hope for funding in the coming years by the European Union. In the 2006 budget adopted, it fixed the amount of accession aid. Slovenia expects to receive an estimated €50 million annually for Phare, Sapard and Iso programmes. We must not forget that the comprehensive preparation of projects is very important in all these forms of accession assistance. Measures to promote coherent regional development include, in particular, the areas of economic investment, human resources education, the integration of private, public capital, increased aid for rural development and the resolution of problems in the field of local infrastructure, which is still an extremely pressing problem in some areas. The latter solution should also be sought in redistribution of funds between financially strong and financially poorer municipalities. Furthermore, in our view, it would suggest that the upcoming tax reform should consider introducing reliefs in less developed areas. If we take a closer look at the region, which was the reason for the question of the post-mail question, my colleague Jerovska, it is the problem of the region of Zasavska and the problem of high unemployment. This, however, declined since 1998 in the first half of 2002, then increased again and was 15.1% according to the latest data. The biggest problem in this region is the unfavourable structure of the economy, the relatively uneducated human potential and relatively underdeveloped infrastructure. But, of course, there are differences within the region itself. Many businesses in this region are facing difficulties and it is realistic to expect job cuts to continue. We therefore support the active involvement of the country in order to improve the situation, as has already been the case, by setting horizontal and regional specific objectives. According to the Regional Strengthening Programme at local level, this is 2000, this is the Phare programme, mentioned two objectives of the economic restructuring of the Sava region. The first is the development of infrastructure for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the second, which is directly linked to today's topic and to the question of the Member of Parliament, Jerovska, is the improvement of the conditions for creating new jobs in Zasavje. This is discussed in the report on regional development, which I mentioned earlier, for 2003. So specifically on improving the conditions for creating new jobs in Zasavje. Perhaps the Minister could comment on the role of his director in the implementation of this project. This is the Phare project and it is related to the issue of new jobs in Zasavje. It should be pointed out that one of the elements, the cohesion elements of the European Union and its enlargements is precisely the importance of coherent regional development. The European Commission has prepared a second annual progress report on economic and social cohesion, and this is one of the important documents, as it analyses the current situation and trends in regional disparities both in the existing EU 15 and in the EU after enlargement, the EU 25, and this is a situation that still concerns us. The envisaged enlargement of the European Union, according to experts, will have an impact on the future of cohesion policy. There are three indicators that will co-form this. The first is the difference between the economic situation of the Member States and the second is the geographical shifts in the pattern of that distinction and the third, at least at the beginning, the poorer employment situation. However, when setting future budget lines for economic and social cohesion, we expect the European Union to take account of the level of economic and social disparities that will take place after enlargement and to prepare itself for a long and intensive effort to reduce it. Slovenia has a difficult task here to answer the question of the so-called statistical effect. The EU 25, which will somehow reduce the average gross national product, will particularly harm Slovenia. As Slovenia is the most developed country to join the EU and will be affected by the so-called statistical effect, it is therefore very important how we, as a country, will also negotiate on the question of how many cohesion regions the Republic of Slovenia will form in the future. According to the information we have prepared for the preparation of this agenda item, we have therefore examined, as we say, how Slovenia will successfully negotiate with the Directorate and some Commissioners in the European Union in the following year or two under the Structural and Cohesion Funds. If I finish. The prosperity in the individual regions of our country represents a very important internal political challenge at this time and also a task that we will devote to it, both in our parliamentary group and in our party, but I am convinced that in all Slovenian political parties as well as in civil society. Knowing the specificities of the region is a prerequisite, for European practice teaches us that examples of good practice, "examples of good practice", which could have produced remarkable results in one country, unfortunately cannot be passed on and applied to the situation in another, perhaps even a neighbouring country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. A colleague of mags. Drobnic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, after which I will give the floor to my colleague Barovic. First, my fellow magician. It's a trifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Well-known representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group on Social Issues in the Regions, the answer to Mr Jerovska's question, which was not appropriate or sufficient by the Government. The social issue is the result of social policy and certainly the result of other policies and, therefore, it is also a reflection on whether or not the interpretation of this is necessary in a number of ways. Thus, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I will also present why this social issue is expressed as it is in Slovenia and why in individual regions. First of all, this is a way of managing state and public affairs. It is a well-known fact that the differences between regions in the economic power of the population are increasing in infrastructure development. This was stated by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and this was clear at the beginning of the mandate of this or this four-year government period and unfortunately these differences are not shrinking but are increasing. Centralisation and concentration of the country, its services, offices and institutions. The projection of the establishment of regions may also, perhaps, increase concentration at the regional level and leave rural and other areas at the side, leaving citizens disengagement, causing them certain costs, for citizens to be able to provide their services that are urgently needed. Surely the social sphere, social policy is the strongest such factor and also an indicator of the problem in the regions. Social policy may and is probably best illustrated through relations with marginal categories. What kind of policy does it lead? If we take one of these categories, these are disabled people, and look at it through the time dimension, we can figure out that there's been a catastrophic shift in this area. Let's see data: About 60,000 people were disabled on the labour market ten years ago. The same ratio in the labour market, as in society, is about 7%. At the time, there were about 2,000, 2,500 unemployed people with disabilities. Now there are perhaps 40,000 of them on the market, but more than 20,000 are unemployed. Unemployment has increased by more than ten. During this time, unemployment in Slovenia declined slightly - just the opposite picture. This is a demonstration of marginalisation, centralisation of the country and problem-solving, or growth of problems, social issues. During the period already, several documents were adopted by the government of Drnovška, the promotion of employment for disabled persons, the vocational rehabilitation programme by 2002. These two documents were in the drawers. They have not achieved implementation, so any programmes in this area do not make sense, as it is necessary to implement those still in drawers. Social transfers are ineffective and unsuccessful in reducing social disparities. It is known that these analyses have also shown that social transfers in Slovenia do not adequately reduce social differences, but even increase them in some segments, so they are a generator of social distribution, they are counterproductive. In Slovenia there are no more laws on exceptional tax exemptions, interestingly enough that unions no longer compete for them. In the New Slovenia Group we have introduced this law, which aims at the most problematic categories, which are socio-economically problematic. They have similar arrangements in Germany and other countries. That those with minimum income are not concerned with the burden of income. The Constitutional Law on Income, the deadline for lodging or the adoption of legislation has already expired. This national council can't find the time to go after this marriage. This is once again a law by which we must enforce reliefs, so the Constitutional Court says, for families with a larger number of members, because current policies or current reliefs are not appropriate. He could touch the Roma and other categories. There are problems in rural areas, conflicts, because the country has failed to ensure integration in cooperation with local communities. 95% of Roma are unemployed. These are sources of conflict in the field due to various crimes, the grey economy and so on. A programme for professional rehabilitation and labour integration of Roma is in place, which is not being implemented. Social transfers across the third sector. I said that these social transfers, although they are relatively high in the overall share of budgetary expenditure, do not work effectively. The third sector, which could be a worthy source and a suitable source for reducing differences, is increasing this. In a way, let's see. There are foundations where some lobbies have the most important powers from the previous system, including the so-called previous sphere of interest, which has benefited in the field of health, leisure, tourism, the great capacity that they now give to their people for free. The ordinary citizens do not have this entry, and these transfers are also enriched by a derogation from contributions or a derogation from taxes. Employment. Official data on unemployment, Mr Minister, indeed the one about registered unemployment, of course, is not available to the public, says. You mentioned data on, that is, measuring survey unemployment, but of course, registered unemployment is not applicable. Registered unemployment, that's clearly growing. I also asked you a question that I have not yet received an answer to: What is it with this special group on the special record, whether it is considered registered unemployment and whether it is receiving active employment policy measures? So I didn't get an answer. This special category should be counted as unemployed, regardless of the fact that you have regulated this by means of a sub-law and deleted them from official statistics. Long-term unemployment, particularly in some centres, has increased by 50%. Long-term unemployment means hopelessness for people to come to the labour market again. So, on average, in Slovenia, more than 50% are long-term unemployed. By what measures we can save them, of course, we have measures, public works, but, as I see, public works are falling; they are focused on the long-term unemployed, those with a poorer perspective, and in regions, in areas where social problems or problems of unemployment are particularly severe. In some centres, more than 30% of young people are unemployed, and this is also an impossibility. This is led by regions such as Velenje, Trbovlje and Murska Sobota. What will the government offer these people? Employment programmes are falling. Given that the number of unemployed is increasing, given that employment programmes are increasing in a cost-effective way, it should also be appropriate to increase employment programmes. They don't, they stay nominally at the same level, and they're actually decreasing as a percentage. We can say that the Amsterdam Treaty, which focused on employment programmes, is still in place, particularly in its implementation. The European Union or countries have adopted and monitored specific employment programmes. In the fourth pillar and in the last guidelines it is particularly explained how countries should deal with categories of goods, those that are difficult to find in the labour market that are excluded. In this context, some programmes have been prepared, which are still in drawers. 10,000 people with disabilities are on a special record excluded from the market. Why is unemployment increasing in Slovenia? In the first place, it is definitely due to economic and financial policy, investment policy. However, labour market flows also have a major impact. When we passed the Labour Relations Act, we warned you in the opposition that we would not achieve much simply by protecting rights. It would be much better if Slovenia decided on a balanced form between protection of rights, protection against forgiveness and incentives. This area of incentives to return to employment for, for example, mothers after birth are too small or absent. This could release this relationship, increase the flexible market and, as you know, is known in the world and in us, in theory and practice, that a flexible labour market increases employment, increases investment, increases business decision-making for business expansion. Entrepreneurship in the economy, how does that affect you? Investments in our country decreased by 40 per cent in the first four, five months, in the first four months of this year, compared to last year. This is a report for this period. What happened? Of course, you can say that last year, due to some purchases, the investment was higher, I don't know, some purchases were made in the last year, bigger. But this is the trend. The question is what the government has done for what programmes, what legislation it is preparing, what incentives it is to increase investment policy. It also reduces social problems. Increased number of jobs. The measures taken by the active employment policy help to increase the number of jobs. That's familiar. They may also reduce structural unemployment. They are significantly more important in the area of financial and economic policy. Due to restrictions on investment we do not acquire new technological innovations, or new technology does not come to Slovenia, transfer of innovation and knowledge, and therefore no added value. The country is therefore not interested in investing domestically as foreign investors. Problems are in business premises, building permits, bureaucratic procedures. At the time of Drnovsk's government, was an anti-biocratic programme not adopted? Did we not have a Special Minister for the implementation of this programme in the Cabinet? Where is it? To increase investment in order to become an entrepreneurship company to open up the possibility for Slovenian entrepreneurs. Labour-intensive industries, in the past system, have come to life mainly in rural areas. Now this area is covered by disaster, decay. Two programs were adopted. Textile-dressing and footwear, that is to say, a shoe-wearing restructuring programme in terms of adaptation, integration into European integration. These two programmes have foreseen, not as is now the case, the transition of redundant workers or workers after bankruptcy to open unemployment, but restructuring to other sectors. The unions themselves have raised their hands and are just waiting for these 18 or 25 thousand unemployed to pass through, employees, currently employed, poorly paid, or even no paid workers, into open unemployment. And this will be done mainly in rural areas. So these two programs have not been implemented and are not being implemented. However, I doubt that they will be realized during the remainder of this term. The national austerity scheme, which is intended to lower the price of housing, improve the standard, improve the possibility of family policy, family. What happened? The forecast, a 20% reduction in housing prices, has turned into an increase in prices. The savings scheme doesn't work. This reduces the perspective for young people. During the two electoral periods, the Liberal Democracy started with a 4,000-bed program for students. I hope you don't go to third. You didn't make it happen. Now, you're saying that by taxing a student's job, that this will come true. He won't. We are interested in how business and economic investment in depressed areas will increase. And then, on the other hand, we have stories about Elan, we have not objected to recovery being done on the basis of good economic programmes, but not in the way that this story happened. I'm not going to repeat billions, which has been repeated many times, but something else. The workers of Elena came to see me in secret, so without any knowledge, they came to see me. They said they did not hope to launch any initiatives, as unemployment could follow. The union is set according to the standard of management and the story goes cheerfully forward. The so-called free school also has a major impact on social issues, i.e. social problems across regions. Fewer young people in poor families are able to learn because more and more things need to be paid. Their schools are becoming less accessible due to severe distribution and, in particular, more demanding education. Unfortunately, the scholarship policy has entered a dead end, although I must mention that in the previous system, however politically or otherwise inappropriate, it had a scholarship policy. That's for sure. Even in the area of health, health care is also becoming less accessible to those who cannot afford it. The waiting species during this three-year period have increased their waiting types, increased their losses, the dissatisfaction of people with services, more expensive medicines and, on the other hand, increased profits in the production and distribution of medicines. Instead of predicting a new reform, it would be wise to implement the reform that is still in the drawer that Mr Keber has prepared for his rule. And agriculture, the collapse of agriculture in the countryside. Here are some indicators, poverty, and fewer farmers living by activity. Certainly it is not good for a farmer to get for a cow of 20,000 tolars if he sells it, of all those discounts for transport, for a review etc. [[..]] Instead of giving concessions to small farmers in order to develop rural areas, they obtained a concession from a large company that creates enormous capital. The aid in the regions was set up several times in the way of building networks, chambers of commerce, CMG CRPOV Chamber of Commerce, each in its own way. The regional development centres are now opening up. In the New Slovenia Group, we fear that this will be another one-day fly, which will be intended only to employ some bureaucrats, but that the basic assistance for the development of these regions will never come to those who need it to develop investment, to develop entrepreneurial initiatives or craft initiatives. So that remains a serious problem. In Slovenia, unfortunately, social distribution is increasing in an illegal and illegal way, which means that the system is unfair and this government, with its systems, does not reduce injustice, illegality, the increase in decomposition, but even increases, achieves the opposite effect, thus the results of the Government do not have the right solutions, it will be necessary to wait for another government to perform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Mr Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and his colleague Jerovšek of the Socialist Party Group. Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues! Yesterday we talked about public wages and about people who have a million, two or three earned or unearned, and I applied for yesterday's conversation, and I gave up the conversation because I saved myself for today when we talk about people who don't have wages. I am to a large extent guilty or sorry that we have gathered here today and I am Mr Joseph Jerovšk for the fact that this item on the agenda is grateful, although I would very much like to see it, this is my opinion and the opinion of the Slovenian National Party to replace the Minister of the Economy or to be in charge with the Minister of Finance. I'll speak very specifically, from practical cases. And if I'm going to mention names like Pekko, Mechanika, don't count that this is just Pekko from Trbovlje but Mechanika from Trbovlje, but let each of you find your own place a company that has such a name and is in a similar position. Very practical, very concretely, I'm going to draw up the current situation. However, when it happened in Pecko, it happened, just as it did in any company at any end, but the continuation of the story has a very interesting dissipation. After an immediate reaction, I suggested that this facility be rented to the municipality of Trbovlje in order not to fail. We did not come to this because in a meeting with the SRD and representatives of this country, the government, it was said that the SRD would settle obligations and claims with Pek and then the state would give ownership, rent or even its own facility to the municipality of Trbovlje. After three months, nothing happened. According to my letter to the Minister of Economy, the Ministry of Economy claimed that everything had been done. At that time, we had a potential investor who verified the letter of intent. It was our fault, of course, that he wasn't serious. Well, how serious this investor is, tell me! Today is six months from this, it is written on July 15th, we do not have this facility for rent or for rent today. Yes, an unrestrained investor would be if a million euros of investment were still waiting for this facility today - yes! The sequel to this story. The SRD is in liquidation and has to pay its obligations to the State. Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have a government decision to agree that this property will once be municipal and so on. It says, however, that the SRD and Pekko will settle for this mutual liability facility and claims at fair market value of EUR 236 million or EUR 26 000. I have seen this object; if this object is worth this money, then I will be the Pope! This facility was robbed to the end, even toilet toilets, pipes, sinks, everything! The facility is empty, destroyed! If this facility is worth this money, I will be the Pope! Who's gonna make it? This facility, I think, is worth less than half of what I think it is - but let independent evaluators do it. The SRD will settle its obligations, save 236 million, and Pekko will earn a little - on the account of 134 workers from Trbovlje or from anywhere. But we don't have the facility yet. When the workers went on the road before they went, it happened to Mechanics. When the three owners bought the property in no way and overnight, from Friday to Saturday and Saturday to Sunday, despite my personal warning to the police, they took all the machines to the southern republics. These three owners are now walking peacefully through Trbovjevi, the workers are on the road, not even as valuable, these workers, so that these three owners, after an official bankruptcy or any other procedure, lead them to at least social care. No, they took the machines quietly to the southern republics, there are no machines, people walk quietly. These three owners. Mechanika is not known if she's in bankruptcy, forced to settle where she is. But nothing happens. And when the workers went on the road, it was forbidden for the workers of the Mechanics to attend a protest meeting because it was a political meeting. Whoever attended this meeting and who listened to him did not hear a word about any party and no politics. The names of those who have been judged guilty of such an event. People seek employment for themselves, as they know and know. Personally, with my friends, I have made an effort and I can show the list, I think that the 13 Slovenian companies I asked if they are willing to cooperate in any way, to invest in the Rippers. In the facilities we have at our disposal. Of these thirteen, half of the facilities were not suitable, and half of them told me peacefully, one of them is a Ripper, and runs a successful company: "Thank you very much. We're building factories in Bosnia. We are building a new factory in Russia, we are building a new factory in Serbia." This is the relationship of the Slovenian economy and the desire to develop the Slovenian economy. They're building in Bosnia. Why, I asked. Because the European Union is coming and taxes are coming. Why would they pay me taxes? In Bosnia there is a cheaper labour force, we will not pay taxes, we will have double profits. That's the truth. That's the micro truth. People get a job in black. Inspectors who are responsible for overseeing such employment see this and know it. Because they know otherwise that these people, by the way, there are 1,600 unemployed, the working population is 6,500, a simple chain calculation shows that the unemployment rate is 23 percent. I don't know how this 15. These people have to live. And they're going to work on gray. The inspection sees it, no one reacts. Workers are not social workers, they are not health insurance, employers who work grey do not pay taxes to the state. But it's happening in front of all of us, and it's calm. We have just heard, although very professional and excellently prepared speech by Mr Janez Podobnik, but such structural, regional, long-term, short-term, local, such and other development programmes I have heard, I have seen nothing. When the mine closes because it is such a decision of the state, and it is a state-owned enterprise, the restructuring of these people, the search for new investments, the search for markets, the search for thousands and some programs, plans, plans, activities, I don't know, municipalities. In doing so, I must say, respected colleagues and colleagues, when Pekko happened, was the minister who was here, the first, the first, who called, that means fair and said, "We will book, I think 90 million dollars for non-refundable aid, to save the workers." He was the first. And he's booked the funds. And he's booked them today. It's for his own good, and it's to his credit. Seriously. But, he warns me, he says, "I can't hold these funds just for Trbovlje," and I understand it and honestly, because such and other unemployed people throughout Slovenia are a lot. That's why I'm grateful to him, not because he's here right now, because he's not even on a sad bench, but this ministry has done its best to help, and I believe it will help. But there's something I'm afraid of. I'll be here until the end. As the object was said, the congregation was already in possession and could dispose of it. The court doesn't have it yet. And what's gonna happen? I understand the Ministry, the Ministry will put these funds in place where they are needed, because these funds are intended to put out the social fire. And when that happens, I'm sure the Ministry of Economy will give the municipality 236 million worth of property and use. When we don't have an investor who's gone, or a Ministry's reserved funds to help the investor with grants, the congregation will get at a book value of 236 million, a 100 million-dollar property, and it'll get it to keep it empty. And, of course, she went on to look for potential investors when the facility had already collapsed for seven months. I asked for the first month, "the object is collapsing," "let it go." These are, honourable Members and Members, some of the truths we have all the arguments and evidence for. But this is not Peko Trbovlje and Mechanika Trbovlje, these are companies from your places, your ends, and not least there are people. And people say to me, "We got 43,000 tolars of support, now we have 49,000, but I don't want them. They say, "I don't want them, I want to work, but donkeys for 45 thousand tolars a thousand wages, I don't want you two years of agony." And people want to work, they want to. We are alone in the congregation, and many among you also believe, successfully, I hope, that this moment has already been found by two investors. Despite the fact that we have nothing in this country, sectors, I do not know any departments, offices in charge of this country, but to this day no one has cooperated and helped to find investors, either domestic or foreign. In order to create employment. Why a job? In order not to give almost 80% of the municipal budget for social subsidies, municipal subsidies, children's documents, subsidies for kindergartens and so on. And there's something else about it, and then I'm done. It's a real story. Person x, who on top of everything is not Slovenian nationality, lives in Cyprus, in a villa, checked, and has a yacht. This person, I don't know how she bought six old apartments in Nasipje. [[?]] in the Rippers and this person x gave these six apartments to his fellow countrymen, friends who are of course all unemployed. And when I noticed that I was paying a social subsidy for these six people and that money was going to that gentleman x in Koper, who had a yacht and a villa, I turned to the competent authority with the competent services. Do you know what kind of answer I got? That I have a duty to comply with the law, that the law stipulates that I have to pay these unemployed people a subsidy, even though the person x gets to Koper, if I do not do anything, and the one who serves to sit on the yacht, unless I pay this subsidy to negotiate criminally. That was the answer. I have this proof, too, of professional service. That's what's going on, ladies and gentlemen, and that's what I wanted to say today. I'm sorry, I may not have raised my voice on purpose, maybe I'm a little shaken, but I'm experiencing it, and these are the truths I can prove. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Comrade Jerovšek, you will now present the position of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, behind you, colleague Potrč. First, Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Even in our parliamentary group, we are surprised, disappointed that although Minister Dimovski himself points out that this issue, which is crucial in Slovenia, would require the responses of the Minister of Economy and Minister of Regional Development and another minister, none of them is sitting here to listen to the stories and debates of the 40 Members. Do you think 40 Members apply for a topic that is not the most problematic? So far they have not, and I am aware that Members feel what is going on. Your Honor! Yesterday, a new generation of young people, young people, capable people, ambitious people who could build the future of Slovenia with their knowledge. Some have achieved brilliant results, but because of the location of their home, they are already sentenced to unequal baselines. Such people who can develop new products will not be able to achieve these levels because of the threat and because of the social layers they come from. He began to warn Prime Minister Rob about blood and tears. Blood and tears after 12 years of independent Slovenia. Churchill promised blood and tears to the English in the first year of World War II in an exhausted country. And our president promises his citizens blood and tears now. We have given timely warning to the Social Democratic Party about the problem of the developmental underdevelopment of some regions. In the course of the budget proposals, we have tried to provide these regions with more development money, including more resources to direct the communities in these areas, which have also proved to be the most effective in the area of incentives and development. Unfortunately, our warnings and proposals have not been adopted. The time and response of Members today have shown that our proposals were correct. Three years ago, in 2000, we tabled a proposal for a law on increasing employment in municipalities with an average unemployment rate. The law provided for effective development incentives, redistribution of development funds and tax incentives for investors to open up new jobs in regions with over-average unemployment. The assessment of the situation is a very thorough analysis and also a forecast of what happened today. However, if the law were supported, it would allow for a real active employment policy, which is misleading the government in its current policy. Almost half of Slovenia today would not be sobbing. Of course, this makes the cynicism of Minister Petrinova even more unacceptable, which has led the delegation of labourless workers astray by the claim that the opposition does not allow the resolution of the problems in Zasavje. For several years in the Social Democratic Party, we have been drawing attention to a completely inappropriate economic policy and to the inappropriate composition of the economic pillar. We need to ask ourselves how the problems of the regions are going elsewhere, how the government is dealing with them and how comparative countries are. Unfortunately, we see a great gap between words and actions, as the distribution of Slovenia continues and some regions are increasingly lagging behind. Therefore, it is absolutely current and necessary that the first requirement of workers from Trbovlje and with them most Slovenes should be drawn up to assess the work and responsibility of the competent state officials in the government and ministries, as well as the management of companies responsible for the collapse of the mass of Slovenian companies, high unemployment and the cost of taxpayers' money. You can't write it down any better than the workers wrote it down. In the end, I'd say the following or invite you. Respectable authority, respected authorities, return billions of money that has been spilled through corruption, through Elan, through awards, billions, criminal awards, through SIB, through the Slovenian Development Society! Put them back through the budget! Take them from your cliental anointed ones and put this money into the development of these deprived regions! Give them to congregations that can care for their environment! Let's stop talking, let's be pragmatic, operational, let's do this, not deceive the Slovenian public. If you do that, the wagon will come out of the mud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The text is now given by my colleague Potrč on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by her colleague Pozsončeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The successful development policy of a society is particularly reflected in the situation and opportunities of people. For us, the United List of Social Democrats and for the European Social Democratic Party family, this is a fundamental criterion for its evaluation. We are pleased that, with the specific activities of the Party of European Socialists, whose full-fledged membership is the United List of Social Democrats, it has also been possible to include in the draft new Constitution of a united Europe all the most important objectives and methods that thus assess development arising from the human situation represent and ensure. The European Union's objective is thus not only a highly competitive market economy, but also full employment and social progress, combating social exclusion and discrimination and promoting social justice, equality, solidarity. Therefore, the implementation of the social market economy model, which requires the co-dependence of development, employment and social policy, which pays particular attention to addressing interregional differences and protecting the environment. These principles and those objectives are also essential for us in assessing the situation in Slovenia. Any serious and responsible debate, any warning of the weaknesses and inconsistencies based on facts, but not on the cheap demagogies, which are particularly useful on such issues, is therefore necessary and useful for us. But especially in dealing with these issues, which concern the situation of people, their personal hardships and feelings of hopelessness, must be approached objectively and extremely. We will not change the situation with any untruths or exaggerations. Agreements on a more effective policy are needed. And that's the first thing we want to stress today. Secondly, which also embodies today's debate, the issue of policies that can and must ensure the resolution of unemployment, social and development differences. In the United List of Social Democrats, we are convinced that appropriate development and regional policies have the same important role as employment policy and social policy. We are convinced that a more ambitious development policy needs to be addressed with greater concern. Slovenia must increase the rate of growth of gross social product, in particular to increase the volume of production and services in the real sector, as without this it will not be possible to provide new jobs and resources which would also allow the necessary extent to develop science, education, culture as a basis for an equal competition with the most developed countries of the world, and not sufficient resources for pension, health, family and social protection that will ensure decent life for people. Productive efforts to generate higher income are therefore, above all, productive, but not just a debate on how we will share what we have created. When we talk about the next policy, which we stress in particular, this is about regional policy, we would like to stress that regional policy, unfortunately, was not the real priority of self-sustaining Slovenia. It was only three years ago that, despite many warnings and criticisms that we have made from our party, we passed a law on regional development. For at least two years, we needed and received information about the establishment of the necessary institutions in accordance with the law. We may now begin to expect more favorable results. Interregional differences are very large in Slovenia. Too large, especially if we take into account the relative smallness of our territory, the proximity of these regions and the number of Slovenian inhabitants. And lately, unfortunately, they haven't been shrinking. We therefore believe that a successful regional policy must be given more attention. In doing so, we are convinced that more policies are needed to achieve this objective, not just employment and social policy policies. In particular, the activity of the newly established ministry, as well as the Ministry of Economy, is important. One of the measures that could help reduce regional differences would also be the regionalisation of Slovenia. For this reason, the establishment of landscapes, their creation, as a second stage of local self-government, is a necessary lever for us to be a more successful regional policy. Unfortunately, in this area, we speak more as if we had achieved results, and unfortunately we have not been able to reach agreement on amending the Constitution to ensure more successful regionalisation. I think we could have done more this way, too. Less talking and pointing to weaknesses, more with concrete actions. Indeed, the analysis of conduct is one that points to the true results. With regard to the Ministry of Labour's conduct, as already mentioned by Dr Dimovski, it is correct to say that there are data on this issue that, in the field of active employment policy, far from the resources given, this ministry has focused on the regions where unemployment is the biggest problem. In 2003, more than 17 billion funds are allocated to active employment policies: 68% of these funds go to regions with an average unemployment rate, including public works programmes in these regions involving more than 75% of the total number of people and 71% of those in the co-financing measure. As a result, the number of unemployed in some regions decreased faster than in the most developed regions; most in the Maribor region - by more than 2 000. Such a policy, although good and commendable of course, does not solve all problems, this once again confirms our conclusion that only the common effects of many policies, especially regional and economic ones, can guarantee a higher employment policy that solves these problems. We therefore stress that the funds envisaged so far for the active employment policy of the current unemployment problem cannot, in my opinion, be solved, especially for the longer term cycle of unemployed and more difficult people, without additional resources from the State, without specific programmes for them related to employment and economic and development policies, we will not be able to employ them. For them to leave for retirement, they should wait another 10 years or more, due to the loss of work, because they are more difficult to get a job, and they are in the most difficult social situation, not only social ones, but also the human situation is unacceptable to them because they have worked 20, 25 or more years, but now they do not know about their perspective. Therefore, their pressures cannot be included in any statistics, although Slovenia has successfully developed. They cannot be expected to agree to or even understand the real development problems and the harshness of the market economy. It is and will be Slovenia, if there is no better solution to the distresses, a criminal and non-social state. We therefore propose that we also focus on these problems, agree on these specific programmes and anticipate the necessary resources for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Colleague Maria Possonec will present the views of the parliamentary group of nationalities for her, the last of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues, fellow Members! Unemployment is an indicator of the economic and social image of an area. The data on Pomour are sufficiently eloquent and suggest that Slovenia has fallen in the area of promoting more coherent regional development. This is not a good trip for the European Union, especially for Pomurje, where we have the highest unemployment rate and a large number of families living on the poverty line. There is a lot of covert unemployment in those people who are registered as agricultural workers. Many people who are deleted from the official unemployment records and are shown and not shown in the official data of the employment agency. And we have major problems with restructuring agricultural and textile activities. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are significant differences within individual regions. It should be noted that the registered unemployment rate in the municipality of Lendava is more than 20%. Such a situation is characteristic of the entire national mixed area, and under such conditions members of Hungarian nationality also live. Look at the data from the last list. The population is declining and ageing. Young people have to leave these places because there are no jobs. The number of Hungarian nationalities has decreased dramatically. The economic and social situation in this area promotes assimilation. The health status of the population is worse than elsewhere in Slovenia, mortality is higher. Schooling opportunities after high school are minimal. There are no such schools in Pomour and the economic situation of the population limits the possibility of education in other places. The Slovenian Constitution states that we are a social state. Such a country, however, should be more concerned with fairness and about the quality of life of all its citizens, including the Pomurians, with economic efficiency. With appropriate measures, assimilation could be stopped or accelerated. Unfortunately, that's the last thing we do today. Let's speed up the assimilation. It is not the right approach to address employment and unemployment policy alone, we are talking only about the consequences of inefficiency in the whole range of promoting the coherence of our regional development, which is influenced by almost all the ministries in the field, in particular the Ministry for more coherent regional development, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health and could continue to do so. In my opinion, all these ministries and the whole government should invest more effort and energy and money in order to change things. Perhaps it is already too late, for at the time of the entry into the European Union, a number of farmers and small entrepreneurs will perish in Pomour. In a few years' time, employment problems will be smaller because there will simply be no job seekers. Is that our goal? They'll be moving out of this region sooner. At the expense of employment policy, I do not have a lot of comments. The measures at first sight seem good, they are certainly European, they solve some problems. Nevertheless, we cannot be satisfied because they do not take into account the specific problems of individual regions such as Pomurje. The Employment Service became the largest company in Pomour. It is not effective enough, which is the responsibility of the competent ministry. It is not enough to deal only with the issue of more difficult employees, it is necessary to help businesses to maintain jobs while developing their competitive capacity. This requires more attention and cooperation between ministries, more money and a sense of responsibility. I call on the Ministry and the Government to take specific measures for the Pomurje area and to devote money to putting the real foundations for the development of this area before joining the European Union, and to lay the conditions for quality of life. By the way, I haven't said anything new, everyone has the opportunity to ask a question, I'm calling on the government, but for now I haven't, I mean, interested in solving the problem in Pomurje.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party and its colleague, Krebsova. We will then conclude a presentation of our views and go to the debate of Members and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the debate on such a pressing issue as unemployment and the necessary measures taken by the State to reduce it, it is first of all important to note the centralisation of capital, political, economic and financial power in the Republic of Slovenia, which has led to the fact that in Slovenia almost no longer we can talk about the rich middle and poor, but only about the central layer that resides in Ljubljana, its surroundings, and others who do not have this happiness to live in the capital and benefit from all the benefits of much greater employment opportunities, twice as much as three times the pay, regulated transport infrastructure, quality educational institutions, housing and could still be listed. We all know that the gap between the centre and the periphery is large so that it will not be eliminated in the short term even by the province, which the government has failed to establish in the last few years. What is left of 1.7 million people who do not have the same opportunities as those who live closer to the centre of power because of centralist politics? Let them drive to work from Prekmurje to 200 km away Ljubljana, educate and leave the local environment and further elevate the capital's human resources potential, thereby further affecting the local economy, which is experiencing increasing human resources problems. Why are we witnessing workers' forgiveness mainly in the periphery in the last 20 years? Social transfers to the poor are indeed worth more than ten billion tolars, but we all know that this is due to a huge number of socially disadvantaged people who do not have a significant support for the life and survival of family members. The solution is therefore mainly in employment, in order to enable the state to provide the conditions for work and for this work to pay. Therefore, all strategies, which only short-term alleviate social unrest and thus the agony of the unemployed, place them in the indefinite near future and do not mean much, require only a great deal of money, and the effects, as we have seen, are very questionable. It is unreasonable that the government does not promote employment in the economy, but will increasingly burden it with taxes, artificially buys social peace and does not solve the problem in its essence. This is in coordination with the government itself. An uncoordinated approach by the competent ministries to promote employment results in a situation such as that of the economy being challenged by the State, not providing it with assistance in development projects, not providing payment discipline to the extent that, in the end, state grants are no longer a solution. In this way, the government saves money and increases social transfers to the unemployed and takes care of them, and the employment plans given to the Employment Office are prepared. But what helps the employment plans of a 20 - year - old textile worker if the only textile company in her place went bankrupt? On the other hand, with appropriate investments in new economic capacities, investors face bureaucratic obstacles, difficulties in obtaining municipally regulated land and other obstacles encountered both in administrative units and in other state institutions. We can recall how the country reacted in the case of interested BMW investors at the burning site of the former Darkness. Instead of accepting investors with their hands open, it would be "Grand field" [[?]] investment, as they provided jobs that would socially strengthen the whole of Eastern Slovenia, the government traded and let go of a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and, of course, investors did not wait and ask for their capital elsewhere. The government can also continue to work on writing new employment strategies, spending money on bullish social assistance and giving false hope to the unemployed to do something for them. A coherent regional development, the repeatedly sung priority of the ruling coalition in practice, exists only on paper again. In cooperation with the local economy, regional development agencies have already drawn up various development programmes and the government does not allocate sufficient resources in the budget to implement them. Despite the law adopted to promote coherent regional development and the fact that co-financing by the State is a condition for obtaining funds from the European Union. It is obvious that even when it is necessary to ensure minimum co-financing of developmental economic projects, the government does not have all the efforts and expectations of the economy and, above all, of the workers in the economy. The co-financing of local scholarship funds, as one of several times, in this National Assembly, of these projects, where the state could help the economy and, above all, the young people in education, is still not in place. Therefore, those rare companies that have large human resources needs for highly educated professionals are experiencing difficulties in obtaining staff. Although many local communities and local economies have already expressed their willingness to co-finance three-partite scholarships, the state is still trading and does not provide funds, and young people, in particular, are still leaving with the belly for bread and intellectual poverty, the brain drain, is continuing. We are entering the European Union next year. The needs for educated staff in a much more developed European economy are enormous, and the government has still not produced any programmes to convince young people that the acquired knowledge is worth using at home in Slovenia, which is understandable. Through studies they break through without scholarships, wages in the economy are miserable and see absolutely no difference except that of the amount of salary between finding work in Ljubljana, New Town or going from Tolmin to live and work in Brussels. The outflow of educated staff from local communities will thus affect not only the municipalities but also the country. Therefore, in the Party of Youth Slovenia, we note that, unless courageous and concrete steps are taken immediately in this area, Slovenia will soon be a cheap country, despite the fact that it is studying over 100,000 students each year on university programmes. As long as the unemployed have an overly high proportion of young job seekers, as long as the regions with twice or even three times the unemployment rate and as long as the educated rural staff have the only employment alternative possible service in Ljubljana, we can say that the employment policies and strategies that the government is preparing or implementing are poor, and despite the huge resources it uses for them, do not produce the expected results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u27	Colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and conclude a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! Social threats and problems of different developed regions The Liberal Democracy solves daily, with a great sense of social inclusion and justice between citizens and citizens. However, we are particularly careful to monitor the effectiveness of budgetary resources aimed at achieving these objectives. Although statistical indicators show positive results and that public funds are well engaged, it is right to ask ourselves daily whether we can achieve even better effects and whether we are adapting quickly enough to changes in society. The best practices of developed European countries are available to us, only in politics and in society as a whole, we must patiently agree on priorities, on the engagement of limited public funds and properly assess that we will achieve the ever-increasing higher and comprehensive prosperity of Slovenia and Slovenia. We believe that, and we know how to encourage such a social environment, which encourages us to acquire new skills that will generate economic growth, increase the employment rate and social inclusion of the majority of the working population, and consequently improve the quality of life of everyone we represent here. In the Liberal Democracy, we are aware that ideas about the future have a profound impact on the subjective origins of an individual and thus on his functioning in the present. The offer of a policy that manages public funds must therefore be inclusive, feasible and within the scope of the option; this is the only way to attract as many people as possible. The concept of a balanced society could revive a collective and individual spirit for common benefits, so it is right to unify ourselves on the issues that we are dealing with today and thus draw the best possible direction for future development. We need to answer three questions: firstly, whether we have managed to increase economic growth, raise employment rates and establish a fair level of social security; secondly, in keeping with the principle of solidarity, we have managed to locate more resources in areas facing major development problems; and thirdly, whether we have matured to the point that, in our institutional framework, we are able to incorporate modern European principles, in particular the principle of subsidiarity and partnership, so, as we have heard many times now, the centralised authority of work has been able to cancel and decide on active development policies to leave to local actors, which is the best knowledge of specific problems in these environments. Or, in other words, whether we are able to take responsibility for development to a regional or local level. We also need two-thirds of Parliament's support for such decisions. However, the opposition does not share an opinion with us, and we are deeply convinced that the partnership between the state, local and regional actors, the private sector and civil society affects the balanced development of individual areas of the country significantly more effectively than the delegation of funds to local environments through centralistically defined and selected measures, even though these are the best intentions. On the questions raised, in particular under 1 and 2, we can offer answers and present measures of these effectiveness when reviewing certain policies at a time and a period after the origin of our country. For the first 10 years in a single country, it was extremely difficult to choose the appropriate measures. During this period, it is difficult to call politics programme-oriented, it has responded to and solved economic and social problems in environments where only these have occurred. The most difficult was in the period immediately after the independence of our economic operators, when, from the safe volume of the closed socialist plan economy with known markets, it was necessary to adapt to the changed conditions in the new markets. The results achieved and international comparisons confirm that policy has been quite successful during this period. The success of the evaluations is based on two statistical data, which say that despite exceptional pressure on job cuts during this period, the unemployment rate has even moved below the average of the European Union's developed countries, while at the same time at the level of the whole country, there has been an increase in the level of development as we reach 72% of the average of the European Union or, most of all, among the member states of accession. I would like to highlight policies that have had a direct impact on the level of employment in the restructuring of the branches, which at this time, as we all well know, have been the only operators in the development of individual environments. I would like to point out that not involving public funds to help these industries would be social disasters in these environments. State policy has been geared towards supporting businesses in implementing restructuring and job conservation programmes or slowing down the job reduction process in individual companies and sectors. Various instruments have therefore been introduced. In particular, provision of funds for the purposes of restructuring and rehabilitation of enterprises. Since 1995, financial instruments have successfully implemented over 150 restructuring programmes. In all these years, substantial resources have been provided to preserve jobs and implement the active employment policy measures achieved during this period, as I said, by reducing unemployment below the average of the European Union. Specific programmes and means to prevent social problems in the face of urgent job losses have been provided for some of the most vulnerable sectors, such as iron and textile and leather industries. Major contributions to these sectors over the past years have led to a gradual restructuring and reduction of employment. This is proved by comparative data with other countries [[otherwise it's hard to measure our own actions]] where, as we know, the trend of termination of jobs, for example in the textile industry, was significantly greater than that of us. In the European Union, for example, there are 4% of employees in these sectors, still 17% of us. An illustrative example of the steel industry is where we enabled the restructuring programmes to gradually restructure and prevent the discontinuation of individual activities. 14,000 employees in the ironworks in three Slovenian regions, Gorenje, Savini and Koroška, which were the dominant economic vehicles in these areas in the 1990s, received state aid. The results of 100 billion tolls of indirect and direct state aid in these years are: first, the systems have been successfully restructured; secondly, they still employ 4,500 people, another 2,500 employees are engaged in privatised, accompanying activities; and thirdly, modern social measures have been used to rescue redundant workers in these years, and also to address a large number of disabled people. However, even more important than the already mentioned immediate responses during this period was the awareness that has always been present in the Liberal Democracy. However, it has resulted in a number of laws aimed at investing and developing human resources. Only by raising the educational level of the entire population, only knowing the knowledge-based society will we be easier to meet the challenges ahead of us in all environments. Therefore, if Slovenia has successfully caught up with European Union countries in recent years after economic development, there have been differences in the development rate of individual regions. The dynamics of restructuring also dictated diversity, as a result of historical givenness and at the same time as the result of the different response capacity of the individual environment. Liberal democracy has offered a solution. In 1999, a law on the promotion of coherent regional development was adopted in the National Assembly and the first regional development agencies were launched. We have set up an organisational and financial instrument through which an action to promote this development in the 12 statistical regions is to take place. Such a solution is painful in the fact that this action has only a territorial framework, but not, as has been said many times today, its own operators. This means that all activities must be carried out from the State, the Secretariat ministries and the municipalities. We have learned that this represents a major obstacle to the more effective implementation of this law today. Therefore, as we have seen in these years, whether we need to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which will allow us to regionalise the country according to the European model, or whether we need to supplement that law by establishing the relevant institutions and co-financing their activities. We are aware that with more sophisticated instruments we must urgently encourage local initiative and responsibility to look for the best development opportunities in the specific environment of Slovenia. If we know that an active policy to promote coherent regional development will also focus on measures to increase the innovation and competitiveness of the economy and to invest even more in human resources at regional level, these objectives will only be achieved if the supply of quality projects from regions lagging behind is adequately increased. The Regional Development Report notes that overall favourable macroeconomic results at country level are also reflected at regional level. In 2001, the registered unemployment rate fell in all regions except Posav. The differences between the central Slovenian region and the rest of the regions have partly decreased. The law on promoting coherent regional development and the regional development strategy of Slovenia also set out measures to reduce development differences between regions. It wasn't just words, it was just marriage. The measures also had financial implications. It is only right that we pay attention to this information. Particular attention was paid to regions which, according to the purchasing power indicators of gross domestic product or the unemployment rate, deviate negatively from the Slovenian average by more than 20%. These regions are pomurska, popodsavska, Podravska and zasavska. The data from the report show that in 2002 public regional expenditure from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia totalled 169.5 billion tolars. Of this, the direct regional development incentives amount to 4.5 billion tolars. These were targeted at the regions most lagging behind in development. Mr. Pukšič, on your call, please, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u29	No comment! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u30	to look at the state budget. [[...]] Indirect incentives with significant regional impact are also implemented through various ministries, a total of 77 billion tolars and other public regional expenditure of slightly less than 88 billion tolars. The data show when compared that in 2002 56% of indirect regional incentives were focused on the development regions at risk. If we add up direct and indirect regional incentives together, the population in the least developed Pomur region is allocated about once more development incentives, 61 000 675 tolars per capita, as in the most developed region, this is the central Slovenian region, where 32 thousand 17 tolars per capita. The budgets already adopted in 2000 and over the next three years show that we were also able to respond to the changed economic situation, the success of which is the basis for coherent regional development. In 1999, a programme was set up to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness. Not only the programme, but also budgets have provided additional funds to support businesses in accelerating investment in knowledge and technological development, increasing productivity and a successful performance in international markets. Since 2000, in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, funds for this purpose have been increased from two billion to six and a half billion tolars, with which we supported some 1,800 projects of companies totalling over 350 billion tolars. In 2000 to 2003, the Ministry of Economy implements a programme for adapting textile, clothing and leather and footwear industries aimed at enhancing the internal capacity of companies in both sectors in key areas of concern: in the area of marketing, technological reconstruction and development of human resources. At the Ministry of the Economy, a total of 4.3 billion tolars were allocated under the programmes to support the development projects of companies under these sector-specific projects, and additional funds from the Ministry of Labour were provided to help solve the problems of workers. Under the law on the use of funds obtained from purchases, a regulation on the allocation of funds for the rehabilitation of companies from the means of purchase was published in 2002. The measures provided for in this Regulation have been allocated to assist companies in difficulties during the preparation of the restructuring programme and to assist economic companies in overcoming regional development problems. 14 companies were granted State aid totalling 690 million tolars. On the basis of the provisions of the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty adopted this year, we will help companies in 2003 with 4.5 billion public funds. Not only that, but also measures to promote new investments and new jobs are set out under the programme, as a priority in the regions with the highest unemployment rate. In the years 2000 to 2003, 34 projects were directly supported through the Ministry of Economy’s tenders, which together provide support for 2529 new jobs, mostly in the Podrav region, 549 and 22%, in Koroška 429 new jobs, or 17%, in the Central Slovenian region 380 and 15%, in the Pomeranian region 373 new jobs or 15%, in the interior and karst 256 or 10%, in Goranje 214 new jobs or 8%, in South-Eastern Slovenia 201 new jobs or 8%, in the Sava region 64 and 3%, and in the lower part of the region 63 and 2% respectively. In addition, I stress - the funds for new investments and new jobs are also provided through the public fund for the development of the small economy in Maribor, where we supported 529 investments in small enterprises, with purchase funds from 2000 to 2003, with favourable loans and guarantees totalling slightly less than 11 billion tolars, with a total of 1,843 new jobs, most in the Podravje regions, central Slovenia, southeast Slovenia and Goriška. In doing so, it should be pointed out that in 2001-2003 the Fund supported 17 start-up entrepreneurs, with an average of 3 new jobs per investment, with a total of 144 million tolars. Additional regional programmes for the restructuring of the region and for the provision of new jobs are under way in Zasavje and Sosoča, depending on the specific issue and on the basis of specific laws which have financial coverage in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia over the next few years. There is no way to ignore, as has already been pointed out in the Minister's speech today, the ranges of active employment policy measures of the Ministry of Labour and almost 18 billion budgetary resources in 2003, which, we must say, are almost 20% more than in 2000, which, together with the care to maintain and open new jobs, constitute the greatest guarantee for the balanced development of all areas of our country. Your Honor! Let me finish. We can see that the State has engaged public funds with a goal pursued by all balanced social market economies. But here is the concern I have expressed at the outset: the current development of the social state and at the same time a number of new requirements of the economic sector at the time of entry into the European Union put demands on the policy that require policy makers to optimise fully all possible measures and, of course, to engage all the people and people of the country for our common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. With your presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have completed the presentation of the views of all parliamentary groups and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. We have a long list of applicants ahead of us. There'll be plenty of time to discuss it. Many colleagues and colleagues have been reported. First of all, my friend Rokavec has the word. The Minister may address himself within this debate, when assessed as such, within the time he has. Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister with co-workers and honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I think it is very useful that we have a debate today on social issues in some regions, but I think that today we should sit here almost half of the government and that it is not only the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, people with disabilities that is the department that covers the topic that is on the agenda today. This is in fact one of the essential topics which concerns the entire Slovenian government. I think there's a lot of questions here. One is the question that has fallen to the bottom of this parliamentary question, Comrade Jerovska, on the issue that has arisen in the wake of such a remarkable women's protest in Trbovje. In other words, I believe that it is necessary to ask the question whether the state, the government, of its own resources, which are not so small, uses effectively and fairly for social security. It is always difficult to say that the funds are spent fairly, but with all the resources, only the extent of the funds provided by the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs, and where there are almost 2 billion budgetary resources not to mention other funds that are at other budget lines of other ministries, these are significant funds. The question is whether they have been used most effectively. First, I believe that there is too little supervision in the active employment policy segment. Many of the unemployed who came to the employment office and the programmes they faced for active employment were not satisfied with me in the office. They even felt insulted. Deplored in this sense that they have been abused or shown to be incompetent citizens or nationals. That's the first question. In fact, these unemployed people are usually older, 45 years later - we know, much harder to work. I therefore believe that it is also necessary to redefinition these programmes in the sense that a person who comes to the employment office and joins the active job search programme must first be redefined in the situation as if he were a less valuable citizen. I had this feeling when these unemployed people came to me with their problems in the office. On the other hand, the second question arises to me when I share State aid for restructuring the economy, to help the economy, whether it is the most effective aid or how it is spent. There are many cases where this aid is also used to fill the pockets of some who are close, or information or management structures. I'll tell you one case that I've already highlighted here in the National Assembly. Krebs’s colleague earlier said that the country had been very helpful in restructuring the leather industry, textile industry and so on. But I'm just going to give the case to the Verkhnik leather industry. The Vrhnika leather industry has received several financial injections so far. If I didn't, I probably wouldn't even be alive anymore. But look at what happens, say, in the case of the Vrhnika leather industry. At the end of last year, Šmartno near Lithuania was closed where more than 300 workers were employed. But 123 of these workers have been driving to Vrhniko for more than half a year, on a daily basis, in all three shifts - for the same program that could be carried out in Šmartno near Lithuania. For the rest of us, almost 200 people, the agony goes on. And then from the question of why the country does not sell the Vrhnnik leather industry, the Šmartno plant, because it is in the process of selling state property this year, when the buyers are also interested, because it would open a new programme with 200 employees at the same location, but all of this is moving away from infinity. And this is one example which is probably why today the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dr Petrinova, should probably also be present here; because here are the elements where the state has to check more quickly how it makes sense to spend state aid money and, on the other hand, to take action where there are opportunities where there are opportunities to revive some production programmes, and this is by no means running out. The next issue to be addressed is the regional development agencies. I am sure that the law on coherent regional development has passed our exam. And that regional development agencies have not done everything that is necessary. Above all, I think that all these procedures have gone too far with the local community. We have to be honest here, the ambition of the country to establish the landscape to ensure greater polycentric development is in place. But if we do not guarantee financial autonomy to these provinces, in this sense we will not guarantee a significant share of that financial meal that remains in the center of the country or perhaps a few other centres, then we will come from the rain under the fall. Here we must first ask ourselves if we are ready to distribute this portion of the cake evenly. On the other hand, on the social issue of certain regions, I am also asked about the equal development of Slovenia with regard to the management of certain infrastructures. Today, when we drive through Slovenia, we can find that Slovenia is developing mainly around major cents and highways. Others are significantly more blind flows, where development is not moving so fast, because there is also no possibility for faster economic development. And this is where the country should come up with a programme to encourage these areas, with adequate infrastructure regulation, to increase investment, to accelerate development and thus to provide a basic objective for the equal development of the country as a whole. Last but not least, there is a lot of talk about job creation, especially in the private sphere. I think we should be more sensitive here in the legislation itself. The legislation we have adopted in the National Assembly has also been adopted many times to the detriment of smaller entrepreneurs, craftsmen, self-employed persons, where we have prescribed even stricter criteria than the European Union's regulations. I believe that there is the largest reserve in this sector, and this should also facilitate conditions through legal and sub-legislative rules. In fact, when a lot of people lose their jobs, they try to go on their own, as we say. He's trying in some way with his program, if he's only interested in ensuring his own existence. I therefore believe that it is imperative to rewind legislation in these areas and facilitate the opportunities for self-employment, just as my colleague, Barovic, mentioned earlier. In particular, in the case of Zasavje, the Sava region, this is one of the very specific issues where self-employment would certainly be one of the priorities for possible job surplus solutions. Last but not least, it is necessary to establish significantly larger mechanisms to control the allocation of all segments of social assistance. In fact, not only in the area of social assistance to the unemployed, but also to other structures. What is unacceptable is what was said last week in the kindergarten law, how someone receives a subsidy, and at the same time bring his child into the Mercedes, and get the same relief as someone who might bring him in with a cliium or whatever. Indeed, the wealth situation is a very important indicator of whether we will be able to drive a fair social policy in our country into the future. The state must first see to it that it does not go outside this ceiling. The fact is that citizens first watch how power behaves. And if power behaves wastefully, then it is not the willingness to understand when it is still necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. He's not in the hall. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u34	Dearly present, sometimes I feel like we live in separate or other countries, and usually I get a feeling of opposition from any representative of the Liberal Democracy. I also got this feeling today when it was you, the esteemed Vice-President, that you were talking about developments in our country, how everything and everything is the best. I personally estimate that, of course, far from this and that the solution to Liberal Democracy in this country is, of course, wrong. It tells you that the real strategy is one that will allow for long-term development and which is primarily aimed at involving public funds allocated by the State to the development of the regions - completely flawed. The State receives public funds from people, and it is perfectly normal that these funds are also returned. So to say what success it is that we have achieved that some of these funds are being distributed is, in my opinion, and I believe that even after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, a very wrong strategy. It's not a strategy, it should be self-evident. On the other hand, one would expect, or at least in the Slovenian National Party, that social differences or social problems are a logical consequence of uneven development. Inadequate development is dictated by the State, the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, when it touches this issue alone and only with one or less financial assistance. According to our assessment, if we want to approach the real development that would enable individual regions to survive in the long term, we should be aware in the new euro market that the quality of regional development is, according to our assessment, primarily the headquarters of banking systems, the headquarters of insurance companies, the headquarters of state institutions, para-institutions, funds, agencies and similar things. As long as the government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Liberal Democracy does not find out, there will be no consistent regional development - I think we have to do it in the long term. Slovenia is too small to concentrate all forces in Ljubljana in the country, this is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Pece. I invite Mr. Janš to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I think the topic we are dealing with today is extremely important. I must, and I must immediately add that it has been important for a long time and that the problems we are talking about have been on the table for many years. In this regard, it is interesting to see this government programme bearing the title of the Programme for the Effective Entry into the European Union and where several proposals have also been made to reduce these developmental differences between individual regions of Slovenia, and in particular how to address the problem of the elimination of unemployment in regions where the percentage of the unemployed is above the national average. The government in this programme - or government party, I don't know what it is now, whether it's a government programme or a coalition programme, it doesn't say anything, it was presented as both - notes that there is a marked lack of fiscal stimulants for greater employment. It is said that tax reliefs to promote faster employment, especially in regions where unemployment is too high or above the national average. In another chapter, writers of this government programme also say that "the government will introduce further incentives for employment with subsidies, for employment" and so on. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, in 1999, the Socialist Party's Group of Members introduced a law into the procedure which proposed precisely this. At that time we introduced a law bearing the title of the Act on increasing employment in municipalities with an average unemployment, which was written after examining some similar solutions in the European Union countries and which envisaged the establishment of a special fund of 15 billion tolars for the period from 1.1.2001 to 31.12.2004. From this fund, funds would be used to pay all taxes and contributions from employees' salaries in new companies in the municipalities to which the development funds were allocated, in the amount of the allocations at the state and municipal competitions. However, municipalities should, in order to compete in such a competition for these funds, offer a communally regulated location to carry out their activities and a minimum of 50% relief in the payment of compensation for the use of building land. Some of the other reliefs the government now invents were also envisaged, namely that "entities which establish and register new activity or business and employ at least 15 employees in municipalities with higher average unemployment are exempt from profit tax for a period of five years if they increase or at least maintain the initial number of employees" and so on. The law, which envisioned many of these measures, which the government is now offering in this famous programme for effective entry into the European Union, has been vehemently rejected by the government coalition in 1999 - the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs was the current Prime Minister - saying it will prepare a system law that will solve the same problem as soon as possible. As soon as this law was rejected, we re tabled it and it is still in the process, but it has never been able to come through the coalition's and parliament's leadership to be re-examined in four years. In all this time, however, the government has not prepared any so - called system law. However, the problems remained the same or increased. If you look at the data that you have available today, and if you look at the data that we have attached to this law in 1999 and then immediately in 2000, you see that virtually the percentages of unemployment are the same or have deteriorated to the detriment of some regions, there is still the most unemployment in Prekmurje, Maribor, Zasavje, etc. Exactly where it was in 1999, four years ago. Nothing happened at the time. The measures we have proposed have been rejected. The government has merely insisted on these social transfers, as they have been determined and which have been largely unstimulating in the meantime, which the government is now finally recognising. In July 2003, the same government, now the then Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, is now the Prime Minister, which is the only one. The essential difference is that it proposes measures that were rejected at the time and, of course, have now been incomplete, by proposing only a fraction of these measures. The transfer is unknown. The transfer is unknown. At the same time, we are listening here to the words of how the Liberal Democracy successfully solves this problem. See the annexes on unemployment by individual municipalities or regions in Slovenia that we have attached to our marriage in 1999 and the annexes available today, and you will see that nothing has been resolved. In fact, these differences have increased. However, more than 15 billion tolars of funds have been spent for these purposes, as we have proposed for a four-year period. So that all these promises that we are hearing today are probably just promises, as was the promise of 1999, that we will get a system law that will save everything, an empty promise, which we can not only speculate today after four years, but we will clearly find. You have to ask yourself why it's possible that someone pulls people by the nose like that. This is possible only in a closed society where no one is responsible for actions and promises. If we compare the number of unemployed by individual regions and social problems and the developmental differences between individual regions in Slovenia, then we see that for the first time, the differences have increased significantly, in the last ten years, which is the same political option in the government. At the same time, of course, we can also find out if we compare this data with the electoral results that, say, the leading government party, this is the Liberal Democracy, in the regions where they least developed, received the best electoral results. Liberal democracy has gained the best electoral result in the regions that have deteriorated most in this time period. And the logical conclusion from this fact is that it is not worth doing to this party, because there are bigger differences, less regions are developed, better electoral results are obtained. And as long as this is the case, the number of unemployed will only grow or the structure will remain the same as it is now. The central Ljubljana region will not know this problem because of its way of ruling, not because of the constitution and other Flossules that we have listened to, but because someone is leading such a policy and the voters are rewarding it for it. As long as it's like this, there's no change to be expected.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! In tackling regional social differences, one of the most important policies in addition to regionalisation of Slovenia is certainly an active employment policy. Employment and decent work are certainly elements that can best contribute to the normal social situation in the region. In the country, we have been monitoring unemployment data for decades, which, with the exception of the last year, exceed 100,000. If we monitor data through the ILO, unemployment is not so dramatic for us compared to the countries of the European Union. Already statistical unemployment shows us a second picture and numbers close to 100,000, which have been quite stable over the past 10 years and show that numerous Slovenian families are experiencing all social problems due to unemployed members. We can be even more concerned about the last census of the inhabitants of Slovenia. Almost 140,000 people have been declared unemployed. In a country where unemployment has long been considered a social hardship that has only been difficult to recognize, since many unjustifiable unemployment has been felt as a personal failure, the last census has clearly shown that the social hardships of the unemployed are so great that it is no longer a great problem for people to recognize the inability to get a proper job, and often any kind of work. So personally, I think that just solving unemployment is one key, but not the only, solution to the social disparities between regions, as unemployment data show that unemployment is high and is even increasing in those regions that are least developed. It is also the hardest place to implement an active employment policy. It is in these regions where a number of textiles, forestry, electrical industries and the like have long ensured their competitiveness on the low salaries of workers and workers that we have been able to monitor in recent years the collapses of a number of companies that have provided the only bread for these passive regions. Of course, it is easy to see that some companies simply fail to withstand the market competition and that they need to be closed. As this requires economic logic and the market economy, of course, it can be seen that the state must withdraw from the economy and leave it to the free market. Of course, cabinets can be wise about this, but without State aid and targeted regional policy, it cannot be expected that young people will not move from these regions to the centres in order to make life easier and better earning or earning at all. When the Minister of Labour, the current First Minister, wrote in a draft national employment programme that the country needs significantly more money to implement active employment policies in these years than we have provided for these purposes in the current state budgets. The Minister was based on European comparisons, which show that many countries in the developing Europe tend to devote several times as much gross social product as we do. Surely we do not have the resources to spare, and the country will simply have to realise that we have to directly employ at least 30,000 unemployed workers and workers in the budget, who are simply working in the long term also unable to find work in a competitive economy. Instead of leaving them on social transfers, these people can be actively involved in life through social services, service services and other forms of local or civil initiative. A number of these are also being implemented in practice. It is immoral and irresponsible of the state that people who after 20, 25 maybe even 30 years of hard work under the most difficult conditions have been burned out who, not by their own fault, have lost their jobs and who have become virtually unemployed because they are too old and because they do not have the proper knowledge or they are not ashamed at all. In short, it is irresponsible to let these workers and workers live to a distant pension, and we have further distanced them from meeting the pension requirement by amending pension legislation. Regionalisation of Slovenia, which in my firm belief could also contribute to the faster development of individual regions and the decentralisation of the country, but unfortunately today we do not have the right addressee here. The Ministry of Labour cannot and will not be able to alter the images of regional differences on its own. It is also necessary to bring quality public sector services to all regions, as only educated young people who will return to these jobs will be able to ensure the long-term development of these regions. In short, the successful employment policy currently being led by Minister Dimovski, supported by sufficient resources to increase employment, which is subsidised by the State in one way or another, and by a successful regional policy, can be a means to reduce social disparities between regions in Slovenia, which I strongly support in the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. He's got a word, Mr. Azhitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Good-bye. When I thought about whether to apply for the debate on this point, I could not have decided for a long time that I should have called, because I am a member of the ebe from the statistical regions in Slovenia, which today was mentioned only in one debate. Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, this was in the debate the leader of your parliamentary group, once mentioned below, as a region with serious development problems and one of the most targeted in this kind of debate. The Posav region did not even recognize the proposer of this point when he mentioned the problems that led Slovenia to this situation, that we have so many different development areas in Slovenia, including human resources matters, and cited Pomurje, Zasavje, Koroška, even Dolenjska, Gorenjska and did not know that it is also within this Posavje which, I believe, is actually the most alarming picture that will show itself only in the future. This confirms to me the fact that there is no development project in Posavje at this time, which would otherwise be supported by the state, if I may say so. It's not Moore, it's not the mines, it's not the hardware store. In Posavia, 50 people disappeared in a few years, a second 100 people, and so on, without big and loud protests, for it never happened that thousands or more of jobs were suddenly at risk. The information on indirect and direct aid provided by the representative of our parliamentary group also shows that the average of these aids is in fact the highest in Pomurje and the other three of the most threatened areas, but that the average aid per capita in Posavje is below the Slovenian average. This is information that can give us serious concern. The data that can seriously concern us is that we have 1,843 needs for workers and trainees registered in Posav for 2003 and 4,240 in 2001. This means that the matter can only go down if we do nothing on our own. Today, it was said in the debate that we must create development projects in regions, and I agree with this, but the question is how to create them, if there are no or too few development agents. Of course, sometimes we can knock on our conscience and wonder what we have done. And it is true that we did not do much in Posavia. Once - there was a report, I think that the Institute for Research or the Institute led by Mr Hanžek - on the state of the human environment in Slovenia, and Posavje is one of those who has given an alarming initiative to launch a broader debate on Posavje, and this has not happened. I'm afraid I don't know why. The fact is that Posavia should be different today. Posavije is one of the largest construction sites in Slovenia, with a section of the Krka vas-Brežje motorway, with the construction of the largest international border crossing Obrežje, with the start of the construction of Sava power plants, with the preparation for the construction of the largest railway border crossing on the Schengen border. Today, Posavje workers work only as subcontractors in the fourth or fifth round. There is no company capable of competing or seriously attracted to this business. So I took the floor in this debate only to hear that Posavje is among the 12 statistical regions, that it is not only Pomurje, Zasavje and Koroška. And don't let my colleagues blame me, the fact is that this is not enough to hear about the end of Slovenia. I would also like to say that this kind of debate, like today, will not have any desired effects, except perhaps political ones. However, I hope that, when we also discuss in Parliament the programme prepared by the government or the government coalition, we will address the point of regional development and the reduction of differences in Slovenia in society not only of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but also of the Prime Minister and ministers of all those departments that have and must have an impact on development in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Christmas to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister with his coworkers! Colleagues and colleagues! So when it comes to social problems in employment, it would be very difficult to expect that he would not come from the places where I come from. In fact, at the time of the transition to the state of Slovenia and later the following happened in our area. A lot of small factories went out, stopped working. Among them was Baca Podbrdo. I don't think that the whole process was carried out most sensitively in Baja Podbrdo while she was still alive. If any assistance was needed, I think that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs would have received it from us in Parliament, because it is difficult to expect good will or intuition from the employees of some of the affected factories to be good solutions. Perhaps we should have a decision that could make the ministry more decisive, not comfort the employees with the idea of how things would work out if they threatened strikes or bankruptcys. For the bankruptcy that took place in Podbreda is a valley along the River Bach, 30 kilometers long - there is no job opportunities today. And what's worse. The bankruptcy manager didn't get the buyers today for this factory. Only one Austrian bought some other knitting machines and the Bach Podbrdo factory, known for its good goods, textiles, is just history. I think we need to achieve that it would not only be a matter of self-determination that would allow a factory to go bankrupt, but that the ministry should have a few more words when it says how a factory can be saved. Something similar is happening today at the Bovec in the Kanin cable shop. If the Kanin cableway goes bankrupt this year, I would point out that the state - SOB and the pond fund are the owners of 54% of the cableway, then it will no longer be winter tourism and there will be no development that we have planned somewhere since 1970. Because without the cableway, there is no one on Canin who can imagine and also not annual tourism. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular that Kanin cableways are owned by the state and that the state is unable to see peacefully that we will go bankrupt with a company which is the only vehicle of tourism for other people who have a tourist activity in Bovške, especially about winter tourism activities and also about summer hiking in Kanin and in the mountains. These two problems, the Bacho Podbrdo and the Kanin cableway, I have pointed out because there are no others around them who would take over the fired workers, and there is no development that tourism actually has if the Kanin cableway is not in Bovec, it cannot be. In doing so, I would particularly like to draw attention to something that often happens. Upper Sočje is considered a statistical mountain region. The statistical mountain region, however, is very rich. That's how it's shown in statistics. But the Baca valley at Podbread and Bovsk are not like that. The capital is concentrated on the lower part, around Gorica, Ajdovščina, but not in remote valleys. And because these remote valleys have a small population, few people, when the average is calculated, are, of course, much higher on average than those who live there. And it's much worse if there's 80 people out of work in Podbrud than if there's a whole statistical order. And this is what you need to take into account in all these calculations and views in a regional sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear fellow Members and Members! I am also announcing myself, because I come from one, I hope to say that the most deproviligated regions in Slovenia. It's the area of Pomurje and it's the area of Perlekia. Normally, this area is in the agricultural sense the most agricultural and since agricultural activity is the least profitable among all activities, of course all the other parameters are linked to this basic criterion. Here today it has been said and found, also by members of the ruling coalition, who are trying to improve the situation a little bit, to correct it as it is, but it has been said that regional differences are too great and that these differences are still increasing. At the same time, it was expressed that regionalisation, the new ministry, etc., should correct this situation as it is at the moment. Of course, I don't believe this, because regionalisation in itself doesn't really mean anything. What we need today in these rural environments and what could change this situation in Slovenia is, of course, something completely different. First of all, this regional development programme needs to be implemented, as the programme as such is good and not implemented. It is said that not enough resources are allocated for these regional development incentives. However, more or less these regional development agencies, which are made up of large assemblies and ultimately for the implementation of the projects that these agencies are preparing, remain virtually nothing. Then, we need legislation that would actually mean investment in some discounts for investors investing in these less developed areas. Legislation that would mean some relief. Further, what we need is a reduction in bureaucratic barriers. Today, fellow Member Rokavec has already mentioned that in this House in recent years we have passed a number of laws to adapt our legislation to European legislation, and we have set ourselves in many ways more demanding criteria than the European Union knows. This has been pointed out many times in this House. We would need more money for education, because the education structure in these deprived regions is significantly worse than in the central region. Next. What we would need would be good road infrastructure. This one has already been mentioned today. If I re-expose this region of Pomurje-Prlekije here, at the moment is road infrastructure, connecting to the rest of Slovenia, very bad. Just yesterday, when we adopted the highway construction program, we highlighted this problem in many ways. We want to know when this area will be linked in a modern way to the rest of Slovenia, because, of course, there is no economic development without a good road connection. So all of these are measures that can prevent what we hear many times today, often talking about brain drain. It means that young people who do not see prospects in these rural environments simply leave the environment. As a result, the demographic picture in Slovenia is constantly changing for us to get an increasing number of people over 65 years of age and fewer people under 15 years of age, of course, because young people are not establishing families in rural areas, but because of all these trends they are going to major cities. Without the preservation and solid countryside, I personally find it difficult to imagine Slovenia's normal entry into the European Union, but it is even harder to preserve our cultural landscape and our particularities and the attractions that Slovenia is experiencing and will carry them as such into this great community of European nations. However, when we talk about this, I must draw attention to the fact that today or tomorrow Parliament will begin to adopt a system law on the elimination of natural disasters. Indeed, it is these rural areas, which are agricultural areas that have been deprived, that have experienced additional burdens in recent years throughout all these natural disasters. And instead of adopting an effective immediate intervention assistance to those people living in these areas in this National Assembly, we are dealing with a system law which, of course, at the time of its adoption, will not bring anything to these areas, I hope to argue. The law is now under consideration on the Infrastructure Committee, but the one proposed does not solve the situation. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is, even today, the system or employment rate has been repeated. Today, the Minister has mentioned some information here, namely solidarity and large transfers, large revenues allocated by the State budget, but in fact, most of the jobs in the region from which I come from are those that are very poorly paid, most of the jobs are tied to some "lon business" and with this new amendment of the labour law you have, of course, made it possible for many of these workers to be employed only contractually. We all know what that means. Those employees who are employed contractually are employed for a period of time, then are fired for a period of time, they are again employed and thus saved some employment and then statistically shows that the unemployment rate in Slovenia is lower than in the European Union countries. Of course not. I know about our congregation when it publishes the employment agency that the unemployment rate is about 20%. This means that 1 in 5 active residents is actually unemployed. So, these are the reasons, and if the ruling coalition and the government, which is preparing a new economic programme, really wanted to achieve some rural revitalisation with this new economic programme, then it could change more thoroughly the financing system itself in this country, but it could change its approach more thoroughly to monitoring these phenomena, not to all the evidences that we have addressed from the opposition to the multiple government, we always hear the answer: if, Slovenia is the best among the Tancian countries, we have the best regulated social situation, and, of course, the problem is in what you compare with. If you compare yourself with the bad, of course, you can be the best among the bad, but if you compare yourself with the good, it is something else altogether. Yesterday I said that I would personally be much more or rather seeing that this image was different and that Slovenia would be compared to the good ones, even though then we would find that we are bad among the good ones, because it would still mean that wages would be higher, that the employment rate would be higher and that what is happening today in the field of social distribution would be much slower or not at all. It is difficult to imagine that this new direction, a better image in the Slovenian economy, could be achieved with this government, especially not now that we are entering the last year before the elections themselves. I hope that after the elections next year, something will change. This is probably the hope of many Slovenes and Slovenians, because as far as I am among people and as far as I am speaking to them, people simply do not believe that despite all this beautification at this moment, something essential can be moved in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, who was next in line, is not among us. My word to Mr. Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. The issue that we are discussing today is a delicate, deep, under-explored and under-priced issue. Liberal democracy also pays him little attention. In the last human development report, from Umarje, it is clear that I will quote: "Even though we do not have statistics in Slovenia on inequality and poverty in the regions, data on beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, together with the unemployment indicator, can show us the situation." And we do have in the eastern part of Slovenia from Prekmur, Maribor, to Posavje, New Town many more inhabitants who need to receive financial social assistance to survive, and much more unemployed than in the central and western parts of Slovenia. In particular, the study emphasises that we have twice as many inhabitants in the Pomur region who need monetary social assistance for survival. Gentlemen, we were talking a while ago about health problems in these regions. Some numbers have been given to say here. For example, the adult population per doctor comes to the Crane region of 1654, in Murska Sobota 1830. Please follow the differences. Children and youth, in the Ljubljana region to a doctor pediatrician 1156, in the New Town of 1803. He was born a gynecologist in the novogorski district unit 5944, Maribor 8230. Child to orthodontist, case in district unit Koper 6173 to specialist, in Murski Sobota 16.413. It's a perfect coincidence. And if I tell you that in the eastern part of Slovenia our citizen lives five years less than in the central and western parts, he also says something. How does the Liberal Democracy of this fleet, despite our three-year-old warnings? In the National Health Programme, which we adopted in 2000, the second priority objective is: 'Reduction of differences in health care and the health status of the population'. And here the national programme indicates these differences and also suggests an approach to resolving these differences. And he says, "The network of public health services in the Republic of Slovenia at the primary level will be based on the criteria and instructions of the Minister responsible for health" and so on. Next: "The Ministry of Health shall, within six months at the latest, develop more precise criteria for the implementation of this programme." That was in 2000. The reform began long before Minister Keber took office before the mandate of this government, or of the previous government, or of this government took place. The reform had begun far earlier, but with your Minister Kebra's performance, this reform had stopped. In his program, in his white book on this problem, he only says this. [[Quote]] : "Good and equal accessibility of the population to basic health care will be ensured through the equal distribution of doctors throughout the country."
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u47	Mr. Cuckoo, allow only [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u48	No, I mean, we're talking about a regional state, and here's just an example. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u49	Yes, but here we have the Minister for Labour and Discussions, and there will be no answers to the health issue. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u50	Please don't interrupt me! This is just one of the segments that somehow indicates that the integral image is even more difficult. And even if the representatives of the Liberal Democracy say they are asking themselves questions every day, I believe they are asking themselves daily questions about these problems, Madam President, but it is not enough to ask themselves questions, something should be done. And what happened at that time, I don't know who could show it, but I'd like to see it. Gentlemen, these are not simple problems, these differences are deepening. In such a small country, such differences! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. When we talk about solving social problems in some regions, we can see that family policy is also important in solving social problems. The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, together with the rights of parents and with material assistance, provides for the protection of parents and mothers, material assistance to children and especially to children in need of special care and care. It introduces ten new or nearly thirty possible rights. We can see that in the last ten years we have made serious moves in the area of family policy, which also have a significant impact on the social situation of many Slovenian families. In many cases, family benefits in difficult times of loss of parental work or inability to work in regions where jobs are lacking save the minimum social security of some families. The findings show that in some families family benefits have reached almost half of the family’s income. Therefore, issuing such a family policy as our laws allow can make a qualitative contribution to alleviating the daily pressures of the most endangered regions we are talking about today. If we compare family policy spending in the budgets of the last ten years, compared to the expenditure on the unemployed, we can see that it has greatly increased the funds for family policy, since they have spent roughly the same amount of money on the unemployed for the purposes of family policy ten years ago, and today the difference is multiple for the benefit of family policy. Therefore, in the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that the implementation of family benefits and parental protection policies can also be an important element in solving social problems in some of the more passive regions. Let me mention some of the data that shows that the new law has achieved its objective by enforcing new rights. He has raised the percentage of men who benefit from leave for care and protection. On average, 90 fathers' paternal leave, a partial loss of income payment currently benefits almost 200 parents, the right to reduced working time benefits 750 parents, a large family allowance, which is often important, in the most socially disadvantaged regions, last year, 24 000 families. This year it receives a child allowance of 406,000 children, the right to an increased allowance for children who are not in kindergarten has been exercised by 34 000 500 children. After more than one year of implementation of the law, we can say that it is and will achieve its purpose. With many discussions and initiatives on what the state can do to protect parenthood, we can see that the experience of other countries in the world needs to be reviewed in solving this complex problem. Just comparisons show that there are not many countries in the world that would solve the issue of rights arising from the law on parenting and protection and family benefits at a comparable high level than we do. The continuation of such a family policy will certainly also contribute to solving the social problem in some regions, which we are dealing with today. This area is certainly part of a broader model, the resolution of social problems in the most vulnerable regions as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Schwagan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u54	Honourable Vice-President, Minister, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is nice to speak today when you called this day just a suspense day or the day of Jerovšek. The information that Barovic also mentioned is worrying and I am sure that many have also been affected by the information that was in the Weeknik itself when the stories from Zasavje were difficult from Trbovlje. Also, the figures in the last census show that there are just over 1,300 fewer people in Zasavje. The only positive results are the Municipality of Zagorje, where there are 100 more people. When my colleague Jerovšek speaks about these women, whom I admire - I also have two stories - the story of Lisca and also [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] as mayor of Zagorje municipality, when women fight for these 60, 70 thousand tolars, but they want to have a job and be an integral part of society. [[...]] But these women who protested in the Rippers also have all their husbands and their sons. When we all speak demogosically in these debates, of course when I say that they have their own husbands and sons, I would say that these are also miners I ask mainly colleagues and colleagues on the left, Mr Jerovska, when we talked about Thermoelectric III, about the future fate of the miners and also the Zasav region, it was you on my left who collapsed this project. Today, when we can talk about maintaining 2 000 jobs, we are talking about the crisis in Zasavje. In Zasavje, which does not have its perspective mainly due to spatial problems. In Trbovje, there are as many as a thousand 500 unemployed, in Hrastnik 700, in Zagorje, the lowest unemployment rate is 14%, and this data is alarming. The two laws gave a hand on and on Zasavya. The first was the law on the gradual closure of the mines of Zagorje, Senovo and Kanjiarica. I can tell you that this first marriage made things look positive. We had 500 employed miners, because the state has given us funds, and the local community has been the one that has made it possible to re-employ miners, with the help of the state and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, of course. We've opened two trade zones. When we are always talking about the country, about the ministers, about the government, I must stress that the local community must also be the one involved in individual projects. With us, we have decided that whoever invests in the Zagorje municipality is exempt from the title of the Building Land Fund, which means that the local community also allows better conditions and the opening of new jobs. The second law is the law on the closure of the Trbovlje mine and Hrastnik, and the kear referendum was also voted in a negative sense, mainly by right-wing parties, and thus prevented the further development of Zasavlje and also caused the most powerful dreams of individuals or individuals in Zasavje. This also destroyed the future in Zasavje. I can say that this law has also brought positive results because it has brought three measures. The first measure is a measure in the preparation of infrastructure, which means, in particular, the preparation of craft zones. This is said to be the case in all six municipalities, which also mean the central Sava statistical region. The second measure is in the field of economy accepted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also by this Parliament, but it mainly means promoting entrepreneurship and restructuring the economy. Here 243 million tolars were invested. 18 projects were also included in these funds, which means that 230 new jobs are to be created in three years. We also opened a technology center. We can boast that we have a computer "saw machine", which is the most modern in the Slovenian space and we also want to attract others to Zasavje. Magus, too. Prime Minister Rob handed over this award last month. The third measure, the most important measure, is the development of human resources. There's about 250 million tolars in here. It is very important here because we know that there is a large brain drain of young people in Zasavje, there are 83 scholarships, and with this action the Regional Centre for Development, which was created by the local development agency in Zagorje, has grown into a regional development centre, with the participation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Social Work and Family alone. The active employment of the unemployed is also very important. Here is the labour fund, with 546 citizens and citizens in this labour fund, 350 of which have been given new jobs. Of course, his colleague Jerovšek also discussed a lot in the adoption of the budget when he spoke in such and different illustrations, what he could do, how he worked with money in Zasavje from the closing of the mine. And today he's talking about demagogism, about poor women who are really poor. But I don't think that politics can get a spike at the expense of an individual who is in daily trouble. Dear fellows! I can tell you, if it weren't for this government, and above all, even Dr. Dimovski, who's always standing by our team, these numbers would be even more worrying. I am sure that the next term, when this National Assembly speaks of Zasav, will unfortunately talk about even worse information. Worse data is precisely because there is no possibility of further development, especially as regards spatial distress and problems. That is why it will be necessary to adopt a better law sooner or later, a better law at the expense of development, especially the Ripper. I will personally propose that most of the funds be allocated to the municipality of Trbovlje, which is in the most difficult condition in the region of Zasavska and that the other municipalities also give up these funds at the expense of development and help these workers and workers. Blood and tears, of course, can be hard words. But they can also be beautiful if they are uttered with a beautiful purpose in a song. Thank you again, and I want this debate to bring better results for Zasavje as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. First of all, I didn't even intend to get involved today, but since this is an opportunity, I have something to say. I will not touch on the issue, which is all too present today and is also related to this topic of regional development, structural reconstruction, structural restructuring, regionalism as the only viable solution for us to change some structural state of employment in this country. These matters have already received a fully politicized city, and this is especially true for us coalition members, because, after all, Minister Potočnik told us at Brdo what needs to be said, what holds in this area and what is just conducting some conversations and seeking goals that are not there. Today I will ask myself what is going on with Slovenian management, how management works, how it manages in our new economic order. I wonder if it is really necessary that in some environments, such as Trbovlje such as Zasavje, so many companies have failed. Was it really natural for companies to fail? Many companies that have been affected by the Yugoslav market have maintained, restructured, without State intervention, and so on, thanks to responsible and capable management. When the club of managers, at the beginning of this new economic and economic era of our country, set up the platform and the status of the manager for our Slovenian situation far-dimensioned, it began to manage as it managed. I mean, how she's managing today. Let's let someone become a manager. There's no need or criterion for someone to finish an economic college, and so on, to do an internship, and now he's going to be a manager. It is managed in such a way that in some company programs that are not the most profitable, and yet, they have a brand, they have a rating, simply by the line of least resistance. Of course, this is followed by such a reduction in the employment structure. Is it not a matter of able management to upgrade such a programme with its approach, to implement it to a higher level, which will market, which will pass on costs - the easiest thing to do is to do so. The easiest thing to do is to restructure the company by rationalizing business, by shutting down jobs, and then from one, I understand, a pre-sealed view into the employment structure, we halved it into an unreasonable half or more, into two thirds, and then we managed it further. Nor is it possible to manage by eventually establishing a firm with a strong attitude toward all other employees. This is a success for a very short time. Where you once killed in these people, in these employees the inner belongings of the company, the feeling that this company is also his, not only that he has a salary, has ruined everything that the manager owes. There is so much about this that those who have spent a relatively long time in industry can only react horribly to it. I'll say one more thing. Sometimes I don't give a shit because we're looking for some ugly spots in our paychecks, these or those wages. Today, our managers, many of whom are managing through their d.o.o. and practically exhibiting accounts for their management with the account of their OD, which may be large or more than two salaries of the Prime Minister. What do these, I'd say, fancy managers then pay for the state cash registers, for contributions? What he's up to is the director's status in one of his d.o.o. All I know is that in many companies where the state owns, even the majority owner, the conduct of the supervisory boards chaired by State secretaries, undersecretaries and so on is extremely irresponsible. The criteria for managers' awards must be completely new dimensions, new criteria. If the manager fired half the employees, he's not a good manager yet, so he can have me. If he has a good salary, his employee must also have a business, he must feel good at the company and have a salary that provides him with some existence. It's almost blasphemous to talk about this today, because we've parted somehow, we've become socially divided. Now is an opportunity, because this must also be part of the government programme when we are looking for a starting point. Therefore, I firmly believe that it is necessary to leave the starting points that have been set for these people through the club manager not to set a completely new criterion. And it's not possible for these people to interact: I'm managing here now, because things are appropriate and I have a great starting point, I'm cashing out my maternity leave and I'm going to manage there. Maybe someone's gonna say you're bullshitting, but I can tell you where and how this is happening. But I don't need it. However, I know that this is not a situation that would allow for better employment, job retention and job opening. That's one. Second. I respect and welcome the efforts of Minister Dimovski, and I can say, as I see it, that he is good at leading the entire policy structure that this department must plan and guide. But I do have the feeling that some approaches are already getting too big. See on the labour market is the state of many things like this. Practically today, some company, some s.p., say, roofing, mismanagement cannot get good workers, but regardless of the relatively good pay, this salary may be too small, given the burden it poses for this entrepreneur. There's more to be done here. But here you have to ask yourself, what is the reason why, say, a company that has 700 registered unemployed people, does not serve with some of the personnel that this environment needs. People like me turn to me, and I know them as good masters, as well as respectable people who have a relationship with their worker. We're gonna have to think about something here. Is everything just in subsidies and so forth? I will also say, we have upgraded parental policy with huge subsidies. I am in favour of working on this parental policy, but I wonder if it gives results, given the expectations on which we have invested. Thus, it is also necessary to stop here through the programme presented to us by Minister Maramor through the premiere as a fact. But I'd like to say two more words about the value system that we're in as a society. This one has become and is becoming a little bit "declared". I ask why entrepreneurs, why production stops and moves to the store, despite what we say, is no problem to do, the problem is to sell, but not every item. Why is that? And then we have problems with trade law and so on. Is it really necessary to create profits in one segment of the economy, and in the other, it is practically impossible to survive. We, as a country, need to reshape these parameters, which will slightly change this value system. Perhaps a lot of time has been spent on today's debate, and it has happened if nothing else gives the government and the minister some thought and perhaps some correction in his forecast of how to plan a policy. Once again, I argue that it is a shame that as a drunkard of the fence we have taken up this rezonalism and these terrible structural differences, they are, but this is not the solution that this is our vocabulary from minute to minute, from session to session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. Comrade Mamić, you have the floor now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I am pleased with this open topic on regionalisation in Slovenia. For I live with the feeling that our country or government does not care much about the Slovenian countryside. I would like to say a few words from the end where I live and work, this is the North Sea region. If we walk up the upper hill from north to south, God forbid it's winter, because then we have to go back the same way, because we can't cross the Vršič, because it's closed, and on a narrow and bad road. The Upper Sučí is also known for its beaches, we all know Log under Mangrtom and there are other reptiles that are still alive. The Upper Sootje is also known after the earthquakes, since the buildings have not yet been repaired after ten years, or I do not know how many years of the earthquake. Especially young people have no prospects for existence and are then looking for all possible ways to move out. This is very, very bad, wrong for Slovenia. Then some people like to say that Nova Gorica is the richest place in Slovenia. I don't think that's gonna hold. In Novi Gorica there is only HIT, which is also a hit in the true sense of the word, a parade horse of the coastal economy, but it is a branch that can be from today to tomorrow. It must be renewed, real investment must be large and frequent. There's already competition coming from Italy, so we don't know what's going to happen to this HIT. In this case, I don't know where those people are going. Last year, Iverka got locked up. This is also known in our Parliament, what has been happening, for ecological reasons, of course. And 130 people just stayed on the road. But the community didn't have the means to give these people some kind of livelihood, if I say so, and I don't even know how they live. This is for ecological reasons because the state allowed the plant to operate without a trade permit for more than 20 years and then the Greeks complained that there was too much smoke, that there were toxic substances in that valley, etc., so the facility had to be closed and people remained on the road. If I go further south now, this is the Vipavska Valley, where I live, they said it was a Slovenian paradise. They made a melioration a few years ago and the result is that the groundwater fell by 50 to 100 cm. That was the result. We also have living reptiles, salt mud, you know that. The specifics of the Vipava Valley are storms. What doesn't dry the sun drys the storm if it blows. I've already mentioned the groundwater, and it's said that it's dry every year, although it's inappropriate to have more rainfall than it is in Prekmurje, but the drought still exists. The crowd visits us almost every year. There's still cold this year, so he knows his way around fruit, etc., not to mention. Here I have only mentioned some information that no one would think is, I know that there is a crisis in Zasavje, I know that there is a crisis in Prekmurje, etc., but there is no paradise in Primorsk, as they call it. I think it is high time we sober up, that the Slovenian economy rises. He's got potential for that. Of course, it's probably not real human resources. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamić. My friend Dr. Brace has the floor. Please, my friend Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. The increase in social distress has been repeated today. A number of documents testify to this. Unfortunately, I must say that the 2002 Ombudsman's report, which we have just received, highlights, say, "even though we have adopted an anti-poverty programme in Slovenia, the practice shows that this good programme is not enough to solve or at least mitigate this pressing problem" etc. [[...]] Today we have also heard a lot of concrete cases from different backgrounds, different statistical comparisons, which all show that more funds are justified for social inclusion. However, greater hardships, greater poverty, greater social resources are the result of something. And we should actually talk about this in this national assembly. We cannot blame the current or previous labour ministers for, for example, greater unemployment, because within the framework of their powers they can do what the law requires them to do. Of course, we cannot now say that the ministry will save jobs with no idea what employment programmes, but if the economy is unable to create new jobs. The state administration is nowhere else in the world, except with the "new deal" it was unable to awaken the economic system that is in some kind of collapse. And I am afraid that this is one of the main factors of the difficult social situation that all the fighting is showing in Slovenia. Social issues are a consequence, not a cause. If we find today that all fights are different, diverse and many forms of social assistance and that more and more people need them, then, of course, this means that government policy has been inadequate over the past ten years. It is said that the severe social distress of people we are talking so much about today, which is much written about, is due to inadequate government policy in the past decade. The difficult social problem in Slovenia is the real picture of a success story that you are not talking about anymore, but you are talking about belt tightening. And that goes well together. In such situations, of course, it is right that social issues are being dealt with and that social funds are being strengthened, but that Slovenia will not be able to endure for much longer, that is perfectly clear. And this is where the crucial question now arises, and action is needed. When I hear this today, I have to say that I can actually only be disappointed with what I read and listen to. If we take the last piece of paper, the programme for effective entry into the European Union, this is what the government is now very much bragging about, or I don't know who that is, how important it is. What does this remarkable text say in the section on structural reforms in the labour market and employment promotion? He says: "Wanted development goals, promoting the employment of the most vulnerable people, introducing new methods, promoting employment with employers". These are all new themes, nothing new. Action. Before that, colleague Janš mentioned the law that we have tabled, which is now here in a single piece. But if we look at it, there's really no action, there's really nothing that we could say, and now we have something that we're going to resist, and now it's going to work. But there are words, and on top of all that, of course, a whole lot of inconsistencies. Let me just say one thing about what we are currently discussing. This chapter, which discusses structural reforms in the labour market and the promotion of employment, says that the government will have to strengthen instruments that promote employment and reduce structural unemployment. The sources of funding for these contributions are savings in rationalising the social transfer system, even though the situation is becoming increasingly difficult, there will be some rationalisation. Secondly, the transfer of assets from passive forms of aid to active measures. Thirdly, additional revenue to the budget for payment of employers' obligations from payment of salaries. In another chapter, one page earlier, the Tax Reform and greater efficiency of the tax administration are spoken by the government in the same document on this - in the second paragraph of paragraph 1, the point says 'tax burden of work'. So, in the same document, which is supposed to be European-oriented, we find, for the first time, a lot of flossules, a lot of general words, percentages and contradictions. What we should take seriously is for our economic system to develop better, to have better conditions for action, to be more open, to make the environment truly a real, competitive environment, because if there is no competitive environment, then everyone relies on the country, just like colleague Švagan here. As mayor of Zagorje, in a very difficult region, of course, he complains about the fact that the government and so on, but of course we are also guilty, marked us as the right hand and so on, because we caused the referendum on TET 3 to fail but he forgot that the referendum was not alone, but that people had decided on the referendum. Typical socialist policy - waiting for the government to give Zasav something! Yes, do you remember what a difficult situation the mercury mine in Idria was when, literally overnight, mercury became uninterested because of other substances in the world's markets? And that was one of the biggest mines in the world. The then government has taken measures, rehabilitation and so on. But what has happened in this region, which was almost entirely based on this mine? We can say that a developed environment, a relatively developed environment, even though it has severe communication problems, is much larger than Zasavje, and there are others that I do not now list. But just complaining about how hard it is doesn't get anywhere. And here, my friend Brenčič is right when he was talking about management. If people are capable, something will happen. But if Zasavlje is run by incompetent people, nothing will happen and they will always just wait for some help from the state. And whoever doesn't will be to blame for this because Zasavje is not developing. Please! Where do we live? The government in these measures speaks of these as short-term measures. Allow yourself to do so - I'm just going to give this case so you don't say I'm talking to myself. For example, there are such sentences - watch out, these are short-term measures, it says here: "Development goals. Increase in the share of technologically demanding products in total exports from 26 to 50%." It is said that short-term success is to increase difficult products in exports by 100%, from 26 to 50. There's a lot more of that here, and I'm not going to bore you with it. I just want to say that after all I've read here, I can't say anything but that I don't believe that anything is going to happen, not after this program, not after any other government or ruling coalition that is going to propose. What have you been doing for ten years? You talked about the success story, today it's belt tightening and saving, and everyone who can and does not know what measures and, of course, a greater need for social affairs. I must say that a few words of criticism also apply to the Ministry of Labour. This is certainly one of the ministries which, by content, is very diverse and difficult to manage and deals with all possible difficult issues. Normally, people who receive compensation or some kind of help do not want it, they want to work they want to have a decent life, not live off some support from charity, etc. That is why it is difficult in these direct contacts for all those referees, experts, etc. who deal with these problems daily. However, my impression is also based on my brief experience in this ministry that the relationship between the funds received by the Ministry as a whole and those shares that are then actually in the hands of social needs, etc., all those recipients of these social assistance, etc., other forms that make this relationship unfavourable. I think it's, I'm not going to say that it's the Parethsydrome, 80% that it works, but I think the ministry should do more here in these particularly difficult times. Let's say I take the employment agency. I don't know how many people he has today. I remember the number of about 800 to 900 employees. It's supposed to be around here somewhere. If we look at the statistics of the report, then we can see that this institution needs a lot of resources for its own operation, and in fact, a lot of resources are just transferred to the hands of other operators. Why wouldn't someone do that on the basis of a concession? Why do we still have to have state institutions for this purpose when we could put this into concession and it would be much cheaper to do so? There aren't so many cases in the world. I didn't make it up. I know a number of cases where such institutions operate on the basis of a private initiative and are significantly cheaper than if they are state-owned. For transmission, you can have a department in one state authority that only allocates funds on the basis of the rules. I think there's a lot to be done here. Second thing. I am not so sure that the Ministry has such a good record, but in this case I agree with one sentence in this programme, to know exactly, say, on the basis of a single home number or something similar, how much of all possible forms of social assistance and other benefits are received by an individual and what else is his material state. What am I trying to say? It is much easier to work on the forms and numbers that are written in them, and much harder directly in the field with people In the office of the Member people often advertise people who say I have so and so social assistance, you see immediately that people are really in trouble, and on the other hand someone also gets some social assistance from the country, but it is in a significantly better material position, but this does not happen, although, well, what cases do we sometimes provide to the competent ones. What I'm trying to say is that in this area, the ministry might have done more than that. As it is said, I do not believe that the mentality of this government will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thanks, buddy Brace. The word is now from a colleague of Majda Potrat's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister and Secretary of State! We have established in the Constitution that it is a social one for our country. We want her to be economically efficient and socially fair. But when we discuss the social problems in it and ask myself whether our social sensitivity has exceeded the old Slovenian saying: Sita crow hungry does not understand, I answer myself in the political vocabulary: Solidarity must be greater to be sufficient. If we consider employment to be one of the most important elements of social security and if we assess social security measures in this context, I believe that the issue of their effectiveness and adequacy is not a matter of one ministry itself, but of several ministries, because raising social security is only possible when social, economic and regional development is linked. But we are discussing the answer of only one ministry, so I will limit myself to only one aspect of this question. The major changes that we most often use historical markings have brought with them a completely historic individual, and therefore the more fatal changes, which, irrespective of the systemic measures adopted for a good part of our people, show, however, less social protection. Of course, it is possible that the majority, according to the latest opinion poll, are satisfied with the existing material conditions. Obviously, however, the proportion of discontents is close to half, with 45% more accurate. The fundamental question is whether social protection is sufficient, appropriate, in line with the expectations of most citizens and citizens. Whether we are particularly effective in preventing, but also in tackling social pressures and problems, we are sufficiently effective and, above all, sufficiently solidarity. However, the international comparability of our social protection with Europe and the increase in social protection resources cannot change the fact that regional differences in economic development and actual social security are increasingly evident. The explosion of unemployment in the early 1990s did not hurt everyone the same. In the Maribor area, it grew until 1996 and only in 1997 began to decline gradually, but it is still among the highest in Slovenia. 16.346 unemployed persons were at the end of April or 16.9%. The need for workers, and for comparison, has only been recorded by the same institution in 7.127. If we are led by two basic objectives in employment, this is to promote employment and improve the unfavourable structure of the unemployed, active employment policy measures have opened up at least part of the unemployed opportunities for first or re-entry into the labour market. However, due to the level of education, the professional and age structure of the unemployed, which is not in line with the workforce needs of the labour market, the reduction in unemployment has been hampered. However, the proportion of the long-term unemployed in our area is declining. However, the proportion of unemployed women is increasing. The percentage of unemployed older than 50% is decreasing, but we have a relatively high percentage of the unemployed among job seekers or young people up to 26 years of age. Despite the fact that the share of the funds allocated to the various active employment and Republic scholarship programmes for the Maribor statistical region is the largest in Slovenia, 7 billion and almost 900 million, the social picture of this part of Slovenia will not improve rapidly. The effects of an active employment policy are mainly reflected in the structure of the unemployed, as the proportion of long-term unemployed persons without vocational education and older unemployed persons has decreased. It is therefore necessary to provide additional funding for the region with a higher unemployment rate in the future, which will also have an impact on reducing regional disparities. Public works are an example of a tested and effective programme aimed at particularly vulnerable groups of unemployed people. For example, in the first five months of this year 1,615 people were more difficult to employ. As an example, this programme has created a new professional service, a home aid centre, which also brings higher quality of life to citizens and citizens in addition to new jobs. The effects, therefore, are not only economic but also sociological and social. Since the number of job seekers and young people under 26 is high, measures to promote new employment, such as the remuneration of the trainee, are also of paramount importance. The revised demographic picture of Slovenia and the extension of the working age impose a special careful weighting and balance of measures which, on the one hand, by involving young people in the labour market would prevent the brain from escaping from areas with a higher unemployment rate and, on the other hand, we must not allow social exclusion and from the labour market of a mature and older generation so that they do not live in the autumn of their human dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you. My colleague Moga has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! I see the opposition's intention to have these meetings broadcast publicly in this, in my opinion, that the leaders of the opposition parties can watch television on such important topics, of course, if they have time to do what is going on in the national assembly. That's my personal evaluation. An old Chinese proverb says don't give the hungry guy a fish, but teach him how to fish. But as soon as it's about learning, it's about education. At the beginning of the 1990s, Slovenia embarked on an independent path with considerable backlogs in the field of education. So we had 9848 people without education, with an incomplete primary school of 253 thousand 640 people, with a primary school of 451 thousand 222 people, and with a high school of only 65 thousand 240 people or 4.3% of the total population over 15. With such a pattern, it is impossible to go to Europe and work in an equivalent way with other nations, which have this structure inadequately higher than us, even at a time when there is no deadline for a decisive moment or argument that a society is successful, but how much knowledge an individual in this society in its kindergartens is going to thank Parliament for adopting excellent school legislation. In particular, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education set general objectives, one of which remains a central development national priority. These objectives point in particular to the promotion of lifelong learning, the provision of general education and the acquisition of a profession for the entire population, as well as to the highest possible level of education for the population. It has to be said that once the status of the society was given to kings by the name of the Count, the Duke and so forth, and today it gives status, among other things, to a large extent, to the school system, when someone with secondary education, someone with higher, higher, and someone even with academic degrees such as a master or a doctor of science. In 2000, we had 430,000 children and 21.5% of the total population in the school process. Slovenia should be commended for the fact that only one of the countries in transition has adopted a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia on education and education, namely five programmes: investment in school premises, computerisation, knowledge of foreign languages, accessibility of textbooks and teaching materials, provision of funds for the school diet of children and young people, and the Republic of Slovenia has allocated 27 billion 548 million tolls for their implementation, at prices of 1.1.1994. When members of the Council of Europe’s Social Development Fund were aware of the implementation of the programmes mentioned above, they said that such a programme was one of the most equating social opportunities of man and therefore approved a loan of EUR 9 billion 203 million for Slovenia. On this basis, the National Assembly has also adopted a loan law under the Council of Europe for Social Development, with an average of 9 billion tolars per year invested in it. It should also be said that the National Assembly and Members of this Assembly, hereinafter, have passed, this year or this year, a law which provides 167 billion tolars for these purposes. You know all that stuff. I have tried to synthesize a little bit in numbers what this means with regard to the same possibilities, and I can tell you that from 1993 until now the state of Slovenia has restored or re-established 288 primary schools, that it has dedicated 20.5 billion tolars to this, and that the records for the renovation of the Slovenian Bistrica Schools, from which it is also a candidate, and of course the Koper Municipality. If we go to see how these things were distributed across the regions, then we can say that the pomurska region received 2 billion 258 million dollars of funds, the municipality of Murska Sobota with primary school two, first and second stages, for primary school one, for elementary school three and for elementary school Bakovci. The Podrav region has won 4 billion 185 million tolars. We gave the most for the elementary school of Desternik and for the primary school of Franca Žgeča, Dornava and among the municipalities of Slovene Bistrica, for the primary school of Poljčane, Tinje, Laporje, Zgornja Polskava, Šmartno na Pohorje, Črešnjevec, Kebelj and of course Ormož. I'm not gonna list these anymore. The Koro region here is very poor, with 878 million. If we go further to the Celje region, it's got 3 billion 19 million. They're leading Lasko with Jurklošter primary school, Laško, Primož Trubar - and I've already gone over it. Then the suspense region with only 251 million, which has already proved to be very bad. The primary school in Brežice and the elementary school in Artiča, Globoko, Dobova, Pišice and the elementary school in Velika Dolina, the music school and Koprivnica primary school. The Southwest Slovenian region also received a slightly smaller share, but nevertheless a large, 2 billion 406 million. They are leading primary schools from New City, Šmihel, Idrija, Podgrad and so on. The central Slovenian region received 2 billion 449 million. The Municipality of Grosuplje and Lithium are the leading ones. The Gorenje region received 1 billion 300, Kranj’s forerunners. Interior Kraška region 716 million, leading Postojna, Goriška region 1 billion 179, leading Tolmin municipality with five renovations. Then the coastal and karst region received 1 billion 42 million, the Koper municipality’s predecessors with the schools of Semedela, Croatia, Vojkovo pobreje, Ukmar, Valdoltra, received even for 50 years of connection, Gračište, Šmarje, etc. Dear colleagues! This isn't where it ends. It should be said that the country also invested in kindergartens, which is also corrective, with 1.3 billion for 50 kindergartens in several municipalities. For example, if I stop in the Pomur region, the village of Beltinci with the gardens Beltinci, Otěžovje and Ižákovci was the largest. The others are less. That you'll know the following things. There were also investments in secondary schools, amounting to 59 schools, 22.4 billion. The places include: Bled, Nova Gorica, Ljubljana, Maribor, Domžale, Krško, Ormož, Lithija, Jesenice, Piran, Koper, Kočevje, Ljutomer, Slovenj Gradec, Idrija, Ptuj, Izola, Metlika, Trbovlje, Novo mesto, Murska Sobota, Velenje, Zagorje, Zreče, Sežana and could also be listed. There were 13 billion invested in higher education for 30 higher schools, because this is mainly limited to two large places, I will not generally comment on this and I would like to say that in the end, this small country has already paid off and these laws were, at least the last, adopted the will of all our members by acclamation. If you look at the possibilities we had in the entries, then I can tell you a comparison from 1991 to 2002. In 1991 they had an incomplete elementary school of 253,000 people, now 104 thousand. Primary schools had 451, and now 433, secondary school 652 thousand; now 899 thousand, with an earlier 65 thousand, now 131 thousand, which means that, as far as the staff is concerned, we have become a society that has invested enormously and that has also received something that brings us closer to going slowly and following the European Union. All you have to say is if, for example, you are interested in, that about in the generation where I am from 1955 to 1959 was with a high education of about 6,000 people. Generations between the ages of 25 and 29 are already over 20,000 with high education. It seems to me that things are going to be completely different from what they were. What bothers me most today and as mathematics, which is one of the purest religions, seems to me to be selling and working here today, dear colleagues, if you use the term Mr. Bayuk yesterday, "meglo and some grey". We're talking about regions. The regions are either cohesive, so far the whole of Slovenia is a cohesive region. We don't have administrative regions, do we? Well, we only have congregations. But we have statistical regions that are said to have no administrative apparatus, no other apparatus to work have people. And it seems to me, dear colleagues and colleagues, that if we squandered our powers, as we have done in education, and we could all put together our impulses when we go to the polls, each in our own way, that if our party Februarys representing the parties and are responsible for all these things that are happening, we would be inclined to try to change the constitution once in Slovenia, so that regionalism could be possible in Slovenia to turn three cohesive regions into three administrative regions to then give these regions sub-regions or, if you want, circuits, then that would make sense for us to speak. Now to impose what we have agreed on the regions to do, but they have no apparatus to do it, they are nebulos themselves. That is why at the end of this, because we will not take any decisions, we invite you, all the politicians, you who lead the parties' summits, let us unite once, pull together these forces and try to resolve regionalism by setting up administrative regions in Slovenia for once, and then we will be able to talk when the money comes into this region, in what way, where we will sort things out. Otherwise, it seems to me that all the concerns that your respected colleagues have said in the debate, considering the worth of it, but I do not see one such apparatus with which in the present division of Slovenia it would be possible to realize them in the light of the problems that lie ahead. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u65	Okay, thank you very much. My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with the co-workers. Colleagues and colleagues. Actually, if I didn't have a word at this point, I would have replicated. It is far from the truth that regionalism in Slovenia will solve the matter. A significant number of truths are found in the Law on Community Financing, when 28 municipalities receive 24 billion more. When you ask the Minister of Finance what he will do for the next financial year, he says: nothing. And that's just because, of course, some people don't agree. Then, if you look at the table, you can clearly see that this is Ljubljana, the center, the city, the centralization - I don't know what else I would use - which of those 24 billion has itself 14 billion over the appropriate use. Here lies the basic problem and, of course, the essence of the problem of such great dispersion, such great differences that are taking place. So not only here, but of course in other areas. The fact is, we were talking about extremes yesterday and today. We talked on the one hand about the huge corruption ties of politics, the judiciary, the economy, so that some can cheat largely and thickly, work in contravention of the legislation in force. The judiciary, the prosecutor in this area, does nothing if he does anything, then remains a case in court, and of course there has been no application in recent times. Today we are talking about what I have been alerting myself to since I was in Parliament: regional differences, differences in this small country. And of course it's not right, as it wasn't right yesterday, that I'm not going to say I was sitting on a sad bench or something like that, yesterday it's just the secretary-general, and today the minister for work and family, but the whole government should be here. And, of course, such broad parliamentary issues, which are raised, which are being discussed, are for the whole government. This government coalition is most responsible for differences. Since the differences are huge, which the ruling coalition recognises and speaks today, this government coalition is the only one responsible. Finally, in her programme, which she wrote three years ago in the area of regional development, she stated that the main objective is to create conditions for reducing regional development differences. But when someone in this National Assembly tells me today that 190 more billion have been used in this area in the last year, of course, I ask in what way. It is clear that my question of getting this review of the use of these almost 300 billion funds for regional development by municipalities will be divided to see where and how it went. Today, when someone from Liberal Democracy tells me that there are 66,000 dollars per capita for regional development, that is, for the congregation I run, there are 150 million. Please! In ten years, the congregation did not receive as much development funds as it did in one year! If that were the case, then I would not at this time - but now I will go on some concrete matters - at this point beg and go around all government institutions for - you will say, given these billions, given the 300 billion - 60 million where we could make a project that is certainly one of the regional projects that can bring new jobs, but, of course, not even those 60 million funds can be provided. In this year and last year or next year, there are no means to reduce these differences in those municipalities, in that statistical region -- you're talking about statistical regions, and I have to say, who invented the statistical regions? Is it not the State Assembly that will decide these matters? Who made that up? Neither did the government take the decision or at least they didn't say it was, maybe it was a secret government decision, I don't know. We never talked about this in the National Assembly. There has never been any agreement on any statistical regions. Because, as Christmas had previously said, some things within statistical regions are covered, covered, and things are not as real as they should be. I will also remind you of some of the things that the government is responsible for in this demographically endangered area. In fact, why is she responsible? Because it would be necessary to take into account that law already referred to by counterpart Janš, or to take into account or consider and have a law on reducing unemployment or promoting coherent regional development, which some fellow Members of the co-signatory had already been in the previous mandate, that the workers of the Swan Delta Ptuj could probably still be working today. How much money did it take? The D.O.D. was here trying to help get this thing out of its misery. But when Swan used these funds, he finally sent the workers to the stock market, and I wonder if anyone was responsible. The exact same thing is happening with Mura today. I'm afraid Mura won't follow the same scenario as she did. However, for a huge amount of resources coming from the state budget, it later turns out that banks are being rehabilitated, these and other liabilities are being paid, and workers and workers, of course, remain on the road. And these are, of course, the largest generators then increasing these differences. Well, maybe that'll be the end of it. In such a country as ours, so small, with 2 million inhabitants, it is unacceptable that we have everything centralised in Ljubljana: from ministries, from the economy, from finance and, of course, clearly, also from politics. Until we truly come to share certain areas in this small country, so long, of course, is not expected to reduce the increase in these structural differences, increase the quality of life. As long as this is the case, we can only expect what is forecast for tomorrow or tomorrow - that is, at an extraordinary meeting of the Basic Accidents Act, a colleague and a colleague who is supposed to be a roofing act, adopted on a rapid basis and adopted only to obtain nothing for the damage suffered in precisely those areas where the differences are greatest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. There is now a colleague of Potrč, who is also giving up the debate, and also a colleague of Terčon or Germič, a colleague of Trophynik, is not there, nor is colleague of Kelemina. I hope it's not happening now that my colleagues aren't because they didn't expect it to be their turn. Comrade Webber? No, no, no. Then my friend Tanko has the floor. Please, Comrade Tank, it's your turn now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone. I also intend to contribute to some of the reflections in today's debate, which is about the great social differentiation between people and between parts of the country, and which is actually one of the most visible achievements of governments after independence. Despite the populism performances of prime ministers and ministers, despite the beliefs, interpretations and promises, the result of the spread of Slovenia is increasingly extensive and even more prominent. And perhaps symbolically, today, at the debate or at this point, they also started laying these black carpets across Parliament. It should be stressed that neither the government nor its top officials, such as the Prime Minister and ministers, are fully aware of or unwilling to be aware of the situation and situation in certain parts of the country, since otherwise they would not have implemented certain reforms that have affected exclusively peripheral and remote areas of the country. In the last two, three years, individual administrative districts have experienced a number of blows, a lot of mercy arrows, imposed on them by a large government coalition through the process of reforming the state administration. Under the password of coherent regional development and accessible and friendly public administrations, exhibitions, offices and other forms of organisation of state institutions at the local level are closed. It must be said that all these processes go completely beyond the desires, interests and needs of people and therefore run solely according to the will of the ruling policy. The concentration of functions is performed and this is exclusively in the public interest. By closing down the rural offices, the state is moving away from its authorities. Instead of maintaining or even strengthening the country's rural infrastructure, matters are concentrated on several key locations in the country. This, however, does not remove or deprive the population of the right to adequate access and use of the services of the State, but makes the relocation of offices significantly worse or even deprives them of jobs in the state administration. Quality professional and official jobs disappear from local environments, with which intelligence leaves, first temporarily, later permanently. They are not rare administrative areas where 30, 40 state jobs have disappeared with recent reforms. And no one is moved by the fact that many things have deteriorated with these reforms in several important circumstances. I come from such an environment alone, from the Ribnica, which has lost 50 official jobs only with reforms of state institutions in the mandate of this government. Let me mention only the abolition of certain expositions. Durs, MORS, Slovenian Armed Forces, Criminal Justice, Customs, Geodetic Administration, AP reform. And this job closure is likely to be followed by further rationalisation in the Office of Labour, perhaps also in the Centre for Social Work. These jobs require at least secondary vocational education, for more than half of the higher vocational education. And in this case, the country is the one that causes the brain to escape from the countryside into the city. I must admit that I am afraid, but the people of our municipality are also afraid, of all the follow-up to the programme of friendly administration and consistent regional development, as it is the country that has abolished the most jobs, much more than they have caused or have lost them all during this period. Any State as normal would provide compensation or for the simultaneous replacement of jobs and would offer other state programmes or other alternative jobs. This country has a lot of these programmes, but it concentrates them back on the larger centres and thus only adds to the severing of people from the countryside to the city. The area run by Minister Dimovski also plays an important role in this segment, as it could dissipate or prioritise the project to build various social institutions in the areas most lost through reforms. Here I am thinking mainly about building capacity at home for the elderly or also affected citizens and awards, where you certainly have a decisive influence as a minister. I expect you to prepare an analysis of the reforms of the missing jobs in the regions of Slovenia and also to contribute to the design of the unsuspecting rural situation. I believe that this review could be done relatively quickly and also be delivered to the national assembly and to the affected congregations. But it can't all, in fact, hide these bad economic policies for a billion-dollar and media-enhanced donation in Mura. Mura and Pomurje need help, but they're not the only ones, and they're not lonely. These things need to be done a little more systematically, analytically, and I believe that in the end there might also be some success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Minister of State! Which is where I'd like to continue where my colleague Sušnik ended up. I strongly agree that there is a need for a comprehensive treatment of regional policies, problems and, above all, what to do to make the situation better, because only criticism and collective guarantees will not fix the situation. That is why it would be in the autumn, after we have received the government's comprehensive report on the implementation of regional policy, not to repeat, but to organise a debate where representatives and government representatives will also be present from other sources. When we speak of dissatisfaction, I am joining myself and among those who have been critical of regional policy for all the years I have been in this National Assembly, either in coalition or opposition, and also today I claim that not only during this coalition, but in the entire period of independence Slovenia did not have an effective regional policy. Moreover, I would argue that in all success stories, regional policy was one of the stories of failure. However, colleagues and colleagues, those who say that this coalition is primarily to blame, that the situation is as it is, are unjust. Let's at least be objective. Almost all the parties except the young and the SNS were in government during these ten years. You can also help those who have been or are in opposition to improve regional policy. It must be said that the situation has improved. Right during this coalition. Let me just give you a few facts so you don't have to think about it. Firstly, in recent years there has been an increase in the budget for regional policy, together with European Union funds. Secondly, institutions established for regional development have started to participate and programmes are being developed. I'm sorry, it's too slow, in my opinion. Despite all the legitimate criticisms, ministries have become more effective and it is good that more emphasis is placed on regional policy in the organisation of the government. When we receive the report, of course we can assess the impact of this, because, of course, only the results are valid. And, last but not least, although there are a lot of criticism in these days for the Brdo meeting and for the government's programme for successful integration into the EU, it is encouraging that between the six priority points a specific point is aimed at regional policy and regionalism. In order not to just say again, let me mention one positive example in which the government has been involved or led by the real ministry, which today is present with its report and answers questions, this is the "Eskada" project in Gornja Radgona, which could be referred to as some kind of pilot project, which can be a model of the following projects, both by its objectives and by its way of working on this project. This project provides more than 215 new jobs in the area with the highest unemployment. Murje, as we know - these data have already been given, I would not repeat them - has the greatest unemployment in the region of Maribor, and the most recent area in the area of Raggon has also had the highest unemployment in the framework of Pomurje. This project helps to solve the problem of overworked workers in the textile and coffee industry in Pomurje and allows the restructuring of Mura and is directed also to other content very developmentally and in the long term. Let me finish with just one sentence. I think we are making a mistake when we do not understand or do not want to understand that regional policy and regional development are linked to regional organisation. I'm not talking about cohesion regions, I'm talking about landscapes. In theory and practice it is known, colleagues and colleagues - and let's look around the countries how they are organised - to do so. And if we continue to push our heads into the sand and remain the status quo, this will unfortunately continue to hinder more coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you. Franca Onion is not here. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! There's been a lot of talk. But the fact is, there are imbalances in societies everywhere. However, it doesn't matter if 50% of the difference is between the lowest and highest layers at a high level, when even the lowest ones still have enough money to survive, or at a very low level where the lower layer is virtually unable to live anymore. And so it is with us and with us, so these differences are too great. The fact is, we were living with some kind of password when in an unbalanced media space this password became a point and, I'll say, a reality. Dispersion has a long beard on us. If I start at the hardware store, where it later turned out that we didn't actually save the hardware or the workers at the hardware store, but we were saving banks that had completely different accounts. And these banks, it is said, have even become gravediggers in individual industrial branches or industrial companies that are not really interested in workers. The fact is that later we switched to taking care of the economy just like that, even though the companies that didn't need to do it were in bankruptcy, but because there was such a way of thinking that we could then own cheaply. And if the statement by the Attorney General, which says that big shit isn't a crime at all, not only did she say it, it's also become a way of thinking and a pattern of thought, a way of acting. That's what's worst. The fact is that our government in the negotiations with the European Union had no strategy at all to choose some transitional periods for individual branches, as far as I know, it was the only one for gambling; what it would look like, otherwise I don't know, but I do have such data. Other countries have done quite differently. And today, after ten years, virtually the same authorities, the same political options, we are in a situation where this policy option, which has been in power for ten years, begins to talk about the fight against corruption. I believe this is necessary, and here I certainly must admit that I support the government here, but what I mean to say about this is that this is the greatest proof that this was a wrong policy. That's the biggest piece of evidence. If things were really going better, as we have already heard today, then I am sure that this same political option would not start talking about the fight against corruption, because it would not be necessary, because if a year, two, three, or four things were to come out, but it did not work out. Things are getting worse, they're like a beach that's rolling like a snowball and things are getting harder and more uncontrollable. Here I would mention the impertinent statement of ministers, Dr. Tee Petrin, who is a worker on the verge of survival who struggles to keep his job, says that the opposition is the one who is to blame for not coming to their company or to that area for more money. There's only one third of us here. How can one third block a two-thirds majority? Gentlemen, it is rude not to use any other expression, and to mislead the Slovenian public. The fact is that even today, when the government has recognised corruption, it talks about belt tightening and even travel costs are one of the important dimensions of how this problem will be resolved. No way! It is true that it is also necessary for travel costs, but it is such a minimal thing to hang it on a big bell - this will not work. That's not serious at first. Gentlemen, we're gonna have to make a mirror, put it in a fixed place, look at it, and be ready to accept this image, no matter what it is. And today is a hard picture, we're talking about corruption, and we're willing to do something about it. In the Social Democratic Party, we put forward a proposal for a convention where such a mirror should be set up, identify our image and then take from this image what we want to achieve as a basis. If this image isn't the one we want. But again, it's not the right thing to do. There are some budgets that are already prepared in advance and this is a good programme. If it were a good programme, then it would not be necessary to adopt a programme adopted by the ruling coalition on Sunday. These programmes, including budget programmes, have taken us as far as we are now. And that's the biggest problem. And if this is the vision of the current government that has led us so far, then something really has to be done. In the end, that's all I'd say. It's nice to have a lot of educated personnel, as one of my colleagues said before. That's very positive. But these people must also have a job. If they don't have a job, then all knowledge is thrown away. And we are very close to us that we simply don't know how to use a lot of personnel and we don't want their knowledge, we don't want to, we don't know, or whatever, we're not ready to accept their knowledge because we have some political basis. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I don't see Mrs. Malovros here. Mr. Jerovšek. Excuse me? Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Maybe just another sentence to that supplement, which was a lot of talk. I would only point to this, although some others have already pointed out that all these problems we are facing today are not really from yesterday. I myself have actually been a member of the committee, including the Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee already in the previous mandate and also now, or for the economy, and I can tell you that we have dealt very much with the issues of the labour intensive industries and so on, we have adopted a number of conclusions already in 1997. Go look back, you will see some, including predictions, analyses have been given from these labour intensive industries, such as textile and manufacturing, metal industry, then leather industry; what suggestions have all of these, real management and everyone else, and they knew the trends that will happen to the world in this area. And at that time, we warned the government that in this area, in some way, it was necessary to help and create environments for these companies, the conditions that they would be able to continue to operate, or that there would be appropriate restructuring of these companies, and that, in fact, these companies would move their physical workforce or their production to some more promising areas. And that's what happened today. Today we have come to a stage - I happen to be from Posavje, Mr Minister knows well, this has now happened, although all the time the companies have actually been slow to reduce their production programmes or to reduce production at home and have already moved certain things elsewhere, unless otherwise they have been buying cheaper products in other countries, as others do, and have just been labeling and so on - this is more and more now. In fact, we are putting the "lon" of business elsewhere now; but simply despite a whole series of measures taken, what should have happened did not happen. It didn't happen. And now you know what the problems with these jobs are like in the Soviet Union, or in the Sevnica. People have simply stayed on the road - capital has its legitimacy, as I have already said a hundred times. What does the owner care if he puts 200 or 500 people on the road? He doesn't care because he has to pursue his economic goals, because if he continues to keep and hold 100, 200, 300 employees more than his production will fail, the whole company will fail. He can't let that happen. This is a completely economic calculation. Perhaps you are also not motivated, the authorities could not motivate existing owners, known owners to open up new activities, invest in other activities or whatever and hire their own workforce, restructure and hire it there. It was too little, because there was something, but we have not prepared ourselves for this moment in which we are living today; we are not enough. All of today's owners are, say, all of the capital - profits have been made in previous years. Go look: since 1996, since I have been monitoring these things in Parliament, profits, including good profits, have been generated, but owners have put these profits into other activities, beyond employment, such as restructuring their workers. You have not stimulated them with some additional impulses through direct discussions with them - I would even say so, with direct discussions with them - to stimulate them in this way, to devote their resources to restructuring their own workers, but the funds are being channelled either to abroad or to other companies. Of course, because then the workers got a job there on that account. In fact, it was a capital spill, a profit increase, etc. In short, look. All I'm saying is that even on the basis of all these promises you have, nothing will happen to me, but people will live. That's a fact. We'll survive. We will also survive at the bread and water if you want, but people will live and this is not the perspective of Slovenia. In this way, I do not think that in Europe we will have the opportunity and the opportunities we dream of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Andrej Habjan is next. I don't see him. Mr. Vizjak. Seven seconds is really short. Mr. Companion. He's not here. Mr. Sušnik - also 7 seconds. Proposer? Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I am pleased that we have opened up such an up-to-date, lively topic in Parliament, such as the problem of social issues, unemployment and unemployment in Slovenia. We have opened the topic to which the Slovenian government is hiding, although in fact the ink has not yet cooled on the programme that they have named the programme for effective entry into the European Union and where, under the chapter, measures to increase economic growth and employment have stated that the government must ensure the coordinated functioning of all policies that have a significant impact on the entrepreneurial environment, the labour market, and tax incentives, etc. That's how our government works in a coordinated manner. All the debaters, both from the position and the opposition, have found that today, with such a quorum, 40 debaters should sit here and ensure that Slovenia becomes one normal country, which will develop evenly, because in the last ten years development has gone backwards. Today everyone stressed that there is a terrible centralisation of capital and institutions in Ljubljana, and even the government has written here that the question is, if in conditions where the complete centralisation of institutions is in Slovenia, if we can follow globalisation. Who is to blame for the centralisation of institutions? Look, and I hope to say that we have achieved a lot with today's debate. That we've posted clear messages. And that we also order the government to do so when it writes in this document what it will do with regard to the law on regional development, in what way it will change it - just to find - that it intends to change it according to the methodology and the pattern by which it currently adopts the law on the correction of the costs of elementary accidents. It has sent to Parliament a shit nest that cannot be coordinated by the Infrastructure Committee at three meetings already because it is nothing like nothing. And in the same way, here he proposes a change of law. Establishment of regional development councils composed of representatives of local communities. There's too much institutionalization. Then go on - what's it all about? It's a pattern or like Cardel's reincarnation writing it. Once again, some institutions have been promised, some developmental worlds, and I don't know what else. There's too much institutionalisation, too many regional development agencies! And now you're promising people something imaginary again. An even bigger institution, which I don't know who's going to sit in to spend all the money that's going to go into it just for the meetings. In this way you will not develop Slovenia! And this shows the irresponsibility of our authority. She is pleased that Ljubljana is glowing in marble, so she is completely satisfied; anything else can die in this country - it is clearly such a government strategy. However, I hope to say that, with this quorum today, we have given a clear mandate to the government and that, although the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not provide and allow us to take decisions in this matter, we have adopted conclusions legally in force; we have adopted conclusions that the resolution of the social and employment problems is not appropriate in this country; that the centralisation of capital and institutions is complete and causes serious problems and blocks coherent development. We have come to the conclusion from these discussions that young generations in all underprivileged regions do not have the same baseline opportunities neither for education nor for employment. That it is necessary to re-examine legislation that there is too little control over the distribution of this aid; that if the truth is that what the LDS authorities claim is that additional resources have been distributed here, then we wonder where this money went, that where it should be known, it does not know that the pressure is greater every day, that mothers are constantly more weary when they know when they declare on TV that their sons will no longer be able to go to school in Ljubljana. Gentlemen, I think we've accepted again the need to make a catharsis. The authorities need to look in the mirror, for whom they do what they do what they do and in whose name they are in power. Let him work and rule in the name of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you. Now I'm asking for the government's answers. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much. To all of us, to all Members, of course, we have written a lot of this down for a debate that has been very rich today, very varied, thank you. We have also written a lot of this down with our co-worker, so that we can look at and look at the possibilities that, of course, improve existing policies, are more targeted, more targeted and, of course, more effective. In my view, indeed, the debate has shown a great degree of linkage between the economic system or economic policy, regional development and, of course, social and social policy. In any case, many debaters have summed up the idea that, in fact, social policy and the social situation are in fact the result of such or different economic policies, such or different regional policies and that, in fact, what I said in the introduction is that the Ministry of Labour in some way solves social differences and does not create them. In any event, the discussion - and I can say so - showed a high degree of link between the gross domestic product in the region and the unemployment rate and then the financial and social assistance. In front of me is a table showing this high degree of collectorship for those regions which have a high level of gross added value or gross domestic product per capita, generally have lower unemployment as a collector and, of course, lower levels of monetary and social assistance in the proportion of the population it acquires. This is why, of course, the basic engine and the basic incentive, the basic instrument when we talk about reducing differences, such and different ones, of course in promoting growth and promoting gross domestic product, and of course for Slovenia, which enters the Union, it is important that it cultivates and promotes such an economic policy, which will also lead to a high level of gross added value for an employee and thus, of course, enable appropriate technological development. However, I am obliged to say or answer a few questions or some questions that have been presented here, and I would also like to give some answers. First and foremost, I have, if you will allow, brought together some, practically, discussions on three basic topics, of course concerning the ministries of work and to which I will try, of course, in detail or where the numbers need to be answered. First of all, the issue of social transfers. When we talk about social transfers, of course, we talk about how, in fact, social transfers, social assistance can be used as effectively as possible to reduce the level of the so-called threshold of poverty and, of course, to the greatest extent possible, to those who need it, to make it possible for them to have a better life and to say a more satisfying life. I can say and draw on the analysis that we have done together with the experts from the Institute of Economic Research that social transfers or social assistance have increased significantly over the past 10 years, as regards the objectives of social transfers. This means that at the moment, in the first or second decile of those who receive social assistance, practically more than 70% of those who receive this aid. Let me say that this number is, in fact, very comparable to those in countries that care or who have a high level of effectiveness of social assistance. Let me say, given the fact that several times there was also a connection to the issue of wage differences, that in fact social transfers were in some way mitigating the differences that arise in wages. This is said to be the case in working income, and this is also what this analysis shows. This is said to be the way social transfers reduce the differences that would otherwise be greater on the basis of labour income alone. It is therefore important that we also talk in Slovenia about the share of social assistance or social transfers in a gross domestic product, which has been stable for several years and amounts to 26.6% of gross domestic product, a comparable share in the European Union is 27.3%, but we note that the level of efficiency of transfers in Slovenia is more than in the European Union. When we talk about this issue, of course, the question is always whether we are using them effectively or whether the costs for using these social transfers - so-called cost-effectiveness - or: economic - so-called transaction costs - are also possible to say that they are cost-effective. That's why we asked the Swedish experts to review this, and they found that for this amount of transfers - I forgive myself for using the numbers, but I think I can answer the question most definitively - 0.7% of the gross domestic product used, while Europe uses 1.1% of the gross domestic product as part of the costs it uses to then use these social transfers. The fourth question, when we are talking about social transfers, is the issue of records. It is clear that with the issue of records, with clarity, who obtains individual transfers or social assistance, we want to make, as you said, social assistance also fair, not only efficient, not only targeted, but also fair. For almost two years we have been implementing a programme to inform these so-called social transfers. In this information system, there are nine so-called blocks for each type of social transfers, and gradually we create these blocks, so that we will then have a whole information system, which will also be able to answer the question of how much an individual acquires from a different address, and then it will be possible to establish a substantially fairer system in this context of the implementation of such a policy. Well, despite the fact that I am now talking about numbers, I am talking about macroeconomic data and so on, it is also important for us to have an individual picture of each individual. I'm not just saying this as a flosculo, but I would like to say that it's actually very important for us to have this so-called contact with people. In doing so, I would say that it is very important, at least for us, to build and build a government network of social services, social institutions and NGOs. I already said in the introduction that we are actually doing a whole series of moves on government networks, saying that we are upgrading the network of work centres, institutions for children with special needs and so on. At the same time, funding for non-governmental institutions has also moved to almost billions of social protection programmes this year, where groups of groups such as groups with so-called mental health and social rehabilitation and the like are particularly exposed, would not be listed because they are a whole species. However, we believe that, in fact, this follows the so-called new role of the country in the implementation of social policy, and above all, there is an important partnership here, so that these social networks will somehow catch all, if I may so express myself, who would need this service or such services. It is important for us, therefore, that every individual, every citizen and citizen in Slovenia, who needs some help at a certain time, also obtain this assistance. And as life takes place and as changes over the last ten and more years are also very intense, each of us at various times is in different situations where the state needs or society in one way or another, or in the case of illness, or in the case of age, or in the case of youth, or in the case of addiction, and so on. And I think that today's debate has actually shown that there is really no difference here between us. We all want a social state that will reduce the risks of life, of course, and many times we do not have an impact and, of course, we find ourselves in such or different situations. Of course, the second topic, around which there was a lot of talk today, is the question of employment. Our basic starting point is that the best social policy is, of course, a employment policy. However, it has been shown that, in fact, it is possible in individual programmes implemented by the State to achieve some level of employment, but of course without the initiative of the private sector, without new investments and so on, of course, it is not possible to establish growth rates that would absorb, in fact, all those on the labour market or on the labour market. So let me say in a nutshell that, despite the fact that a few doubts have been expressed concerning records and the like, our statistics, if we look at them, or after the so-called statistics of the international organisation of work or after registered unemployment, show some trend of decline. Not the kind that everyone would like, but the kind of circumstances that make it possible. Of course, it is clear to each of us that only by means - to say so - of the state budget, in one way or another cannot take all the initiatives that the private sector is supposed to take. This is, of course, faced with the reality of the recession in European, American markets and so on. The transition to the euro also had some implications. Although it is not my intention to make a deeper link here between economic growth and employment, this is a fact through which we cannot now. It seems to me that by increasing effective policies, we maintain active employment policies in a way that allows gradually falling registered unemployment, especially with data, that the proportion of those who are long-term unemployed is lower than it was that the proportion of older people is lower than it was, because we are also with some, I would say, additional measures of active employment policy have just been targeted in this direction. Now, as far as the problems in the labour market are concerned, they certainly represent, if we look at those who are unemployed, in the labour market, as soon as possible, those who have either an unfinished primary school or a completed primary school, or an unfinished secondary school, in fact the most in the labour market. It follows from this decision, which we have also incorporated into the active employment policy, that, to put it this way, those who are not properly educated are most at risk. Our answer is that we have increased the quota of the programme, the so-called 5000 to the 10,000 programme, so that as many as possible those who are uneducated, uneducated, unskilled for a particular job, are given the opportunity to be educated: whether they receive formal education or are properly trained or in some way qualified for a specific job. Well, it's important here, as my colleague Drobnic also mentioned, that it's a matter of flexibility. The fact is that, in fact, the Labour Relations Act has also increased the flexibility and flexibility of the job following analyses carried out by international institutions. However, it was our intention to ensure, in some way, a rather high level of job protection, in doing so, precisely so that the fundamental moment concerning job protection would not be lost. Now, as regards individual programmes, which are in some way important in active employment policy, let me say that we now also have in these additional measures, which are the basis for active employment policy, for 2003, and especially for 2004, especially for youth programmes, especially for older people, especially programmes for those most exposed to say so. At the same time, since 2002, for example, we have a special programme for textiles or textiles, where we have actually been able to enter the company before the transition to open unemployment, so it is said that an individual can obtain, as in the case of Escada, certain resources and requirements of employment policy without the transition being made through the employment office. It's a new measure. I believe that Escada is also an example, and some others may be an example of how employment policies can be implemented on a case-by-case basis on the basis of European employment policy. If it wasn't too long, I'd just say the following. For us, it is also particularly important that, in some ways, the transition, like those who receive social assistance, to employment. This has been particularly the case in the last period. This is the so-called flexibility of transfers or transfers, passive transfers that can also be used for active measures or active instruments. After that, in the last year, after this flexibilization, from the title, from the address where an individual receives financial social assistance, 18,000 individuals have gone to employment, which is essentially a significant number. In this way, those most in need of employment have also obtained this employment from this quota. Well, it is important that, in addition to these funds that are from the budget, it is very important that we also use "Phare" funds, where the main criterion is, believe me, the main criterion is the new job. So, all that was so far as a criterion, I don't know which wasn't clear, but for us, the main criterion is actually creating new jobs. This is also in line with European employment policy, with the so-called European Employment Policy Guidelines, which follow the so-called Lisbon Strategy, where we need to achieve certain objectives by 2010 and, of course, in this way, when we incorporate them into employment policy. Well, it is important that we also follow the fact that we also want to focus on new jobs in those cases where we are only acting as the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We started concessions for older people's homes last year. I hope that there will also be such an agreement in the Ribnica that, for the so-called social security institutions in the last year and a half, for two years, we have only employed 1,200 people on these welfare institutions. This means that two objectives are achieved: on the one hand, greater coverage through social services and, on the other hand, employment. In some cases, we have been able to use or employ overworked workers or workers from individual endangered industries, such as textiles, in cases of homes of older citizens or at home and similar assistance, is also a programme subsidized in the long term by the Employment Service. Let me say this, because there have also been some questions about control, evaluation and so on. We have taken this monitoring and evaluation programme very seriously. I said earlier about social assistance or transfers, we are in the process of building a so-called nine-block information system. It is particularly important, however, that in 2002 we started to evaluate all programmes through the Employment Service. With this we figured out certain, you could say, reserves. For example, the case that I am giving is an example of public works that were actually carried out by the so-called concessionaires or external collaborators who were preparing these programmes before last year. Since the previous year, they have been prepared by the institution itself. We have obtained a so-called effective rent of 400 million, which we have earmarked for the additional employment of people in public works programmes without any increase in employment in the Employment Service. The Employment Service has practically had no additional employment in the last three years. The additional tasks it performs are at the expense of increasing productivity or cost-effectiveness. Let me say what was also said in the debate that we would like to stress, above all, the role of concessionaires, employers in employment this year. I agree with you that it is very important that the private sector enters the labour market and that institutions in the labour market in some way also strengthen private institutions that can, with better cost-effectiveness, improve capacity utilisation and thus further reduce the level of unemployment on the market. The last part I'd like to briefly define is disability. Here I would say that we also approach this issue, which is part of a social picture, especially part of the image of a culture of a society, I could say, a civil card and the attitude towards persons with disabilities is very important here. I would say that in addition to the laws that we have already passed, this week the law on the employment and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities is practically completed. It is important here, as you also said, that as many disabled persons as possible, especially disabled persons, as their number is increasing most, should be included in rehabilitation first and later in appropriate employment. I hope that with the so-called Employment Rehabilitation Centres, which we would like to organise in accordance with the territorial principle, we will enable as many people with disabilities as possible who want to work and who want to come through the Employment Rehabilitation Programme to do so, and in time can also get a job. At the same time, we are also preparing a strategy for the employment of persons with disabilities by 2006, which will soon be on the same page. It is also in the working version when it has very precise objectives, what, in fact, and what groups of people with disabilities to employ. If I hadn't been too long, of course I'd have finished with that thought slowly. I would, of course, like to point out once again that when we talk about differences, there is always a question of some coordination between us and in some way always connected with some engine of development, which is economic growth in any case. That's why our approach is in fact such a way that, in any case, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] those local, national, international initiatives that will enable the creation of new jobs. [[...]] For us, it's a key character. New jobs, not at a level that I would say minimum wages, but jobs that would, of course, enable the basic survival of citizens and citizens, which would allow for normal development, which would also enable their families to develop normally and allow them to have further education, education and free choice, as we believe within the European Union. In that sense, I would like to conclude. Once again, I thank you for all the comments made, for all the initiatives made. As I said before, we will examine them thoroughly and, if we assess that they are meaningful, we will also include them in our programmes further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, thank you to his coworkers. I conclude the debate and thus also this item on the agenda. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the European Convention on the Territory. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u81	About the landscape, I thought we weren't on the same wavelength. [[...]] Once again, the proposal for a law on the ratification of the European Convention on the Landscape, item 18. A representative of the government? [[He doesn't want a word.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Would you like to speak to the committee rapporteur, Mr. Kacin? [[He doesn't want to.]] Presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Christmas? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jelinczych? [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Nigga? [[No, no, ……]] Bogomir the Grandchild? [[He's not here.]] Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. Please check your cards. Can you please ask my colleague, Mr. Petan, if you can give my card out of the slot? Thank you. Let's check the cards! We're voting! [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] We're voting please. [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] [[...]] [[Problems with the voting device.]] We're voting please. Presence 42. One more time. Let's vote next time. We're voting please. Of the 49 present, 44 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Portuguese Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and profit taxes with the Protocol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party. You want a word? [[You don't want to.]] There are no other applications for discussion. Since the parent working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. Let's vote. Of the 55 present, 51 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Summer Agreement on the Financing of 2002 of a Special Access Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development in the Republic of Slovenia - Sapard. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Now I think the government has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House. This bill provides for a financing agreement of €6.7 million. This was signed on 7 April 2003 in the presence of the Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u83	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u84	Mr Fischer. [[...]] Thus, in the areas of project selection for certain measures and for the provisions on the contact address, it is said to be a more technical adaptation of the title. The format and content of the quarterly report on irregularities that may occur in relation to the implementation of the Sapard programme and the address to which these reports are transmitted. As part of this amendment to the programme, it is also envisaged that Member States may decide or propose to modify or redistribute funds within negotiated values in the event of exceptional natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, collisions and reptiles. In doing so, I would like to stress the fact that in this case it is possible to increase co-financing by the European Union from 75 to 85%. Which also means for a concrete investment that the possibility of increasing the share of public funds from 50% to 75%, in this case the investor covers 25%. I am saying this because of the debate that has also been on this subject. This means that these funds can be channelled exclusively for investments or projects and not for direct coverage of damage. Of course, it is a condition that this change can be activated if the damage is at least 1,5 % of the gross social product. This refers to exceptional natural disasters, but it is not for adverse weather conditions such as drought, stomach, hail and frost. After considering the amendment of this law, the foreign ministry shall notify the European Commission by note and then the procedure for drawing up funds may also be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I find it very difficult in this atmosphere to do anything, but we will try to vote when the time is right. Does the rapporteur of the Foreign Policy Committee want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. The word has magic. Janez Kramberger doesn't want it. Sasha Patch? [[Not at all.]] Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u86	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to draw attention to something which has now been explained and interpreted differently by the Committee on Foreign Policy. When we discuss the ratification of the annual agreement on the financing of the specific accession programme for agriculture and rural development in the Republic of Slovenia, known as Sapard, last time we touched on the external policy committee 'opportunity in the event of an extraordinary natural disaster, as provided for in Article 16'. At that time, the Foreign Policy Committee was assured that the case of drought could by no means be taken into account. Here I must say that interpretation is different today, and on this basis I find that the government has been negotiating poorly in this area. Last time it was said that in the case of the flood, only Slovakia and the Czech Republic realized this article. I see no reason why an article in force here should apply in general to all members of the European Union. And if our country - I'm not saying that drought is large enough - is a natural disaster, then our country must participate and demand the opportunity to participate. In the country, however, we are currently enacting a law to remedy damage in the event of natural disasters. We have already found that this is not similar to the law, that it has been brought into Parliament as a shit nest, in order to help those who have suffered the most damage, and that even at that time our government cannot work in a coordinated manner, even though it is in that document, about the best approach to the European Union written by Mr Rop, they wrote that the government will work primarily in coordination. There are pronounced cases of uncoordinated action and I fear for the fate of the country in the presence of such a coordinated government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Is there anything else the government would like to add to this? Please. We don't have any other debaters.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. The possibility of a proposed amendment to the programme relates to exceptional natural disasters, such as reptiles, earthquakes, collisions and floods. However, it does not apply to adverse weather conditions where we consider drought, stomach, hailstone, and cold. This is said not to be the case with the possibility of a change. However, if those changes related to exceptional accidents that have already been mentioned, including floods, these funds can be analysed into an increased share of public funds in individual investments and therefore there is no possibility to pay in general to remedy the consequences. Of course, the fact that funds have already been identified and negotiated on the basis of a common value or an individual annual agreement is no longer possible to change the total value.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u89	Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote please. Let's vote! Of the 55 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representative of the government. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence of the proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia by crediting the University of Love, the University of Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, hired to co-finance the enlargement and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment and to re-enact the student's former powers - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, on behalf of the Government. Anton Zunič, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. With the adoption of this law, the Republic of Slovenia will provide a guarantee for university credits in Ljubljana up to a total of 5 billion and 250 million tolars, the University of Maribor to a total of billions of principals of 750 million tolars and the Student Organisation of Slovenia to a total of 3 billion tolars with corresponding interest and credit costs. In fact, it is a way of financing through credit, which allows to bridge a certain period to accelerate the construction of Slovenian student homes and the necessary capacity. The Republic of Slovenia will open this law to the University of Maribor and Ljubljana, through a co-financing organisation for the renovation of student capacities under relatively favourable conditions, to rent loans for the purpose of co-financing the extension and updating the spatial conditions and technological equipment of both universities. It is therefore a matter of investing in knowledge, it is resources that will ensure the payment of credits by providing an additional State guarantee. Since the interest rate levels must be comparable to the interest rate and credit costs with the State guarantee, it is from the investor's point of view for an extremely favourable source, but we also advocate the logic of the liability to be borne by the concrete investment operator. We insist on a subsidiary guarantee decision. Such a guarantee will contribute to an increase in the liability of the users of the funds, with loans opening up the possibility of making investments faster, and therefore, in our view, it is necessary to insist on subsidiarity. For a specific borrower during the period of repayment of the loan and the implementation of the investment, greater liability for the direction of repayment of the leased loan is thus reflected directly in the financial statements of the borrowers. This is in the balance sheet, the success balance and the cash flow, while at the same time excluding the emergence of a possible automatic transfer of responsibility at any time to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr. Pucko? [[No, no, ……]] Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr. Janez Podobnik, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly. The Slovenian People's Party Group will contribute its votes and support the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for credits from the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the student organisation of Slovenia. It is clear from the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself, as well as from the performance of the Secretary of State, that despite the fact that the law has only a few articles, the procedure for dealing with the labour force itself has been quite lively, with the cooperation of our secretariat for legislation or the legal and legislative service with its comments. The Committee has adopted some amendments and has also reformed the law, so that we are confident that the adoption of this law will allow the new population of students coming to study to live in a more appropriate, modern study of suitable living conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Jožef Bernik will present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! For a little while. The matter has been dealt with in the working body, this is said in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. This procedure seems a little strange to me, because the government will give the guarantee for the rents they will rent to the university and for the student organisation. Nowhere is it written exactly how this loan will be returned, but I believe that if this loan is not returned, the State will step in and assume these commitments. More oddly, however, it is with student homes, for which the student organisation is also supposed to rent credit and, of course, then sign the contract. But it's not clear where that money's gonna come from to come back. Student work will cost 2% more if this law is passed. And that's what this loan is supposed to come back from. This is a strange way of funding, especially because it is not exactly said what things universities will invest in. Here it is said in this report that the equipment is outdated and so on and so on. This is probably explained somewhere in a long-standing development programme that runs until 2008. However, I do not know whether there has been a clear definition of why this money will go there. It seems to me that it would be very useful when we approve of these loans, to learn a little more about what universities will do with it, and on the other hand what the student organisation will do with this money when it trains or improves various housing facilities. The other thing that's also a little weird is that the student organization is going to have to deal with it. I think it's been a state problem so far. Surely some of the things proposed for this law are unclear, but I would say that we cannot turn against students and we hope that they will accept this matter responsibly and also pay them responsibly. Those entrepreneurs who have to pay 2% more will be hard, but I think it'll work out. What are the students gonna get out of this and we'll see in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u96	Your Honors are here! True, some time ago, this National Assembly faced about the same substantive issue as regards guarantees in connection with Darsa. I am speaking because, in the case of Darsa's guarantee for the construction of motorways, we had Members in the form of a law or in the form of material prepared a better review in the form of a financial picture. However, as far as the content of today's guarantee proposal is concerned, in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that we cannot compare it with the Dars case because it is an investment in knowledge. According to our assessment, such investments are one of the best works the country can do. The fact is that it is a long-term commitment of the country and thus a long-term impact, for which at least in the Slovenian National Party we sincerely hope that it will manifest itself in its best light. The proposed material highlighted two arguments why to support it. Firstly, rapid adjustment to the European Union's requirements. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already said several times that this does not represent a basic and main argument. However, we agree with another argument, or with another area, which says that if we approach the guarantee, we would go in the direction of developing studies, the scope of studies and research activities, including residence in any way. This is precisely why and because of the increasing role of the country in the field of higher education, we will support, on the one hand, an irregular financial obligation or a potential financial obligation in the Slovenian National Party. In any case, we would like to know more about the source of credit and the way or the simulation of the probability of the burden of the state budget by the proponents or the Ministry of Finance. We believe you've done this simulation in the Ministry of Finance, and I'd like you to introduce it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Surely the material base of our students is getting worse and fewer students are able to pay for profitable rental apartments. Given the high growth of students in recent years or in the last ten years, the old capacities are too small, the growth of new ones is smaller and fully understandable, and the government's promise at the beginning of this mandate has been well received to build 5,000 student apartments in five years. Now we've landed at 2,500 apartments in ten years, or whatever, and we'll take credit for that. It's okay, we support, if not otherwise, at least this way things will move from a dead point. So a 7 billion-dollar loan guarantee for universities and premises, and 3 billion for student organisations, or to solve these issues. Of course, this law is somehow linked to point 24, which deals with the law on additional concessions or additional concession fees paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students. These works will be charged with 2% in order to recover funds. However, 1% of these funds will be earmarked for the repayment of credit to the student organisation, the second half, that is 1% of the earnings, students will have to deliver to the university and thus cover and co-finance university capacities, both spatial and equipment. We believe that this is unfair, that it is from a student's work, from this temporary, temporary work, from which many students really live and study to finance those things that have somehow been financed in the country's domain and under the burden or under the responsibility of the state budget. It's not that much of a profit. It's not such a big sum, but it's an unacceptable principle that's actually breaking the rules of the game. So far, it has been considered that student work benefits, that is to say the work that students do, are allocated to students for the functioning of the student organisation and their responsibilities. Now, for the first time in the history of this country, these resources will have to be pooled into the state budget and grease this insatiable hole in our national budget. It seems to me that this is a precedent that we shouldn't support because it's not good. He's really not good. Once again, it's not so much about the percentage that you're going to take on students from work. It is a principle that students will now co-finance university capacities on their own. This law will support that at least part of the matter will move from a dead point, but it is not a good way to burden a student's work.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the United List will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for credits from the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and student organisations of Slovenia, hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment and the renovation of student accommodation facilities. The fact is that the development of higher education has made remarkable progress in the last ten, fifteen years. The number of students has tripled since the early 1990s. More and more high school students are continuing their studies at higher and university levels. The number of outstanding students has increased dramatically, and interest in studies among older candidates has also increased. The strategic objectives of the development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia are very ambitious. A good year ago, in the National Higher Education Programme, we stated as the main strategic objective that by 2005 the proportion of the employed population should be increased by 25 per cent, with higher, higher, or postgraduate education. This is how we approach the most developed countries in the world. At the same time, we decided that the share of the population in tertiary education should be increased over the next ten years, meaning that 35 students per 1,000 population should be enrolled in different forms of tertiary education, and that 50 per cent of each generation should be enrolled in different forms of tertiary education. However, we will only be able to achieve such high-level objectives through greater investment in knowledge and development. However, the multiple effects of such investments have proven to be successful in many other areas. Therefore, I do not agree that investment in social activities, in education, science, health and culture is simply consumption, as even some economists tell us. In order to implement the National Higher Education Programme last year, we adopted a law on basic development programmes in the field of education and science from 2003 to 2008, which provides the basis for the expansion and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment of higher education institutions in the country. With the guarantee law, the Republic of Slovenia allows the University of Ljubljana to rent a total loan of 5 billion and 250 million tolars, the University of Maribor for 1 billion and 750 million tolars. These funds will be used to co-finance the expansion and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment of both universities of 3 billion tolars and the student organisation of Slovenia for the renovation of student housing. The Guarantee Act will be supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. We will also support the law on additional concession fees paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students, which is directly linked to this and will be dealt with under point 24. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Marko Diaci, too. It's a young people's party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. As my colleague has already said before me, this law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for credits from the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the student organisation of Slovenia is a twin by law on additional concession fees paid for the occasional and temporary work of students. It is difficult to debate this point now, because the agenda is a little bit wrong, at least in my opinion, it is conceived, because point 24 should actually be before this point. So at this point in the debate, I will give up, and I will continue at the 24th point, because that is the basis. And this guarantee is a consequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I note that no amendments have been tabled and adopted in the second reading, so we are moving on to the third reading of the draft law in the context of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments are tabled in the draft law, the third reading of amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is inconsistent so that we can go to the vote. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u104	In our presentation of the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group to this Act, we also raised the issue of the source, because the fact is that we are talking about 10 billion Slovenian Tolars if we connect all three credits or all three loan applicants. I would ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia once again nicely if it defined and if it tells the simulation what will happen if the guarantee is made. This will become a burden on the state budget in such a case, and I do not know now, it seems very irresponsible to me that, despite the fact that this is an area of education, we are putting this kind of burden on the state budget and acting like it is not. I would really like to get an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as to the likelihood that the burden of the state budget will come and from which item you intend to cover such obligations. It is true that in the content of the bill you spoke in part about the method of payment or creditworthiness of the University of Maribor, the University of Ljubljana and the Student Organization, but the fact is, at least after our assessment, that it could happen. We would like to clear that fear before the vote. Therefore, we ask you to enlighten us or to inform us of the possibility of charging the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u105	We are in third reading: No amendments have been tabled in the framework of the urgent procedure and it is not possible to discuss this. If the Secretary of State wants to give a brief explanation, I'll give him my word. You are not obliged, do you want to give a brief explanation? Please. A very brief explanation, and then we'll go to the vote on the law. Please, very brief explanation, no discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u106	Ladies, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. At the Ministry of Finance, we prepared an depreciation plan for all three loans providing for a moratorium for the period described in the law and also for the final repayment of the loan by all three institutions by 2015. We have taken the resources into account in the simulation.Of course, we leaned on and insisted on deciding on the subsidiary form of the guarantee, just to significantly reduce the likelihood of paying this loan indirectly through the cashing of the guarantee. This probability is reduced by the sources of funding that we have taken into account in this simulation. These resources were co-financing universities, then additional resources from the university's own resources and additional resources from the student organisation, which were also listed here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u107	I'll give you a word, Comrade Diaca, in explanation of vote. Now we're going to go to the vote, and I'm asking, is there anyone besides my colleague Diacia who wants a word? First of all, colleague Diaca, explanation of vote before the vote on the law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. As I mentioned earlier, it is quite a problem to decide on this guarantee. As I mentioned earlier, this is due to a law that will only be dealt with at point 24. I will therefore ask a rhetorical question in this explanation of vote, because the government representative will probably not be able to answer me. I would like to know how you will return the loan that will be leased by the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana? Will these loans be repaid by students through so-called contributions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u109	Anybody else want to explain their voice? The National Assembly will now vote, please? [[...]] Mag. Squirrel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u110	It is not possible to oppose the construction of homes because they are absolutely necessary, nor is the equipment of the university or universities. However, in such a way of solving, without the necessary basic resources, all on credit, while at the same time hanging all of this on a student's work and including a civil organisation, a student organisation - in this way, forgive yourself, it is impossible to build things seriously. Really, the government doesn't have the right plan here. The university of study as well as the dormitory are owned by the state. There will be ownership problems, and the question will also arise if there is a problem with the student organisation, which can guarantee how it can fulfil its obligations. The plan is politically likely to appeal to the people, and the implementation is extremely problematic. I hope that this thing will not go wrong, but especially because we will have to take a closer look at the regulation of student work before we enter the European Union. Look at what is in the European Union and you will have the answer to how the European Union would view such work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u111	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you. I will, of course, support this law, mainly because in the last few years the number of students has increased by 100%, from 35,000 to over 70,000. The pressure was now in the first years, they're moving to the second year, the pressure of the first year stays. In Slovenia we have recently had such an explosion of students who want to study that they no longer have the resources in the state budget to meet these needs. Because of this, it is one of the ways by this law that this gap that is currently emerging, and I think that the magic numbers of 100,000 students will never be reached, but that we have reached a climax and we need to act now and here. That's why I think this marriage came at the right time to settle this thing. I will certainly, by pressing the 'yes' button, contribute to solving this more than problematic situation at universities as far as space is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u113	Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support this proposal because it seems to me that there is one thing that the European Union does not have, and we have it quite well and very well saved with us, and in particular with regard to this work or the participation of students in our own education. And on condition, as we have already said in our client, there will be no tuition and other burdens for students, but in fact we have 100,000 students, extraordinary and regular together. 100 grand is a pretty number. The State already pledges to pay these obligations if, of course, student labour laws change. So here the state guarantees as a wedding for this and I think that there is no danger that this would remain at the expense of an organisation, so that it would pay for it itself. Students will also not be burdened by what my colleague has already said, but should first consider that law and make the matter more clear. Here goes the workload of employers by increasing this duty and in fact these loans that will be paid will also come from this, at least hopefully, work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u115	Can we make a decision? Please. The National Assembly will decide on the law. We're voting! We're voting on the law? May I have your attention in the hall, please? 65 present, 64 for and none against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Before we move on to the next item in the agenda, I am obliged to keep my promise from last night when I said that at about four o'clock I would tell you what the plans for the work of the National Assembly are today and tomorrow in connection with an extraordinary meeting. After consultations with the chairman of the committee and the leader of the parliamentary groups, we leave open the possibility for us to decide on the law at an extraordinary meeting tonight if only the infrastructure committee will carry out its task early enough. If this work is done, we'll sit down tonight. If there is any major opposition in this regard between colleagues, please inform the leaders of the groups of Members, or we will try this effort today. If we don't make it, tomorrow the National Assembly will be sitting at 10:00. 22. Agenda item - Proposal for a Act supplementing the Act on the System of Payments in the Public Sector. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? Yeah, I don't know. Okay, we'll keep coordinating. [[....]] I said something about a framework plan, nothing can change work without consensus. Surely, as we have tried to coordinate over the last few hours, we will see how the work will proceed. So don't worry. That's why I told you honestly, like I said last night, at four o'clock we're gonna try to look at the work plan. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Dr. Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, you have an introduction. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u116	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! As you may recall, last year this National Assembly adopted a law on the public sector wage system. This law laid down in the transitional provisions that it shall apply from 1.1.2004, and in Article 52 of the transitional provision expressly provides that until the application, the application of the law, i.e. until 1.1.2004, the salaries of public servants and officials may be paid under the then applicable rules and collective agreements. During this time, as you have certainly been monitoring, the government's proposal to negotiate with the public sector's trade unions to replace the August increase in salaries agreed last year with an additional pension premium. In order to be able to pay our salaries in accordance with this agreement, we have agreed with the unions and, of course, it is necessary to establish a legal basis for this legal basis and therefore a new Article 52 is needed. This amendment, which we propose, would allow for a possible agreement with the union on this replacement of the August increase with the pension premium, so we are proposing a formulation that makes this possible. Negotiations are ongoing, not yet completed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u117	Just a moment, Minister. Can you turn off the microphone over there because it interferes with the work. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u118	I'm concluding. [[...]] There is a possibility that this agreement can be reached and that it can be applied by means of a amended law, so we propose this small amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy Committee has considered this proposal. The rapporteur, Comrade Wolf? [[No, no, ……]] Then we go to a presentation on the positions of the groups of Members. Comrade Trofenic was the first to be written. [[He doesn't want a word.]] You have the floor to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Minister-in-Office, your co-worker, your colleagues, your colleagues. Yesterday's debate revealed a lot of things. Today, a proposal with or to a comment, an amendment of a committee that has only four and a half lines, is added to our attention. If you read them, you'd think it was okay, thank God. Very simple. However, if we look at the opinion of the legislative and legal service and look at the few comments that were on the committee, the picture and the situation are completely different. I do not want anyone to encourage me to worry about the democratic party of Slovenian pensioners DeSUS only for pensioners and pensions. This amendment concerns not only 140 000 employees in the public sector, but also many others directly. Are we aware of those who have read the law once again, those two, three important articles that are not taken into account by this amendment of Article 52 at all? I allow myself to comment that these four and a half lines are so written that you have to read them very thoroughly, not just, but to study to understand what this is all about. This is about alerting the applicants and all those who have agreed to vote on what has been proposed to violate as many as two articles of the current law. Look at Article 4 and see Articles 5 and 6. Article 5, paragraph 4, let me remind you, because it is very important. Maybe someone will tell me why you're pointing that out. I caution because I am responsible for what will be adopted, but also if we are voted in favour of this motion in the parliamentary group, then we have the opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court, to initiate a constitutional dispute that will certainly succeed in the request. But when will it be his turn? The train will be driving after that beautiful song far away. But let me really read Article 5, paragraph four, which says, "The pay grade values are normally harmonised once a year. The level of harmonisation shall be agreed with the public sector collective agreement. The negotiations shall begin no later than 1 May and shall normally be completed no later than 30 days before the deadline set for the submission of the draft State budget to the National Assembly." And most importantly, "Each time the value of salary classes from the salary scale, coordinated in accordance with the preceding paragraph, shall be determined by law." Now, please listen. "If negotiations and other procedures established by the public sector collective agreement are not completed the deadline referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article", I have therefore read it and "determinate the level of harmonisation and the value of wage classes on the basis of the government's salary scale and the national assembly". And now, with this amendment to Article 52, there is still a violation of Article 6 and a valid one, and I will only read the most important part because it has only two lines. Here he says: "Social partners can agree that part of the funds for the harmonisation of basic salaries are intended for the payment of premiums of voluntary pension insurance" So part of, but not in any way, the overall harmonisation, and this is constitutionally controversial, and I hope that I can say something else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of New Slovenia will be given by Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The main purpose of the urgent procedure for supplementing the law on the public sector wage system, which we adopted a year ago, is to reduce inflation in the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular to eliminate the imbalances between public sector wages, we are convinced by the proposaler. Negotiations are under way between the government and the public sector unions to compensate for the agreed harmonisation of public sector salaries in August by introducing additional pension insurance for all 139,000 public servants. He's been feeling a lot of distrust from the unions lately. Some believe that we cannot lose the trust of trade unions in order to complement the law on the public sector wage system with the third paragraph of Article 52, which should allow for an annex. As of 1.8.2003, biodiesel should be provided for public servants with a planned wage adjustment of 2.4% and be paid with additional pensions. In what amounts, in what way, in what valorization, with what guarantee, there is little or nothing to know about it. Last year, one unionist felt that it was a perverse behaviour of employers if they wanted to pay premiums in part of the remuneration, while enjoying tax reliefs. This year's biggest employer, this is the country, is doing just that, creating three categories of citizens. One category of employer insurance, another state budget insurance and a third uninsured. Among the 200 000 so far additional pension insured are mostly all of the well-standing companies. If the government can reach agreement with the unions, another 139 000 employees in the public sector will then join the group. While the premiums will not be uncertain how high, in the old days a good half of the employees who already have higher salaries will be provided with additional insurance and will therefore have higher pensions. The remaining half of the employees are forgotten by unions and by the state. Employees in the labour-intensive sectors and unemployed are not exactly eligible for additional pension insurance, since employers are already too much of a cost and live the worst themselves. They receive low wages or do not receive them at all, so they cannot pay supplementary pension premiums from their own pocket. Their pensions will be the lowest, too, and they won't be able to survive with them. That's why the state will have an army of poor and powerless pensioners. If we offer some more content, we can also think of it this way: if the gross wages in the public sector were to increase and pay in August, then about half of them would be paid to public sector employees and the other half to health care institutions, pension institutions and taxes. The premium would be paid to public sector employees, and the health, pension and tax rates would therefore remain empty, while it is not negligible that the health department is in serious difficulties, the tax does not collect as much as it could, and as far as the pension is concerned, as much as the pensioner receives less, they will get the pensioners. Well, the pensioners will suffer, that's what the government thinks. Medical and tax bills, however, will only have to be filled in in some way. It'll have to be taken somewhere. Where, planners will make a change or supplement to one of the laws at the opportunity. It is simply a transfer or a transfer. It's a different view, a different item, some would call it a simple accounting trick. The Legislative and Legal Service points out the substantive reasons why such an addition to the law can cause confusion and also lead to actions. It points out that, if we want to stem from the purpose of the Public Sector Wage System Act, we must not introduce an exception to the law to amend the starting wages. However, if the union agreement succeeds, the Prime Minister will eventually be able to deliver on the promise he has made since the time of the ministry. Finally, I would like to say that we do not support such a proposal, or the addition of a law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you. Saša Peče has the floor for the position of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u124	Yesterday we had a debate on the salaries of some individuals, and in particular on those salaries that naturally rise in surpluses. I think that the common conclusion of all speakers yesterday was that there was a lack of transparency and imprudentness. Some of us argued that this was on purpose, but some of us said that it was because of the incompetence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the public sector's wage system will result in impreciseness and lack of transparency in the area of the public sector system, i.e. in the broad area of wages. Therefore, as with the explanation given by the minister and in the acts, we cannot take him for granted. However, we would like to define up to two things: for the first time, to use the argument that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the proposed addition, wants to reduce inflation, is, of course, ridiculous. The fact is that in this way, apart from impreciseness and impreciseness, you will not achieve, if the law is adopted, nothing. And second, what we want to point out, or in very simple words, will be the possible consequence of the law that, instead of raising wages or differences of course, a worker in the public sector would feel this in the pension premium. Of course, we find this to be pointless and, on the other hand, an unregulated legal area, especially for the proposal of a closed pension fund, which is yet to be regulated by law, and the related issues that speak of premiums in the event of a worker leaving the public administration. In the national party, we estimate that this is too important a matter to be accepted by this national assembly. That is why we will oppose the law in the SNS proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you. Dr Miha Brejc has the floor for the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Social-democratic parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is a legislative body and must act as such, and in particular it must respect the laws it adopts. In this case, our legislative and legal service has made very serious formal reservations and said that, in fact, what the Ministry of the Interior is doing and, of course, the government, when it comes to the law on the system of salaries in public administration, cannot be tolerated. In short, she warned that, for formal reasons, it was not possible to amend Article 52 as planned by the government. What pains me most of all is not that the government does things like that all the time. The law on police was also amended or amended by the Ministry, although some articles on the decision of the Constitutional Court were retained, so they could not be kept at all, but in spite of that. It's moving on. But what surprises a person is the logic of the work of this committee, which in its report - the Committee on Internal Policy - on the other hand writes. As regards the legislative and legal services' comments, however, they further considered that it had overlooked in its opinion the proposaler's important idea that amendments to the harmonisation of the starting point of wages for the first tariff class could only be made on the basis of an annex to the collective agreement and not of any other act. Of course, the legislative and legal service did not overlook anything because it clearly and decisively wrote it down. There's another problem. The problem is that when the ruling coalition corresponds to the opinion of the legislative and legal service, this opinion is then referred to. But when it doesn't suit her, she behaves differently. What if we need a piece of legislation in this House? I don't think we need it at all if that's how it's done. For me, their arguments are considered, reasoned and taken into account, even when I do not like them. But you do what you feel. And of course, it is normal that the system cannot work, but among other things, if the college places this law on the agenda as a matter of urgency, because it is thus a threatened state. Yes, but what's at risk with this emergency procedure? An urgent procedure for this article to be amended? This is a mockery of our rules of procedure and everything we've done here. So, the rules we've set ourselves, we don't respect ourselves. This is far, far from a developed democratic society and a legal culture. There's nothing else I can say. You should never have come to this congregation in the first place. And it's obvious that one of them is already waiting for the sushi bill or whatever it's called, in short, one complicated law. And that's how we're going to do it again, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it. Just like this law. In July 2001, if I recall correctly, we accepted it, we found that this marriage was bad, the serious criticisms were, they are still falling, and before we use it, we are already changing it. It's a clear signal that things weren't premeditated at the time and that they weren't. For formal reasons, I do not think we can support this law, because this will open up room for further errors in procedures, not to say illegal conduct. So we understand that we need to negotiate with the unions, we understand that one of the formulas to solve the problem of wages or inflation, some other money in some other form, we understand all this, but please put it into forms that are normal for democratic institutions. Not that you are forcing us to actually vote on things that are in a formal legal sense wrong, wrong, illegal, and then we should vote on them. For these reasons, we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. My colleague Ptrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and his colleague Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! For political interests, legitimate but political ones can still use very large words in this law. I would like to say that we understand the United List of Social Democrats to this law, which is much simpler than anyone else, I would say, the pompous words used here. What's this all about? The unions and the government have adopted a collective agreement to regulate the payment of salaries for this year and for the start of the next year in terms of inflation. In the Public Sector Wages Act, trade unions and governments have also agreed that this collective agreement is in force. And without doubt, this has been recorded in the transitional provisions of the law. The government has taken the initiative to change part of this collective agreement or way of harmonising wages. The unions have agreed to the start of the deal. There's no deal yet. At the same time, they said that a change to the transitional provisions of the law was possible only if the agreement really came. And that's all the content of this law. The proposal is, therefore, that if an agreement is reached between the unions and the government, by amending the law, we will allow the amended agreement to be in force this year. There's not a deal yet. However, we are today at the last July meeting, coordination should follow with August 1st and should then be paid in early August. If we do not give this option today, then this option would not be formal, even if the government and the unions reached an agreement. Let me put it this way. Surely, given the mass of wages, this has its meaning for the budget, it certainly can also have its meaning for the inflation movement indirectly, and it certainly has its meaning for the movement of the mass of wages which has the basis for the payment of pensions, but, in my opinion, far from in this way, as has been the case here. Why not? Because pensions are paid in accordance with the law and will be paid by law irrespective of whether and how much more or less will be paid to the pension fund by this law. It's never happened before, because of any deficit, and I'm not defending the deficit, but because of the possible deficit in the pension register, it hasn't been said, we're suspending the pension law and we're not paying pensions, it's just not true. To say this, ladies and gentlemen, I would say it is a little too harsh and this is considered an argument for non-admission of the law, too. So whether the law will have any effect at all is a matter of agreement between unions and the government. As regards the formulations themselves, and on the Committee on Justice and Internal Policy, we considered the comments of our service only as comments on the formulations, not on the content. We have also said that if it is found that a better formulation is needed and found that we are ready to accept it, at the same time we have said that it is agreed between the unions and that we do not want to change it so that it would not eventually have a consequence that we are also changing the objective of the agreement. Since the purpose of this agreement was to change the annex to the collective agreement only if, or collective agreement, only if such an annex was accepted, that does not mean that our service had warned that it would not otherwise be possible to change things if it were such an agreement. I therefore propose that we support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Mr Lavrinc will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and this will be the last presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! First, I would like to read what the second paragraph of Article 52 says. Actually, I feel like we don't know what we're talking about. This is the Public Sector Wages Scheme Act, paragraph 52, second paragraph, which reads: "Until the application of this Act, public servants and officials shall be paid in accordance with the rules and collective agreements in force pending the entry into force of this Act." And we added a third paragraph to this, which says, "No matter the second paragraph's provision..." and so on and so forth, they have already presented the content to you today. So, I'm talking about public sector wages, we're not talking about real sector wages. However, public sector wages are always discussed because they have some macroeconomic effects. And this was also the goal of the government to achieve, with such a proposal, when we gave the legal opportunity to further negotiate between unions and between the government and employers, an annex which, of course, would have been established in Slovenia or provided conditions for wage harmonisation to be achieved in the coming years, as we have written down in the law. Indeed, it must be said that in the law we have written down that by 2008 the wage ratio, which is now high, will be reduced to 1:8. So, so, I'm going to say, I'm surprised by the behavior of union leaders, the leadership, I'm talking about union leadership, this negotiation. I'll tell you what. It's all in numbers. If someone has up to 277,000 net wages, they'll be on the same or better, that means they have 485,000 gross. Tell me how many of these people are in public administration. Those with higher income would, of course, lose something in this proposal. That's the first one. That is why I will say that if most of the workers in the public sector, and I hope to say so, there is something in this area that they would gain if they were informed of the real data I am confident they would push on their leadership, which in some sense are conducting these negotiations irrationally. And I'm afraid that what happened in Germany could happen when the unions IG METALA [[?]] try to achieve too much and achieve exactly the opposite. And I'll tell you something else. 140,000 insured people are not coughing for any of these private companies. Therefore, the question is immediately raised as to whether lobbying may not be possible. Listen to why I'm saying this. Because it is generally known that the government has a law on supplementary pension insurance prepared, which, therefore, in such a case, of course, if this agreement is reached, will create a better fund, more fairer and even cheaper, more efficient to say so. That is why we believe that the negotiations have not yet gone to a dead end, that there is still time for harmonisation and also for things to go as well as for us, if I say so, Members, to show how to do these things. So I will remind you, for example, that those who are hand-wrapping, for example, will earn less in such a case, why don't you then scream when, for example, in 1993, we reduced our salaries by 20% at the Kviaza Decision, by an additional 20% that same year, which means, together by 40%, our salaries were lower and, of course, the income of the medical cash register, pension bills and so on. And from 1.6.1993 forward to today again 20%, for all the years. I wouldn't want to play with numbers, so we saved the country money, because it's actually a small amount, but it's some kind of demonstration effect. So our Group will, for reasons that give negotiators the opportunity, support this law, because it can bring at least two useful things, and this is macroeconomic effects and additional pension insurance for those who need it most, and these are people who have less wages than I told you, out of 277,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Comrade Lavrinz. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're going to move on to the law. I do not have a notice from the government or from the competent service that the law would be inconsistent or the text of the law, so we will go straight to the decision-making process. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please, Comrade Barovich, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened very carefully to my colleague Max Lavrintz, and in many ways I absolutely agree with him. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that it will be clear. Given that, for us, the proposal is untransparent, opaque, unclear, so the Slovenian National Party will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I will explain why we will vote against this in the Group. I don't argue with the predecessors, but if two positive things are for what kind of thing, how negative is it? It's more negative. Gross wages will not rise and be misled by these and those who believe that they will earn more if they have low wages through compulsory voluntary pension insurance. And I ask you, what is their pension base going to be, is this going to be the equivalent of a loss based on that? If you are aware of whether you listened yesterday, what it means to be always negative for the last three years, that the insurance period for the calculation of the pension base increases each year to reach 18 years. What does this mean, not for the current generation of pensioners, but also, because coordination after, if gross wages don't rise, net wages don't rise and they're not just pensioners with their pensions, they're all unemployed, they're all those who are tied to wage movements. Colleagues and colleagues, if you don't care, not just for 140,000 and 500,000 pensioners, but for all those unemployed and others, then vote as someone recommends. I pour you pure wine, you go into these two articles, and I guarantee you that the constitutional conflict will be triggered if it is so accepted and we will be blamed by all those who accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u135	I ask that you do not qualify in your explanations for the conduct of other parliamentary groups or colleagues. The explanation of vote is not intended for controversy. Comrade Lavrinz, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this article, because I have in mind the following: So those who have gross wages of 100,000, we will say, in this way, if there is harmonisation, we would get 2,300 per calculation, after the second 2,400. However, if we accept the option, that is nothing more than the possibility of an annex being made for this year alone, not for regressions, for years to come and so on, but only until the annex for this year, for example, it will receive 6,000 investments for late years. Pensions aren't big. Ask the pensioners. Of course, I don't care if there's one little thing missing in the pension register, after all, we have a capital company that actually services that account when needed. Who else wins? We get to, I'll tell those who earn gross 300,000, maybe they're for one little thing worse. But tell me, how many are there in this public administration? So, of course, that's the first. Secondly, it's about macroeconomic effects. It's just that I just can't believe that these private pension companies aren't lobbies back here. Because this is where they get 140,000 potential candidates. That is why, of course, I am sure that the government's path to this is correct, even in those negotiations there. Of course, I just hope and pray to God that this deal will come to pass. But we will not do anything else with the adoption of this law today, and I reiterate this by giving the legal opportunity for the partners to talk. But how will they talk or arrange to do so is the matter of that conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u137	The National Assembly will move on to a decision. May I have your attention in the hall? Order! We're voting on the law. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a decision! We're voting on the law. 55 in attendance, 39 in and 14 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the law has been adopted and this item is thus concluded on the agenda. We're at 23. Agenda items - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. This proposal is also tabled under urgent procedure and this proposal has also been tabled by the Government. The Minister of State, Dr. Gaber, would like to give a further explanation. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u138	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! In front of us, the law that we are trying to build on in the field of education and education is the right way to build on the solutions arising from the Labour Relations Act. We need these solutions for the normal functioning of the school system and for solving specific issues in this system. The government is proposing this with the desire that the law be adopted, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u139	Would you like a word, chairman of the committee, colleague Mogo? Please. You have the floor to present the position of the competent working body, the Committee on Culture and Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u140	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The procedure was necessary, so we took the amendments to the committee, which were tabled by Member Jože Kavtičnik to Articles 1, 4, 9 and 10. I'll give you a brief summary. Article 1 regulated old practice again, namely that an employee has the right to appeal to a public kindergarten or school in cases where, in accordance with the law governing working relations, a worker may request judicial protection before a competent court. Which means that the new Labour Relations Act, which has amended this law, has made it possible to appeal immediately to the court, but the members of the committee are on the basis of an explanation that, specifically at the request of the trade unions, this procedure is not as normal as it is now, that people are accustomed to keep the practice that has been good and meaningful, which reduces costs in this country, makes the situation of employees less difficult and at the same time preserves the fundamental logic of the processes. It's that these processes run like they do now. That's why we accepted this amendment. The union also said that direct referral to the court would reduce the safety of employees, particularly given the duration of the proceedings in the courts. And he also warned about the costs arising from the appeal in the courts. Two opposed it, Mr. France Tsukati and Villa Trophynik. The first said that the very idea of resolving this issue was not controversial and acceptable, but if we want to cut the labour law so drastically, we should resolve this issue in the labour law itself. However, colleague Vila Trofenik therefore objected to the fact that if we wanted to establish such a special status of workers in public education institutions, we should then establish such a system in all public institutions in the public sector. Article 2 spoke of, pardon, and the following article was Article 4, referring to contracts and contracts of work. There were different opinions here. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that a school or kindergarten may conclude a contract of work to carry out educational and educational activities under the conditions laid down by this law and the law governing bond relations. However, it is not entirely clear what these conditions are laid down by the Law on Organisations and Financing of Education and Education. The applicant simply said that the contract of employment was an undertaking contract. It will be subject to all the rules of the Bond Relations Act. It is not linked to the Labour Relations Act and to the rights arising from working relations. The worker will thus have a fully civil-law relationship with the school, or kindergarten, in order not to leave out educational conditions, the conclusion of these conditions is also linked to the conditions laid down in the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. At the same time, he drew particular attention to those provisions of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education that enable individuals to function. The Labour Relations Act excludes them in a way that no longer provides for employment contracts. If we strictly insist on the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, the whole spectrum of these individuals who are willing to participate in a school to a lesser extent, or the implementation of that part of the programme, where knowledge was essential for school and for teaching, would be lost because it would not be possible to conclude contracts for such work. Therefore, the members of the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 4. He added further to the discussion Article 9 governing the conclusion of the employment contract. In particular, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that this Article 118 should be cleared of a number of ambiguities or even contradictions. For example, the principal has no discretion as to whether he will hire someone who is a surplus at another school and immediately imposes this obligation on him in the following sentence. The bill's proposal said that, with regard to the resolution of redundant workers, we have a relatively good system to monitor the movement of the share of employment of certain staff and labour burdens and the need for workers. Otherwise, the applicants agreed that the whole text of the review was trying to find a better solution, which is probably ahead of you on the bench, in the form of an amendment. Article 10 spoke of the possibility of reducing the weekly learning obligation, but not more than 3 hours. Representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service have warned us that Article 10 gives us the opportunity to reduce the weekly learning obligation by 3 hours. In certain cases, this would mean a weekly learning obligation of over 19 hours. Such a proposed solution would also suggest a study from the point of view of the Labour Relations Act, where full working hours are defined - must not exceed 36 hours. We have therefore found on the Committee that the learning obligation and working time are not too disproportionate and we have therefore supported this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u141	Good. We will now hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Brenčič has already said that he is refusing to present the views of the SLS Group. Mr Čeligoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group, followed by colleague Ana Marija Tisovic. First, Comrade Cheligoy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u142	Your Honor! In the DeSUS Group, we seriously discussed the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The law is in a state of emergency, which also shows that there is a need for immediate action. [[?]] making decisions because the new school year is at the door. The area of primary education is undergoing a specific transformation, both through the final phase of the introduction of a nine-year-old, resulting in interventions to the scope and content of the educational work of kindergartens and primary schools. Unfortunately, this also reduces the number of children dramatically, reducing the employment obligation of employees, which also creates new, disruptive working conditions. Staff changes, employment in other jobs, the integration of kindergarten teachers into primary school, contract work, business termination procedures when dealing with work surplus problems, all these solutions affecting the legal and social security of the individual must be regulated legally. We hope that the proposed law will make this possible. In this context, the proposed law protects workers who, due to a reduced level of pedagogical work, are threatened with losing their job, the law gives them priority over other job applicants for whom they have professional qualifications. We believe that the proposed law is also well regulated by traineeships, mentoring, professional examinations and the transition of professional titles. The proposed law has been dealt with by the Home Committee in a responsible manner and has been improved by some amendments. In the DeSUS Group, we support the bill and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you. A colleague of Anna Maria Tisovic. You have the floor to present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group and behind you, colleague Barovic. First, my colleague Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u144	Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! 1.1.2003 The Labour Relations Act has been enacted. This, however, has new starting points in terms of working relations. It is therefore also necessary to amend and supplement the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The proposal regulates the work area of the staff, which is specific in relation to other professions. Education and education are specific in terms of employment and employment relationships mainly due to the variable needs for the number of teachers employed, the subject and the year in question. This depends on enrolled children and changing school curricula. Thus, teachers may have a full employment obligation for one school year and are no longer employed in the other. This would mean, under the new law, that a new contract should be offered with reduced working time. On the other hand, it may be lacking for certain professional subjects of qualified teachers who, under current legislation, could not be employed. The proposals and additions to this law would ensure the smooth implementation of education and education. Although the Labour Relations Act no longer knows the labour contract, if the implementation of education and education were to be disrupted, a contract of work under the bond code could be concluded. Of course, there is a limit to a maximum of 8 hours per week and 10 months per year. It is also possible to reduce the learning obligation, but for a maximum of three hours per week. The Labour Relations Act is intended to harmonise the section on termination of the employment relationship for urgent operational reasons. The Labour Relations Act is very strict and non-lifelike in certain provisions. Specific relations should therefore be resolved in sectoral laws. Such corrections will certainly have to take place in some other areas. We are also reminded of this by the legislative and legal service. The Labour Relations Act should be reviewed and corrected where shortcomings arise. The New Slovenia Group agrees with the innovation in this novel that the Minister publishes public school vacancies in a joint publication. We are convinced that this should be an obligation, not that it can be done. The provision in this part is too loose for the New Slovenia Group. The transparency of the needs for staff would certainly be better in this joint publication. We also believe that the government could send this novelty to the National Assembly earlier, but not so late that we have to deal with this at the last meeting of the National Assembly before the new school year. This means that schools will have to adapt very quickly to the new law, since they certainly knew about the new labour law at the Ministry of Education earlier and could have found these solutions a little earlier. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that this novelty is necessary in order to avoid complications in the organisation of the work of education and education, so we will not oppose this new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u145	Mr Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's delegation, followed by his colleague Tanko. First, my friend Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished co-workers of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we are aware of the problems and needs for additional education and education arrangements, which will ensure the smooth implementation of the educational programme. However, according to the Slovenian National Party, this novelty is incomplete. This was also pointed out by the legislative and legal service. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that the area of education and education is specific, both in terms of the number of professional workers and the implementation of prescribed programmes which depend on the number of children. We therefore support the approximation of the possibility of redistribution of professional staff and the implementation of the necessary educational programmes in the Slovenian National Party. However, we do not agree with the derogation from the Labour Relations Act on the settlement of complaints. Not because we would not trust the proposed solutions, but because certain features exist in other non-economic areas, which, of course, can lead to changes and uncertainties in different sectoral legislation. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is necessary to adopt the law, although we estimate that the government has not done its work properly again and by force is regulating areas where there is still a legal void. For this reason, we will still support the law with all that is said in the Slovenian National Party in the light of our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. My colleague Tanko will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by her colleague Potrata. And first, my friend Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. In the parliamentary group, we understand the problems of the proposalr, and we also agree that the situation in the field of education and education needs to be regulated. However, there seems to be a controversial way to deal with this. First of all, the disputed procedure envisaged is an urgent procedure, and I do not think that this urgent procedure of this amendment of the law applies under the rules of procedure, and all those who have proposed it have somehow bypassed it. I think it would make a lot more sense by the short notice. The second thing that makes this seem controversial to us is that somehow it is correcting already a roof law on working relationships. Although some specificities and solutions have already been incorporated into this Labour Relations Act to address key school issues. It is necessary to say that the reform of the school system has been taking place for several years and since 1.9., this September this year, a nine-year-old project, which is a key cause of these problems in the face of poor demographic movements. It seems strange to us that the government is now, at the end of the project, addressing some of the basic problems related to working and working time, because all of these things have been predictable for many years. That is why I think it was possible to approach and resolve problems in a timely and systematic manner. This is how we are facing a proposal today that is trying to resolve some problems on a fast and far-reaching labour relationship law, and it is not acceptable for our Group of Members. The most problematic and controversial provision in this sectoral law is the new provision for the introduction of a labour contract. Article 4 of the Act states that a contract of work may be concluded up to a maximum of one third by this law of a specific weekly obligation and for a maximum of ten months in the school year. And past the roof law is trying to address the problem of the completion and specificity of the school learning process in some special, exclusive way. This could also be regulated in Article 146 of the Labour Relations Act, which regulates complementary work. We also find a controversial and non-systemic provision regarding the contract on the employment of a preschooler who has a working relationship in kindergarten, primary school, first-class education, education and education, extended stay and morning care. This provision does not specify the consent of the worker or the worker for that acquisition or for that human leasing. In this connection, therefore, the provision concerning the conclusion of a new employment contract is also questionable and non-systemic. Although the articles of the law have been corrected at the meeting of the home labour body, we believe that these corrections are merely cosmetic, as in most cases very serious concerns of the legislative and legal service have not been taken into account, so we cannot support the law. There is a legitimate fear that the adoption of this amendment will also begin to address employment issues in other professional areas beyond the umbrella of the law with the pretext that they are specific to a particular profession. This also points to our current practice when we fully evaluate system laws by adopting sectoral laws and thus apply the practice of mutually inconsistent laws. We therefore appeal once again to the government that proposes most of these laws so that the drafts and amendments of the laws are made more prudently and more prudently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. Colleague Majda Potrata will present you can come to the speaker stage. [[...]] We are trying to introduce a uniform practice in order to see what the views of the groups are and what individual Members and Members of Parliament are. Please, colleague of Potrat, follow you, colleague of grandkids.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with colleagues! Allow me to speak about the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, as seen by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. The drafter referred to the objectives of the proposed amendments and additions in the accompanying text and directed them into three main groups: to harmonise the regulation of labour relations in the law on financing and the organisation of education and education with the legislation which entered into force on 1 this year, to regulate the employment of workers in order to ensure that work in educational institutions is carried out smoothly and to ensure the supervision of the employment of professional workers. Therefore, the fundamental changes and additions relate in particular to the provisions on the employment contract, the protection of the rights of workers in the labour relationship and judicial protection, the changes in traineeship and the professional examination involved, and the management of the human resources issues that are particularly acute in the field of education and education due to the fact that there are a number of human resources fluctuations. The United List of Social Democrats has not only once stressed the importance of education and education if it considers the development potential of Slovenia from a central point of view, that is knowledge. We have therefore thought even more about the proposed amendments when we have read the comments of the legislative and legal service, which has mainly drawn attention to the fact that the sectoral legislation solves certain things from the system law on working relations in a specific way, thereby introducing or implementing the permissible exceptions provided for by the labour law, but the question is whether the exceptions are in fact, or whether the specifics of this area are so large that such an exception is justified. It was mainly a matter of comments on how regulated the area of contract conclusion is, since the legal and legislative service considered that specific solutions in Article 146 of the Labour Relations Act were admissible and that in this context also mentioned the area of education and education as an area where the provision on so-called complementary work could be applied, but it would be precisely because of this possibility that it would suggest that the need for this specificity should be reconsidered, including a specific law, to introduce the sectoral law. Finally, we decided this provision together with another concern expressed by the legislative and legal service concerning the special institute of the second-degree appeal body, saying that the worker in the protection of his rights could still be directed at the school's council, in addition to what is statutoryly provided that he could address it directly to the court, so together with this exception we decided to support the above-mentioned, because after further explanations by the union's representative and after providing the union representative that the solutions are in line with the union's representatives who want to maintain the current level of regulation of rights from working conditions and also the regulation of judicial protection, we supported the proposed amendments, and we will also support the amendments submitted to the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much, colleague of yours. My colleague Grandchild, may I ask you, too? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u152	Dear President, with your permission, because I'm going to be very brief, I would just like to get out of this town. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we do have a number of questions concerning the reduction of time limits, if this will increase the quality of the performance of the professional examinations, but we feel and agree that the employees in education and education are such a category of employees and that the nature of the work is that they need additional employment opportunities and we agree here, of course, that they do not suffer from an educational programme and that this employment is allowed for a certain period of time. Maybe the marriage itself has some questions, but the amendments we have on the table are being resolved and we will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u153	Good. Thank you very much. My friend Kavtičnik, please. You will present the position of the Club of Parliament of Liberal Democracy and then we will go to a decision. Please, please. I'm asking my colleagues and a colleague from the offices and from the lobby to come to the hall because we're going to make a decision. Please, Comrade Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Ministry, respectable council! We live in a world of constant change. How changes will affect our lives depends on us. The laws that we are considering in the National Assembly are important for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And that is why laws must follow the needs of life. The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is governed by fundamental organisational, status and financial issues, from pre-school education to adult education. At the time of its entry into force, in March 1996, the law was amended and supplemented by July 2001, November 2002 and March 2003 due to the needs of practice and the need to comply with the newly adopted laws. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of the education and education ahead of us will be supported in the House of Members of Liberal Democracy. The bill before us, in particular coordinating the provisions on working relations with the new labour law, regulates their employment, so that the new school year ensures smooth implementation of activities and supervision of the employment of professional workers in schools. It also provides for the protection of the rights of workers from working and judicial protection, as well as for traineeships. In adopting the new Labour Relations Act, we have already pointed out the specificity of education and education employment, in particular in the article on complementary work. The specificity of this profession also shows that, due to the different number of children enrolled in the school year, their need for them is staggering, the need for staff. The law offers a solution that highlights the contractual nature of the working relationship. The Act on Working Relations in Article 2 allows for a specific law to provide otherwise for the regulation of the working relationship. Such a different arrangement for education and education, which means a necessity for smooth work, makes it possible for the law to organise and finance education and education. Together with the coalition members, we have tabled two amendments to the amended bill. Both are editorial in nature and follow the legislative and legal opinion even more closely. The amendment to Article 4 thus complements the original text with a provision which provides that a worker entering into a contract of work must have an appropriate level of professional education. However, the amendment to Article 118 provides more precisely that the principal of the school or kindergarten is the one who offers the worker a new employment contract when he becomes an over-worker, while in the other school or kindergarten he is the person who offers the worker a job. That is why Members of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy will support the above-mentioned law and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u155	Okay, this concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We have before us all a review of the amendments tabled, which was given to the bench on the 15th of this month. We have the amendments to Articles 4 and 9. We can move on to debate and decision-making on the amendments. Four parliamentary clubs or groups have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Anybody want a word? Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a point here. I have also listened carefully to fellow Members who spoke on behalf of the groups of Members, but it is clear that some basic concepts of labour law are not separated, namely, what is the working relationship and what is left, which can then be regulated in a different way, even through a contract of work under the law on bond relations. For at the time of the adoption of the Labour Relations Act, it was clear that we had regulated working relations with this law and that all other forms of formal definition of such and other parts had been left to another treaty. Here we are now going to this border area where we are saying that, if it is not possible to enter into a working relationship, the contract of employment is for works which have the property of a working relationship. I think that this is a deviation from the objectives and also the purpose of the Labour Relations Act. That is said to be where we conclude a contract of work for workers who have the nature of their working relationship. This is not right, for it is allowed to conclude a contract of work if all the possibilities for concluding a employment contract have been used. In short, it was work that had the characteristics of a working relationship. The employment contract, which should be the only formal legal form of the definition of the labour relationship, is not concluded and we are going to the labour contract. This, I'm sorry, is not systemic and this is a big problem. I am obliged to warn against this, but I believe that it is practical and that the way out is in force, but if we are a state of law, we should not allow ourselves to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u157	Anyone else? Nobody. Then we'll move on to the decision. The four parliamentary groups have tabled an amendment to Article 4 and we will now decide on it. We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall? We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall! Amendment to Article 4. The amendment was accepted. 52 present, 42 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] The same four parliamentary groups also table amendments to Article 9. Anybody want a word? The National Assembly will decide on the amendment to Article 9. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the amendment to Article 9. 46 present. 39 for and no one against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] We're on the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, we adopted amendments to Articles 4 and 9. I ask qualified candidates or do they want to table amendments to these two articles? If we don't, we're going to move on to a full decision on the law. With regard to coherence, I do not see any objection in such a way that we can decide on a proposal for a law in its entirety. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting on the law. We're in the middle of a vote. 58 present. 47 for and no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. We're moving on to 24. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on additional concessions paid for by students on a temporary and temporary basis. This proposal, which has been tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure, is under urgent consideration. I suppose you'll have a brief explanation, Dr. Gaber, Minister. Please, you have the floor. Please, please, please, please, please, The Minister has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u158	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the second from the package of laws that are trying to contribute to ensuring the normal situation in Slovenia for an exceptionally increased number of students and students. This increased number, which we have been witnessing to for several years, has apparently also produced good final results. Let me remind you all that the number of people who have more than secondary education in Slovenia today has increased significantly in the last decade, from 135,000 to 215,000. All of this requires conditions and, of course, spatial conditions at first. After lengthy talks with the student organisation and universities in Slovenia, the government decided to propose to Parliament a set of laws, and this set of laws with the student organisation and universities has also been harmonised. In this particular case, we have agreed that, when we provide study conditions, i.e. spatial conditions at universities, we will also provide accommodation conditions in student homes and add equipment. To this end, the total amount of these funds will amount to around 35 billion tolls and 25 billion tolls will come from the budget, the remainder will be accrued from concession fees and we have already discussed the work of finance that is expected to come from the loan. This specific law on additional concession fee governs 2% of the additional concession fee, which is intended to help close the financial structure, which will definitely contribute significantly to the future of this country in the long term. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I propose that we adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u159	I now give the floor to the chairman of the committee, my colleague Mohet, to present the views of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This law has financial implications and has been dealt with by the Finance Committee, which sent us two conclusions prior to the meeting, prior to the hearing on our working body. The first said that the Committee was in favour of resolving the proposed problem by introducing an additional concession fee, as defined by the proposed text of the legislative proposal. The second was to clear up certain concepts. This was also indicated by the legislative and legal service in its opinion, and then on the basis of this on the Committee, because there was an urgent procedure, two amendments, one to Article 1, where we included students and students in addition to students, and the third to Article 3, where we adopted an opinion on the proposal of the student organisation, that these funds should be separately managed and fully allocated to the state budget to a specific budget item. Since we also introduced a controversial form in the text, including a student and a student and a student, we also had to correct the title because we included the works of the students and the students. However, the work of the working body has been completed and you have before you a law that has been supported in the working body by the majority of the votes, and I think that there will also be a national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u161	Mr Podobnik is not here to present the position of the SLS Group of Members. Mr Čeligoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group, followed by a colleague of mags. It's a trifle. First, Comrade Cheligoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the DeSUS Group, we support the draft law on additional concession fees paid for occasional and temporary work of students and students. It's two things the novels are talking about. Firstly, in order to extend concession obligations by 2%, which the contracting authority is supposed to separate from the works and this would also be its additional cost. Secondly, these funds are intended to be earmarked for a special account and are deliberately used to finance and build and rebuild the housing capacity of the studying generation and half for the technological equipment of universities in Slovenia. Since this simple intervention into the existing law, there are also logical issues and dilemmas. Let me list them: is it even acceptable for students and students to raise funds in their work for areas that should only be provided by the State. Is it right to add to the burden a resource that students use to support their financial options? The additional consideration was also focused on whether there would now be less work on the market due to more expensive services. Students and young people have already warned about this. There is also strong concern about the review of the funds raised, and even more so about the place where the funds will be collected and how the funds will be shared. We believe that these dilemmas too are being addressed well enough by the proposed law, with a special account in the budget line. In any case, it will be necessary to monitor and act immediately if it turns out that we have done badly to the students, to the students, to the student work and to the earnings. In this regard, the Group of Members will also support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you, Comrade Cheligo. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u164	Nicely greeted! It probably does not need to be stressed that we agree that both Slovenian universities, and perhaps the third, which is suggested, are the necessary technological improvements, good equipment to join a globalised society, and now that we are also involved in the European Community, where everything will be made available and, on the other hand, the necessary student capacity to stay. However, as the government has done, we are not in favour of this in the New Slovenia Group because, for the first time, we are trying to provide additional benefits at the expense of the student work so that they can finance this equipment and stay on their own. This reminds us little of previous systems of self-governance or self-governance of the interest communities in New Slovenia - to collect and decide for themselves. This is the responsibility of the State, which is why they have universities that have given them a certain authority and provided budgetary money. Should all these capacities be built only on the student’s shoulders or on the student’s work? This is a fundamental ethical question - yes, indeed, an ethical question is this. Or from an integrated budget where it is collected from all those on the principle of justice and legality - yes, that is. In particular, because we see that the integration of students into universities is increasing, and on the other hand, the success of students in college is questionable, perhaps because some are forced by social differences or because of social pressures to work, and now you are burdening them with this. Now what is more important from a systemic point of view, which we oppose. This will then mean investing in the university's equity portfolio by a student organisation. It will trigger ownership issues, and this has been pointed out by the legislative and legal service. Well, this is also not in line with the integrated budget. If you wanted to do this past the budget, so as not to know the income and expenditure of the budget, I probably also allow you to do so because of giving a different picture to the European Union. But then let these funds gather at the university -- why not at the university? Yeah, that's exactly why at a student organization, which is a civil organization. So, in the parliamentary group, we ask for an answer why not. What about the budget fund? If it is as it is now in the amendment - the budget fund does not have legal personality. And what about responsibility and signing? You're also saying that the budget fund is supposed to be signed by, I don't know, the chairman. The budget fund does not have a real chairman, it is a title, it is a budget item in essence and it is nothing special, except that payments can be delayed over a year slightly differently, it is in the Public Procurement Act. What's he gonna sign? In fact, we are already falling into the budget, in the integrated budget. And then what about the student organization? The student organisation invests in the student portfolio. That's the way it is, so these open questions. Finally, we will have to ask ourselves whose capacities are to finance the student organisation. The distribution of property - this issue will absolutely come to the fore. But we prepare ourselves for this, if this happens, to own the capacity of the university, then it is necessary to say in advance what kind of principles this will be shared when the student organisation invests in capacity. The next question, perhaps marginally, is the issue of liquid assets that the student organisation will have - the limitation of liquidity or investment. So these are the questions. If the matter were to take place as I said, even to this end, even these 2% concession fees would not be opposed if they were enforced in this way. Just one more question or message. It is already known that concession fees are not being paid and I am interested, I ask the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance: "When will this start and consistently claim that concession fees will be paid, not earmarked for other purposes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you. Slovenian National Party, colleague Bodgdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fact that for the growing number of students, which is still behind the average in the European Union, there is not enough room for this growing number. That's a fact. The fact is that it is the duty of the countries to make some arrangements for the construction of new homes or for the renovation of old ones. The fact is that these are lacking and that this moment of another way is not as proposed. These are the facts. Therefore, due to the facts given in the Slovenian National Party, we agree to increase concession fees by 2% and thus obtain adequate funds for a particular purpose, and not at the expense of the students and their work. This, however, in the Slovenian National Party, no matter how you explain this law to me, we are particularly warning and have also tabled an amendment for a better understanding, which, according to our assessment, clearly sets out from whom certain funds are being deducted and that this would remove the last concerns that students should pay an additional duty in any way they want to find as much as they want, from their earnings. In the Slovenian National Party, we expect the country to ensure that, I emphasise, the student work hourly item will not reduce that the student organisation of Slovenia will actually make provision for the purpose of collecting and disbursing funds to finance the construction and renovation of student housing facilities and co-financing the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment of universities. We are concerned because, like so many times before, there are no sanctions imposed on offenders who would either: or abuse the work of students - so that their hourly position would be reduced and the students, of course, I think along with - or that dedicated money would be channeled to other areas. The evidence of this is, of course, also a concern or warning of the legislative and legal branch of government, which is fully understandable, but it also legally warns that the proposed concession fee constitutes a compulsory duty, which under the Public Finances Act is the revenue of the budget. And that this is a questionable provision of the law, which would suggest that additional concessions are collected directly by the student organisation of Slovenia. This is, of course, absolutely clear and absolutely clear that the legislative branch of power has to draw attention to this. I would be happy to have a precise legislative explanation as to whether the proposal of the second amendment tabled by colleague Marko Diaca and the Young Slovenia Party is legally appropriate, definitive and legal. That is why I would very much like to know whether this is so, because my colleagues on this side doubt this, in a proposal so-called, I think the budget fund. But I'd like to know a purely legal basis. In short, the Slovenian National Party agrees with the way to obtain funds for the quickest possible construction of dormitories for students and students and the modernisation of universities, but once again we stress: in no way and in no way in any way harm to students and students. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Master Andrej Vizjak has the floor. He's quitting. Just Bevk, the United List has a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on additional concession fees paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students. In spring 2000, the government adopted the 4,000-bed project for students. By the end of the 1990s, it had become clear that a large increase in the number of studying populations was no longer followed by an appropriate student standard, particularly in the area of the provision of living facilities. The fact is that investments did not follow a threefold increase in the number of students between the beginning and the end of the 1990s. Although ambitions, both governments and student organisations, were much greater for the project to rebuild and build additional capacities of student homes and were also set up in time very optimistic, as it showed that the real financial prospects of the country must be taken into account. In the middle of last year, there was an agreement between the student organisation of Slovenia and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to increase the concession fees of services from 10 to 12% per passenger, with 2% going directly to the budget fund for the project. The proposal for a law on additional concession fee paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students will also be implemented in practice. This bill will be collected annually in the period up to 2008 for 1 billion and 100 million tolars, which means 2% of the statutory concession fee paid by employers to student services at the time of transmission of each student and student work. Half of the funds will be earmarked for the reconstruction of student capacities in the Republic of Slovenia and the other half for the improvement of spatial conditions and technological equipment of the three Slovenian universities. As it is said, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will break the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you, colleague Bevk. Marko Diaci, Party of Young Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u170	Dear Minister! Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! One of Slovenia's priorities, especially at the time of the European Union's approximation, should be to invest in knowledge, as the development of tertiary education is important for the development of Slovenia's cultural and national identity and ensures development and prosperity in the future. The creation of a society and conditions in which each individual will have the opportunity with his or her knowledge, work and experience to fully realize his or her potential is one of the first objectives of the Young Slovenia Party. Unfortunately in this area, despite a three-year so-called effort, students have not received a roof in the context of the implementation of the project on renovation and construction of student housing. In the Youth Party, every year before each adoption of the budget, we have warned the government about the lack of funds to build and rebuild student homes and have tabled amendments to increase them. The lack of acceptance of these has shown the seriousness of the intention to solve this most pressing student problem. Let me once again draw attention to the 74th page amendment that we tabled in the budget in 2000 and was not adopted. The fact is that the scope of student accommodation in the Republic of Slovenia is lagging behind the development of higher education and higher education. The number of beds in student homes is not sufficient and therefore a large part of the student population is forced to stay in inappropriate and modern study of inappropriate accommodations each year. The number of students has more than doubled over the last 10 years and the number of student beds in the context of student homes has not changed significantly. In order to address this problem by Decision No 363 in 2000, 20.4. more specifically, the Government supported the strategy for the extension and renovation of student housing facilities in the Republic of Slovenia and entrusted the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs with the task of initiating the project within their competences. The government then needed more than a year to set up a special project council for the implementation, management and coordination of the project on the basis of the project adopted by decision 14.6.2001. The following year, however, she was able to develop a more detailed definition of the project of redesigning student capacities, as it also defined the financial scope needed to be realised. This is how the proposals for the law were drawn up this year. The timely inadequacy of this area clearly shows the government's commitment to this priority. As I have already mentioned, we are looking at the Youth Party to adopt both draft laws positively as a concrete step, while at the same time with great scepticism, as their implementation is under question in view of their activities in this area so far. Although this seems to us to be a solution to the problem of professional uniforms, the bill saves the construction of new student homes on the basis of higher taxation of student work, which indirectly means that students will build their own homes. This is comparatively the same as an additional percentage of pensioners' pensions by the State to build a home for the elderly, whether or not they will ever need accommodation in them. It is also totally a laughing matter for all students that half of the amount raised by this additional concession fee will also be intended to co-finance the premises, equip the faculty and so on. We are aware of the unenviable financial situation, as far as equipment is concerned, of our colleges. These occur daily with the issue of equipment depreciation, which also directly reflects the quality and length of the study. Individual colleges help each other in different ways; with a compulsory allowance for study equipment, such as in medical school, by increasing the number of outstanding students who are willing to pay for the study. Thus, free education is increasingly sedated in the constitution, and we believe that it is only a matter of time before the government comes with a proposal for the introduction of tuition. Is this proposal for a law that we have before us just an introduction? Thus, a new dedicated item will now be opened in the budget to which the funds will be raised through an additional concession fee. This is intended exclusively to build and rebuild student homes and invest in college equipment. However, we must say that we do not trust the government here. There is a legitimate fear that both resources will be lost both from the additional concession fee and credit in the integrated budget if they are not currently used. So far, we have seen that funds that have not been deliberately spent in the current year have then been used for other purposes. There is a strong possibility that these funds will also be redeployed for other purposes, not only for those for whom they have been raised, but also for other items. Therefore, the earmarked budget item is not in itself a guarantee that the reallocation of these funds will not take place. That's why I've tabled an amendment to try to solve what I can. This is the formation of the budget fund, which allows us Article 56 of the Public Finance Act. Consequently, there is no possibility of reallocation and no use of funds. With this, there are no obstacles to the construction and renovation of student housing capacity, at least not financially, despite the bitter taste. However, as I have already mentioned, the Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support this proposal of the law if our amendment is, of course, adopted, because we believe that it is better to adopt the law and get new student beds than to continue fighting with the mills on the wind for budget money.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you. In addition to the position of the LDS Club, which will be presented by Jožef Kavtičnik, we are going to the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, representative of the Ministry, respectable council. Investments in education and science enable as much population as possible to enter the desired programme. Spatial capacity is increasing, education is gradually being phased out to a different level and spatial standards are improving. In short, slowly but systematically improving the conditions for education work for children, youth and adults, thus providing conditions for better education and studies. For the progress of education, it was particularly important to adopt the so-called School Tolar Act in 1994, which, in 1996-2002, together with the Law on the Rental of Loans under the Council of Europe for Social Development and the Implementation of the Investment Project in School Area and Equipment in the Republic of Slovenia, provided additional funds for the development of programmes in the area of the construction and renewal of kindergarten and school buildings, computerisation, the provision of textbooks and snacks and the teaching of foreign languages. Acquisition of additional resources has also enabled the Basic Developments of Education and Science Programmes Act 2003-2008, adopted in October 2002. It is up to us to focus even more on improving the conditions for study and housing capacity and thus allow young people who want to be educated to the best possible conditions for education. We are all aware of the problems of inadequate student accommodation, the solution is certainly more, the government has come up with a proposal that has been aligned with student organisations. This is what we welcome to the Liberal Democracy Club. The purpose of the law under consideration is to promote the housing and spatial capacity of higher education. By increasing the concession fee from the benefits paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students, additional funds of a strictly dedicated nature would be collected more quickly and to a greater extent. In addition to the systemic resources we provide in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, these funds will help to provide students with housing capacities more and more quickly. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we strongly reject the suggestion that these funds will be collected at the expense of students and students who perform occasional work. It should be made clear that the contribution from the increase in the concession fee is made exclusively at the expense of the users of the services and not at the expense of students and students. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support the resolution of the problem, both in the law on additional concession fees paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students, so we also supported the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the student organisation of Slovenia on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment, and the construction and renovation of student accommodation. We will also support both amendments to the 3rd Article of the Group of the Party of Youth and Members of the Coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u173	We are moving on to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended law. You have two examinations, both of them on the 15th of this month. One is the review of the amendments tabled to Articles 1 and 3 and the other amendment to the amendment of the four groups of Members. We'll go to Article 1 first. Here the Slovenian National Party's Group proposes an amendment. Can we make a decision? We decide on the amendment to Article 1 tabled by the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 9 in and 39 in. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We will now decide on the amendment to Article 3, tabled by the four groups of Members. We're voting. Excuse me? Excuse me! You've raised your hand early enough just to see what it's all about. What's this all about? [[The ad from the bench.]] I've been waiting for someone to take the floor. Excuse me? Look, you've raised your hand early enough to understand the objection. I waited, maybe I wasn't clear enough and said out loud that it was a debate. I give you my word because you raised your hand in the middle of the vote; if you did it after the results were known, I would not give you my word. You have the floor to the amendment to Article 3 and Article 3. However, please be careful that when I look through Parliament, if anyone else wants a word, you raise your hand early enough. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to ask representatives of the State [[...]] [[Intermediation from the bench.]] No, it's still a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u175	Ah, the debate! It's a debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u176	With regard to the budget fund. So the student organisation runs the budget fund, they're separated by the budget fund. So who is the custodian of this budget fund? That's the first one. Why is the student organization a signatory? I'm asking from this condition or the question of legality. I think the matter should be quite clear that the concession fee is being allocated to the budget fund in accordance with the Public Finance Act. We know who is the custodian of the budget fund, what its obligations are - who cares. However, it is clear that the budget fund is a suitable form for dedicated funding. Of course, I smile a little bit if the Ministry of Finance and this government really wanted to provide resources in a transparent and clear way for the development of the university, for new technology, for student homes, from budgetary resources. However, since this is not what the ministers themselves believe that they can provide from the budget in accordance with the plans, it is, of course, necessary to establish a budget fund. And given that they do not believe themselves and I also have strong faith, I therefore support this that the funds are being raised in the budget fund. But before that, I'd like to ask for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u177	Anyone else? A fellow Diaca, then a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Well, if we're talking about this amendment to the amendment, I personally estimate that it's not necessary. However, as regards the amendment tabled by the Youth Slovenia Party, which discusses the budget fund, I would like to say the following. The Public Finance Act, in Article 56, provides for this possibility by introducing a budget fund into the budgetary financing system which allows for the provision of assigned revenue and expenditure on the budget in a specific budget account for the achievement of a certain purpose, which is of a temporary nature. The assigned revenue may only be used to finance certain expenditure defined by this law, as such resources cannot be used to finance other expenditure of the budget. And that is the logic of this proposal for this budget fund. Because if this actually went into an integral budget to a specific item, it would - I don't say that it would be, but there could be a possibility that it would actually be redistributed then and there would be nothing altogether. I therefore propose the introduction of this budget fund, which is a budget account and, of course, is managed by a competent ministry under the Public Finance Act; in this case, by the Ministry of Education and Sport. This solution was created on the basis of a debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as comments on the original proposal were made by the government, which I think was perhaps the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u179	Minister, please. Do any other Members want before that? Please, buddy Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u180	Look, President, as far as this budget fund is concerned, we're not looking for hot water. The budget fund is established in the case of a special fund for the construction of a paediatric clinic. And in fact, what colleague Diaci said now is one of the guards, of course, when he speaks, of course, that he is strictly dedicated. In June, the main point of the budget fund is that the funds that go to this fund do not fall. This should be taken into account in essence, and therefore I fully agree to the establishment of a special fund where funds will be raised, both the construction of student homes and technological equipment at the level presented by the Minister. That is why I think it is absolutely without a connection to lose words because we have already set up such a fund, and we know exactly what such a fund under Article 56, which Mr Diaca has been talking about, is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u181	Anyone else in front of the minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u182	Another question about -- thank you so much for saying that. Who will hire loans for construction and then what is the consequence - by investing these funds? Whose assets are these? Does this affect the property of a university that now owns 100 percent of that capacity?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u183	Good. Thank you. If that's all and no one else wants a word, I'd give the minister a word before making the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me say it again -- I know some people know this, but it's not bad if it sounds again. 33 billion and 600 million dollars is the sum of the money we're talking about. This needs to be added in line with the agreement with the student organisation of another billion and 600 million tolars for computer equipment. This is an investment that will go into the area of providing spatial and other conditions for study in Slovenia in three years. This will give us 6 billion and a good 500 million tolars, or about 18 percent. It will not be excessive to talk about how this is financed only and only and otherwise from the concession fee. It is true that this is a special arrangement - even a European comparable one. However, there is something else; it is true that you will not find in Europe a country where this tax would be collected in special student accounts. If we're talking about this, and if we're not trying to fool someone, then all this has to be said. This agreement shows the exceptional maturity of the student population in this country, the student organisations in this case, which decided together with the country, after careful consideration, not to invest all the funds only in student beds, but in the combined provision of study conditions. It would, of course, be easier, perhaps even more likeable, and for whom - even for our ministry - it would be easier if all funds were simply derived from the budget. Because we can't afford it, because we always have to count what we have and what we want to do, so we made a deal, and we've been negotiating a long time for a solution that's here. We also support a solution with the budget fund. It's acceptable to the government. The guardianship of the Fund is clear and evident by law. Mr Jakič specifically pointed out the essential element in this budget fund that stands and leads things forward financially, even through the financial year. As far as property is concerned, property is property in this case when it comes to university, but university property. So it's regulated by law, I think since 1999, in this country. And the university is a community of professors and students, and this is not a particularly big question in question. That is how I think we will know this question, or that they will know it within the university space. The most favourable loans will be sought together with the university, the most favourable credit arrangements, the state. And that's what I think the answers to are to your essential questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u185	The National Assembly will now proceed to Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u186	Mr. Minister, I asked you what will be the way these funds will be allocated by the student organisation - is this a donation or is this something else? Does this have consequences on the property of the university?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u187	You want to answer the Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u188	Yeah, what I can tell you right now, I've already told you. The university community is in this state community of students and professors, so it is defined. And it is not questionable to invest student funds in the university.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u189	Can I close the debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for those answers that aren't answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u191	I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. At the vote, I am proposing an amendment to Article 3. It was tabled by four groups of Members. We're voting! I ask for peace in the hall, we are in the middle of a vote. 65 present, 51 and 3 up. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We can now decide on Article 3 - I'm sorry, this Article 3 has been tabled. We are voting on the amendment to Article 3, tabled by the Youth Party's Group of Members. Can we make a decision? Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to decision-making. We're voting. 65 present, 62 for and 1 for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're in third reading. We have accepted the amendments to Article 1, and Article 3, I'm sorry, only in Article 3, qualified applicants do not want to table an amendment, so we are now going to decide on the law. I have no objection to consistency. We're voting on the law. My friend Jakich. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u192	Dear President, I will vote, of course, on the law, because Slovenia, and with it this authority, which has been repeatedly criticised and criticized, has always treated students as a good mother and not as a stepmother, as it wishes to be attributed to it. Of course, it was the government and for this country in fact education was the most important part of the work. It bothers me, and I also said this on the committee, on the working body, that of course we are trying to make a policy on this segment, so far we have not, and of course we have tried to ensure maximum conditions for this student and students and students. Nor are all those who say that when we enter the European Union, of course, we enter with a bad journey. On the contrary! Slovenia is one of the few countries which in fact gives up the work of the tax in favour of the students. There is no difference in Europe where someone would work for a higher tax under the contract or the employer would tax more than the employer in the Republic of Slovenia. The labour tax, as you know, or the labor contract, obliged the employer to set aside 6% for accident insurance and 25% for income. Employers have worked through student service so far allocated 10%, now it will be 12%. Because this 2% - the minister has already told us - are, in fact, in the Mavha that the state is devoting, in fact, only missing a billion six or ten billion, because 25 of the budget is already being budgeted. That is why, of course, I will be happy to support this law, not to the detriment of students and of course not to the detriment of employers, because they will still be interested in hiring students and students for work, but not of course in writing under the new contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u193	To explain their vote, they are now listed in order: colleague Sok, Diaca and Mag. It's a trifle. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In accordance with Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, the applicant, when introducing the law, should also provide three comparable systems of similar solutions in the Member States of the European Union. As you know, he didn't do it, but his mother's working body doesn't point out it's obviously an original and brilliant solution that we only know in Slovenia. So in addition to the gas tolar, the school tolar, we have now passed another student tolar - this is what this is all about. And this, of course, is no help in this direction, as my predecessor has presented here, but it is simply a 2% higher burden of the economy. Either this economy will now give 2% more or the student work will fall by 2%. So there's no other logic here. And with such brilliant ideas to take care of Slovenian students, of course, it is not difficult. So if the government works in this way, we will get a lot of these different tolars, which will be nothing more than an additional burden on the Slovenian economy and in a different way of obtaining certain funds. This is all the art of this proposal, so it's not some big move and some big imagination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u195	He's a friend of Diaci's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. I will support this bill for two, three reasons. The first reason is that there are really no more financial obstacles to the construction of the necessary student homes. The second reason is that I, too, am somewhat calm because this decision regarding the budget has been adopted for the reasons already mentioned. It is also important to say that I am also in favour of this law because, as the Minister has already said, there is some kind of solidarity or partnership between the student organisation of Slovenia and in this particular case the ministry. However, I would like to point out that, given the state of Slovenian public finances, this partnership will be necessary in another area. And another thing, through this concession fee, which Mr Minister was talking about, is this number: 6.5 billion plus 3 billion loans, which is 9.5 billion, from a project that weighs 33 billion, that's a little more than 55%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u197	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u198	By the way, we can mention that this law also does not comply with the business provisions concerning the consistent use of sex, as mentioned in the agricultural or drought law in our country. And that's another thing besides a comparison. But the explanation for the voice. Look, at a time when this coalition is three years old, the university funds for technological development have all decreased from 2 billion to 800 million. Yeah, that's right. You also have the opportunity to read it, Mr. Maramor wrote it or declared it. If you divide it into seven years, you actually get this amount that we're going to somehow cover right now. So the country or the ruling coalition first takes 7 billion, and then it gets them by putting pressure on the student work. I will vote in favour of this law so that there will be no further disaster as regards the equipment of schools and homes. Unfortunately, this will be at the expense of the work of students and the future credits that will have to be paid. This is, after all, also a slap to the government, that it did not produce the right solutions, systemically and legally indisputable, but it had to come through the left door, in this way. I said, I'm just going to vote for this law. But the law will bring some problems to the future that I have pointed out.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u199	Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. I'll support this law, too, probably like the vast majority here. But I would just like to mention that in all the other so-called tolars, of course, we do not have the consent we have here. Here the students, because the students have their representative representatives, these are the Community of Students of Slovenia and both organisations, agree and have reached a compromise here, together with the government, to find such a solution. We can say that this is not an imposed option if we look at it from this point of view, as we can say for some others, as a petrol tolar, where we do not have an impact on whether we will pay tolar more or less for some other infrastructure solutions. So I think a broader consensus has been reached here. From this point of view, of course, the law has its very good side, and I believe that such solutions can also be used elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u201	Anyone else want to explain their vote before the vote? If we don't, we'll go to the vote on the law. We're voting! We're in the middle of a vote on the law. 64 present, 61 for and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and this point has been completed. Now I'm going to have to ask your attention at 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY, because we have a lot of votes on the conclusions so that there will be no misunderstandings. I will try to run the vote so that this will not happen, and I also ask your attention. We will go to confirm the official texts of the law on legal examination, the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence, the law on professional and scientific titles, the law on national professional qualifications, the law on return of investments in the telecommunications network, the law on rail transport, the law on state administration and the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and approved or rejected by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the law on legal examination shall be confirmed. We're voting. 58 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] This Decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the officially consolidated text of the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence is confirmed. We're voting. 56 present, 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the formal text of the law on professional and scientific addresses is confirmed. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 61 present, 55 for and none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one's against it.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the officially consolidated text of the National Professional Qualifications Act is confirmed. We're voting. 59 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: the official text of the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network is confirmed. We're voting. 61 present, 57 for and none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one's against it.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: the formal text of the railway law is confirmed. We're voting. 60 present, 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the officially consolidated text of the State Administration Act is confirmed. We're voting. 58 present, 46 for and 1 for. (The vote was 46.)(against 1.) The decision is adopted. One final decision on purified texts. This time, for the text of the law on promoting coherent regional development. We are voting on the approval of the official consolidated text of the law on promoting coherent regional development. We're voting. 63 present, 56 for, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has also confirmed this officially consolidated text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. The assembly will consider under this item: a proposal by the College of the President of the National Assembly to amend and supplement the decision establishing the Committee of the National Economic Assembly, a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint an Commissioner for Access to Information of a Public Type, nine proposals by the Council of Justice on the election to a judicial function and a proposal by the Council of Justice for the appointment of the Supreme Court of Justice as well as a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the discharge of the judge of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana and on the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, a criminal section concerning a personal action brought against a Member of the National Assembly. We are now moving on to decision-making on individual matters. May I have your attention, please? We will first decide on the proposal to amend and supplement the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy. This proposal was sent to the College of the President of the National Assembly. Can we make a decision? We decide on that proposal. We're voting. 60 present, 57 for and no one against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On the basis of Article 28 of the Act on Access to Public Information, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that Mr Igor Šoltes be appointed as the Commissioner for Access to Public Information for a period of five years. The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. President, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] He wants a word from one of the MPs? I have a colleague of Jerovsk written here, but he's not in the hall. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Igor Šoltes as Commissioner. We're voting. 62 present, 51 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The Council of Justice has submitted nine proposals for election to the National Assembly for a judicial function. I have already said that we will decide first on the District Judge, the five District Judges in the District Court in Idrija, Lenart, Ljubljana, Radovljica and Trebnje, the District Judges in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, the two Judges for Offences in the Brežica Offences Judge, the proposal for appointment to the Supreme Court. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants to speak to the President of the Election Commission? [[Neither do I.]] No one's signed up, so we'll go our separate ways. We will first decide on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Erik Rus to the District Court of Justice in the Idrija District Court. We vote on the election of Mr Erik Rus as a judge. 57 present, 51 for and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Mirjana Horvat Pogorlec to the District Court of Justice in Lenart. We're voting. 53 present, 47 for and none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Ms Maja Šuštar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We vote on Ms Maja Šuštar's election to court. 57 present, 51 for, 1 versus. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Barbara Nastrán to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Radovljica. I'm sorry if I didn't read her last name correctly. 51 present, 46 for and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Maja Primožič to the district court in the District Court in Trebnje. We are voting on the proposal to elect Ms Maja Primožič as a judge. 51 present, 46 for and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Tadeja Predanič to the district court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Trebnje. We're voting. Please. 57 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Ms Milena Markovic to the judicial seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 56 present, 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Mark Bregar to the judicial seat of the Judge for Offences at the Brežica Criminal Court. We're voting. 58 present, 49 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Mitja Voglar to the judicial seat of the Judge for Offences at the Brežica Criminal Court. We're voting. 56 present, 48 for and none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. Finally, we have a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Ivan Robnik to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 59 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We are now at the proposal for a decision on discharge, namely, the judge of the jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal for a decision was proposed by a mandate-holder commission. Does the president want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We decide on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the judge of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 61 present, 53 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. We will now consider a notice from the District Court in Ljubljana, the Criminal Section, concerning a private action brought against a Member of the National Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Division, for consideration of the meeting. The term of office of the electoral commission has dealt with this. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters. Are we therefore moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that is an explanation of vote? [[...]] You'll get your word. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, of 16.5.2003, concerning the action brought by Private Prosecutor Rajko Gerič against the Member of the National Assembly, Mr Anton Anderlic, for a criminal offence and an offensive charge under Article 171 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Anton Anderlić and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings." Before the vote, Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor to explain your vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u202	I will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision. For the first time, because I have asked the Commission for a term of office not to grant immunity for a number of reasons. First of all, because the trial before the court will in no way interfere with the work of the National Assembly due to my absence, nor with my work in this case. Of course, for substantive reasons, because I believe that this action does not have any grounds, that I did not insult anyone, that an example such as this could also be the case where others, on different occasions, would invoke immunity in order that there would be no proceedings before a court, even as a result of this I do not wish to invoke immunity. I want things cleared up in this case. After all, I've already made public what was expected. To all those who, in the event of a complication that had arisen, who might have recognized it, I apologized to them. Sir, who's suing, but I don't think he was an editor at the time, or at least I didn't know that he was any editor, so I couldn't feel sorry for him. I want this to be proven in court as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u203	Can we make a decision? May I have your attention, please? We are voting on a proposal for a decision that I have read a little earlier. We're voting! 67 present, 54 for and 7 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before the end of this regular session, we will also consider the proposal for a resolution on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending the law on trade. As you know, I have put forward the motion for a ruling on my own motion as President of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on the Economy. Does President Horvath want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The government representative is here. He wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will listen first to the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, and my colleague Tsukati has the floor. I ask for a presentation on the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We probably all know what this is about. This is an initiative for a referendum given on our part twice, in some way blocked through the Constitutional Court and finally hampered by the fact that we have not already listened to the problems of sellers in the initial consideration of this important problem, but rather somehow or more to that famous freedom, economic freedom, freedom of the economic initiative. However, I am convinced that in our country, if it wants to be legal and social, this initiative nevertheless has its limits and is subordinate to other interests, and in this case it is certain that the problems and wishes of those directly involved must also play a role. It is very selfish to want, on Sundays to have all stores open, in the next phase all outpatients open, in the next phase all possible institutions open, including state offices, not only on Sundays, Saturdays, all holidays. This would be an extremely selfish desire of a ruling structure that does not know what Sunday is, what family life is, and what is actually necessary for a better quality of life. I think that in this value, when we talk about the quality of life that the government and the National Assembly must provide to the electorate, some basic quality parameters are lost. It's not just profit, it's not just money, it's not just quality consumption, quality is other things, it's more important. I think a person would justly like to be a little more aware of that. That is why we will support this, in the hope that if not this national assembly, at least voters will be able to choose between values and choose what is more written on the skin of Slovenian people, because Slovenians, Slovenians, still feel what is better for them. It is neither necessary nor permissible to always decide what is better for him; politics is often wrong. We have experienced this many times in this term.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u205	My colleague Potrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u206	Thank you very much. In the United List of Social Democrats, we support the efforts of workers in trade and their trade unions to regulate reasonably the opening times of trade. The current solutions, when almost all trades, especially in shopping centres, are open throughout the year even on Saturday evenings and Sundays, do not seem reasonable to us because they are not accepted because of consumer needs and are extremely unfriendly to workers in trade. Moreover, this practice gradually changes established family customs and opportunities and subjugates all other values of life to consumerism. Comparing the necessity of opening up trade with work and duty in health, transport, police and the like is not appropriate for us, since in these cases it is a matter of public interest to organise the whole of social life. In the event of the opening of all trades throughout the year, even on Sundays, this is mainly the interest of capital owners in certain trading companies, as the issue of the possibility of purchasing essential living needs could be more successfully addressed by on-call trades, with appropriate arrangements with local communities. In the United List of Social Democrats, we have endeavoured to regulate the issue of prudent trade opening times in agreement between owners and employees, with the cooperation of consumer organisations and with the assistance of the government. Unfortunately, we also failed because of the lack of efforts made by the government, but also because we Members, who are advocates of this issue, have proposed each of their solutions and then failed together. Regrettably, therefore, the arrogance of owners and managers, the inaction of the government and the opinion of most Members, that full liberalisation of the right direction, has led to the collection of signatures for the referendum, and trade unions have succeeded. They must be congratulated, for we know that this is a great effort and a great feat. At the referendum, citizens and citizens will decide in their own interest. The decision will have to be taken. However, if the decision is valid and for how long, it is a second question. Even before the referendum is called for, constitutional disputes about the future content of the law are announced. We are therefore convinced in the United States that no solution that will be imposed on partners will be good. Once again, negotiations will be needed, as it is not right to have all the shops open on Sundays and holidays, nor all the shops closed. That just shows our collective political incompetence. In our view, the referendum will not be a victory for anyone, but rather a defeat of communication and rational solutions. We hope that he will teach us and that we will find coordinated solutions to these questions later. An agreed regulation of this issue without a referendum would be reasonable and binding for all, for now and for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u207	I'm going to give the word to my colleague. Can I have one thing before I give you my word? Look, the clock's ticking. It is now half past six when we conclude this session, and I expect that in good time, I would ask all the leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet for a few minutes here at the centre of the debate room to decide whether to continue working today or tomorrow at ten o'clock. If there's enough support, we'll continue today, if we don't, we'll continue tomorrow. Please consult in the parliamentary groups. Comrade Peca, you have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall. In the end, the decision will fall immediately. Please, my friend Peca. Peace in the hall. If you can make this a secret, so that you don't disturb your colleagues, we'll all be grateful. Please, Mr. Burns.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u208	According to the Slovenian National Party, the story of opening time and the matter in this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u209	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u210	Of course, the story of the conflict between the sides of capital or the interests of capital and the interests of working people. [[...]] On the other hand, the whole story points to a lack of respect for the social partners of the government and the ruling parties who, according to our assessment, have achieved that the matter has been going on for so long and that the country will stand so long. According to our assessment of Slovenian policy, the government, government parties are over-appreciating capital. Thus, employees throughout the story did not have their own representative in the process, which would have the opportunity to make it shorter and more effective. That's why they took the last chance to achieve theirs, according to my assessment of the rightful objective, that's, to choose a referendum. But even here, the story was not that simple. This National Assembly has stalled, and the National Assembly has included the Constitutional Court twice in the game, completely unnecessary, by requesting their opinion. In short, politics has made its point. She said she didn't want the referendum, she said she was on the side of the capital and she didn't really care about the employees. In spite of all of this, the referendum candidate was able to gather the required number of votes early under the referendum law and the people's initiative and thus fulfilled all the conditions for the referendum. The fact is that there will be a referendum, and the fact is that people will decide on it. In the Slovenian National Party, we have always been on the side of employees, we have always focused our activities on enabling them to do the best possible work and fair pay. It is true, however, that we are not excited about the referendum, because the referendum will cost the country 500 million Slovenian tolars. We estimate that, at the start of the negotiations, the social partners chose the right role when they tried to achieve their role by communicating with the government, but unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also fell here, so that they really had no choice but to collect the necessary signatures. However, in the framework of the Slovenian National Parties, we would like to point out the following. First, despite the threats that were exposed, both openly and secretly, they were able to collect signatures. In the event of a positive referendum, the leaders of the trade fairs said that a few hundred people would begin to forgive. Of course it doesn't. Preparedness after consumption does not depend on the day of opening trade, given that there are six days left, because the fact is that we will spend what is intended and prepared on certain other days if we cannot do so on Sunday. On the other hand, the threats of leading men would exist only at a time when the government would regulate opening or opening time selectively. That means to one merchant yes, not to the other. Thank God, these provisions exist in our society, the rules apply to all, so the threat cannot be sustained. On the other hand, I personally assess that it is difficult to work seven days a week. Our employee or our working week, honourable Members and Members, ends on Friday, usually at 2 p.m. And if, after 2 p.m., someone expresses a desire to speak for this speaker, it's a nuisance. But if anyone demanded another break just before the day's end, but if the eyes could kill, this Member would no longer be with us. I just want to show you how guilty we are. We beg every day outside in the lobby, in the joints, when our workday is extended. But with that easy, you want people to work all week long. I don't think that's fair. I sincerely hope the referendum succeeds. All congratulations to the initiators for the referendum and I sincerely hope and I will take the speech of Mr Potrč, at least the conclusion: I hope you have gained enough wisdom so that you will no longer repeat such stories by a government party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u211	My friend Brenčič. Can you, Comrade Brenčič, come and speak? Mr Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will support the draft decree in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. There has been no change in this issue in our parliamentary group, and it will not be now and in the future. It is time, however, that some kind of agony that accompany this issue and that we are essentially causing it here in this national assembly is over. And this ends in the way that is written in the law, that people decide and as they decide, that is how we will have to act. It is a shame, however, and it is right for people to decide when, in the necessary partnership dialogue, two people who are needed and interdependent are unable to agree, or when simply a stronger one does not give up for the benefit of the weaker one. If that is the case, then it is up to people to decide, and also with us, who will decide with the referendum, and that is why we take part in the responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u213	My colleague Kvačič, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and the presentation of positions, will be concluded by a colleague of mag. It's a trifle. Please, Comrade Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u214	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, support the proposal of the LDS in the House of Representatives. We are bound by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In addition, this is a very important issue. We are very close to the thought expressed in the explanation given by the Constitutional Court, which said that the opening times of trade are such an important issue for which there are legitimate reasons to raise citizens and citizens. That's right. On the other hand, it is true that this is such an important issue that it is more useful to seek a compromise between interested groups, these are employees, these are traders, shopkeepers, managers, and this is already mentioned by all citizens and citizens as buyers, and these are also potential job seekers, unemployed, who are still very interested in what the possibility of employment in trade will be. In the Liberal Democracy, we see a little more critical of the direction in which this issue is developing. We were pleased to monitor the high level of consensus reached between the social partners last year. We are also pleased that, in the last period, there has now been a very common position around working conditions in less favourable working hours. However, it seems to us that the attempt to resolve the working conditions of traders in less favourable working hours through referendum pressure will not bring those desired results to the workers in trade. We also strongly support workers in trade in the Liberal Democracy in all their requirements, which are in line with the Labour Relations Act. We expect more stringent work inspections, but we are skeptical of whether, on this path, it will lead to mandatory trade closure on Sundays, what benefits we can get for employees in trade. We're afraid not. This is a major systemic error, which has also been observed in the discussions. It is about blurring the difference between working hours of a natural person, worker, worker, and working hours of trade. The trading time, which is longer, spans, for example, 7 days a week, causes an increase in the required number of working hours for which more employees are required. And in this direction, of course, it would be appropriate to seek solutions. We are therefore afraid that the continuation of the referendum efforts constitutes an unfortunate solution for the workers in trade in both cases. If the referendum fails, this will be a bitter experience for all of us, and we can agree that it is a pity that we have not come to these solutions in another way. However, if the referendum initiative succeeds, this will result in a mandatory reduction in the need for the number of employees in trade. That's an urgent economic consequence. By force of marriage, we may move away, blurring, but of course, we cannot avoid them. I therefore strongly hope that efforts will continue to be made to agree on good working conditions for workers in trade, both in normal and in less favourable working hours. We hope that this referendum will not succeed, as this will achieve success for workers in trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u215	We will also hear the position of the New Slovenia Group and then conclude the presentation of the positions. A colleague of mags. Comrade Drobnic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u216	We will support the proposal for a referendum in the parliamentary group for the basic reasons we have presented several times in our presentations. Slovenia faced an important decision by this law or by regulating the opening time of trade. Not only is it open on Sundays or not, but it's a deeper civilisational decision. What one sociologist mentioned is whether we will promote in society that, in addition to trying to have something, we will allow it to be something else. That's the question. If we continue to deal with these opening times trends and the like, this will extend to other activities. The store itself has pulled the others and is now pulling the rest of the activities so that it can be opened. Post-industrial society requires a regime in which a person will also be, not just have. In Novi Slovenija we advocate such arrangements as most European countries have. If the opening time of trade on Sunday meant an increase in jobs, they would probably have done so in Germany and in France, as well as in Switzerland, even when faced with unemployment. Maybe even open state offices on Sundays and Saturdays and hire extra workers. That simple thinking is not going to work. Many shops and many jobs have collapsed in this anarchic story. Some jobs have been created on this account at the capital. That's the truth. The results are clear, or analyses clearly show that deregulation of operating time does not mean an increase in the number of employees over the longer term, but even a reduction. The purchasing power of the population is constant and there is nothing more to cover. Even this is how we think in New Slovenia: we are in some sense also on the side of capital, not the most destructive, but the one that has a sense of the dimension of the human soul. If we put in place six-day workshops for all trades, they will eventually reduce the costs of trading traders, trades, because they will reduce material costs. However, traders also want the same rules for everyone. For precisely these reasons we will support this referendum in Novi Slovenije. I'm afraid that's what happened. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we have introduced the necessary law, which would otherwise regulate, as is the case in France, as it is in England. By these models. There was no need for will on the part of the ruling coalition, which is why this referendum is actually on their side. These are facts, and beyond these facts it is impossible to go. Unfortunately, there will be a referendum in Slovenia and perhaps also an opportunity for Slovenians and Slovenes to show the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia what they want to have in a post-industrial society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u217	We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I'm proposing this decision. I would like to inform you that his essence is a proposal for a date. For the date, 21 September 2003 is proposed. I can see that discussions are now going far away from this question. There's a lot of applications here now. Please, if we could stick to this point of the agenda. Comrade Jerovšek is first reported, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Your Honor! When I take this decision, I am happy and sad. I'm glad the frightened workers were fighting an important victory. We know that they were under intense pressure, often despised, exploited, yet they were able to achieve that victory. But I'm sad that this victory of the workers has only cooled my head. According to today's presentations by the parliamentary groups, after some of the pirouettes of some parliamentary groups I see that some would again be representatives of the working class. It is unnecessary for us to have a referendum if we were to think the same way at the time, if we were on the workers' side at the time. On this side, I am sad that we will spend 600 million on this and that some will point to workers, to people and to those parties who have had the same position from the beginning. Many today stand up, again, for established family habits, for family. Although I think the idea behind this was from the very beginning the destruction of established Slovenian customs and values and on the basis of the breaking of the spine, to ensure political and ideological supremacy. Here, at the stage of the adoption of this law, capital was strongly stronger. He wrote decrees, wrote constitutional complaints, and so on. Public benefit, such as family, has been neglected. This week, in fact, the family was despised in this House when a fellow Diaca proposed an important debate on fertility, birth in Slovenia, a worrying phenomenon, which is very much related to the value of the family. Of course you've been vehemently rejecting that. I hope that when, in fact, Slovenian people have in some way become bold and boldly signed under some referendum initiative that this is a shift in behaviour. I strongly hope and, in fact, I would like the National Assembly to express its expectation that trade workers will not be subjected to further threats and pressures in preparation for the referendum. It's terrible that this is happening. I hope you've read the contribution of journalist Milan Petk on Saturday's annex to the Dinner, when he writes about these threats, how workers have to, when they offer them a microphone, tell them how they're going to decide, and they don't hope in the camera, only on the last page can the camera shoot them. And Mira Friday is a person who's put through threats, not just a threat that knows what intimidation is and can write about it in a sovereign way. I think that we should get a message from this house that everyone who intimidates workers for their freedom of decision, for their representation of their constitutional rights and also for their public benefit, that they are all working against the Slovenian Constitution and against Slovenian laws and that this will eventually end. Capital has a lot of other power, and it doesn't have to be intimidated by poor workers, humiliated people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u219	My friend Barovic wants a word after him, Comrade Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You yourself said that it was your initiative to put forward a motion for a ruling. And so it is. 40,000 signatures have been collected. There will be a referendum. If you wish, I will also reply to the content of this debate with the first sentence: I agree with the proposed date, September 21st. However, if this is a decree, allow me, like everyone else, to tell myself what I already am, and I think it has something to do with this decision. I'll be brief. Twelve years in Slovenia we have a new policy and a new economic regulation, that is a fact. We swear on a market system that destroys or raises success or failures on the basis of supply and demand. If the employer violates his obligations, does this have to resolve the national assembly and referendum? If the employer does not respect the rights, if threatened, it must resolve the national assembly and referendum or the labour inspection or the competent judicial and other authorities? If the employer does not pay the workers honestly, does this have to resolve the national assembly and referendum? If the union doesn't do its job, does it have to solve the national council and referendum? If employers and employees are unable to find an agreement on the organisation of work and life, must this resolve the national assembly and referendum again? Mr Potrč said well, because we cannot, but now we will close everything - a matter of agreement between the employer and the employee and the union, between the competent institutions, that certain trades are open at a certain time to respect the rights of the labour law of all workers and workers. Colleagues and colleagues, remember, on Sundays there are also police and police officers, soldiers and soldiers, waitresses and cooks, waiters and cooks. What if the beach pulls out and the National Assembly solves disputes between the employer and the employee, because the employer doesn't respect the rules, we have an inspection to do it; because the union doesn't do its job, and the secretary who sits has 300 euros to pay does nothing? I think we need to be honest. It's a referendum. The outcome of the referendum will be what it will be. It is no question that on Sundays a lot more people are employed, I am afraid that the question will be that due to the outcome of the referendum, there will be a lot of unemployment and some stigma or misunderstanding. Then the National Assembly will deal with it again. The legitimate and legal right of trade was, they collected more than 40,000 signatures, the referendum will be held. I agree with the proposed date, Mr President, but I am afraid that all the consequences of this will be borne by us in place of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u221	Please, Comrade Mag. It's a trifle. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u222	They are areas that cannot be regulated only within the framework of a social agreement. That's clear. That's why we have a referendum, a real colleague. Yeah, that's right. If this position is not balanced, perhaps even because of some processes in society, it is wise, it is good, it is reasonable for the State to enter. Then, in fact, they could do the same in the field of labour relations, and they would let themselves negotiate. You know the one about the judge who judged in the early 20th century and thought that such interference by the State was a violation of a free economic initiative. In Novi Slovenija we also believe that such regulation is necessary in Slovenia at the moment. And especially because I see it on TV, in the paper, no one wants to be identified from the shopkeepers. As my colleague Jerovšek said: I allow you to film me in the back. I'll let you tell me what I said, but don't name your last name in the paper. Is this freedom? That's why we have to do this. We have a law on working relationships. We have an inspection. And what the shopkeeper came to me and said, "In the last month, I've been working for 30 days if I can't get out." Even those cards about "counting" when they're coming, you can avoid it, I'll tell you. Let's see what happened in 10 years. How many shops are there in the suburban part of town? How many more are in the countryside? These were jobs, they were sellers, and this was also for rural development. He's only in the center right now. It is this, dear colleagues and colleagues, who will own all stores in Slovenia. Here we will oppose the fact that it is in the hands of two people. Not at the cost of being less competitive, but to end up paying the monopoly over higher prices and through job cuts. That's why I'm saying it. This is why such regulation is needed in Slovenia right now. There's no need for a referendum. I already told you why. If we respected all these circumstances, the law drafted by Nova Slovenije would be adopted. It's pride and cynicism. I wonder what the Chamber of Economics is doing, whether she is also a representative of a small economy. When I ask some merchants, not the big ones, the three, the four, they don't answer me. They say I don't hope to answer. Well, that's all in terror. These are the reasons why such regulation is necessary in Slovenia. Perhaps five years or 10 years from now, if we do something about values, respect for market order, respect for legislation and the constitution, it may not be necessary. It'll make sense. The merchants will find out why it's going. At this point, it's necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u223	Comrade Visjak. You're giving up. My friend Peca is not in the hall. Comrade Sushinik. Please. There aren't enough debaters to complete, so I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We decide on the proposal for a decree on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending the trade law, which will cost this country 600 million tolars. I don't think anything like this should happen to us. This happened to us because most consciously overlooked the drafting of Article 17 of the Trade Act and tied the decision on Sunday's work to working co-ordination or to the legislation on labour co-ordination, which you all know or know, which was confirmed by the bill's proposer, Madam Minister of Economy, that it never lived and lived. This was the first and basic reason for the call for this referendum. Another reason that we have overlooked or overlooked is that one of the key unions decided to withdraw their agreement to such an arrangement immediately prior to the adoption of such an arrangement or article 17, because of the inability of an agreement with the owners. We missed all of this, and it costs us 600 million tolars at the final stage. I just can't understand that we did it in a healthy mind or that we did it in a hot tub. However, I am reluctant to believe that this is happening consciously mainly because of the planned evaluation of the Institute of the Referendum. I think it's time to confirm that. I will also conclude my debate with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u225	My friend Puksich's not here. Even Comrade Kremjar, then we will conclude the debate. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u226	Thank you very much, President. I will respect the will of at least 40,000 voters, and I will also respect the will of the majority referendum decision, which will be whatever it is. But no one can make me think like that, and I don't think so. I mean, of course, unlike these 40,000 voters, and like everything that is going on about this topic and this referendum, this question has happened, what is going to happen and what is going to happen. I am deeply convinced that there must be no violence against the simplest economic logic, but it is not in the interests of capital, it is in the interests of all people. A simple economic logic is in everyone's interest, and capital in this case and consumers in this case and employees in this case. It's a circle that conditiones each other. If capital is satisfied with profit, consumers will be satisfied because they will have open trades, even when they will not have them, and if we have always more so-called European working time, when people cannot go to shops every day every Sunday because trade is full, the shops are full. Nobody forces these people into the store, and they're there. After all, to round up this circle I'm talking about, they're busy here. If all of this is done, they will also be satisfied with their work because they will have to get what is theirs, if they are employed, and if they are working at that time. That's why it's a circle where it's conditioned with each other. We're interfering with this natural economic cycle with some kind of violence. We're dealing with violence because we want to change it the way we think it's right and we need to do it. And that's not right. It is not right that politics interferes with this matter, absolutely wrong. All these stories about how we're protecting our family and not knowing who, but we're also protecting those people who won't have a job that they might lose because of that or not get it? Or are we protecting those who will have a free Sunday and thus a cheaper wallet? And what can those free Sundays with a little less money afford if I'm still a little demagog? Very demagog, but still [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u227	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u228	I am deeply convinced that there are some laws that need to be respected and in which there is no need to interfere. One of these is the one I was talking about earlier. That is why, as I say, I will respect this will, but I do not agree with it, and I will never agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u229	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u230	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u231	Then we'll go to the vote. I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u232	Just for a little while in two sentences. I am sure that the 21 September referendum will be open, in this direction, for Slovenian consumers to decide that they do not agree that trade is open on Sundays. I'm pretty sure of that. This, of course, will say not to brutal capitalism, which is in this state on the march. However, it seems immoral to me that employers and some people here in Parliament today, with their debates, are already pointing forward to the fact that a referendum decision on behalf of a free initiative will be taken before a court of law. Even if it were, I don't think the court would have decided differently than the Slovenians and the Slovenians would have decided at the referendum. But if so, of course there is another foreigner for Slovenia as a member of the European Union. Just one more sentence to finish. If, of course, the majority will of those who have canvas and scissors in hand in this House, the referendum would not be necessary and this 600 million could possibly be earmarked for student homes, not to encourage student work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u233	Good. This concludes the general debate. We'll move on to decision-making. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We vote on the motion for a ruling. 63 present, 56 for and none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The referendum on opening times of trade shall be held on Sunday 21 September 2003. This concludes this point. We have until the end of the third point, this is the third reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on police. On Thursday 10.7., we had a second reading of the bill. The amendments have not been adopted to the amended law, we are voting on the law on amendments and additions to the law on police. We're in the middle of a vote. 66 present, 51 for and 13 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act has been adopted. We conclude the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. It's ten minutes past nine. I believe that the vast majority agree that today it is too late for the National Assembly to call yet to ask for peace. [[...]] As I said, if opinions are shared, then I will ask the President of the competent working body and the leaders of the parliamentary groups for a five-minute consultation here in the middle of the National Assembly Hall. I'll let you know in a few minutes about our decision. The President, please, if you will come with us. Five minutes, heads of parliamentary groups and chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u234	I was left to decide. There will be a meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow at 10 a.m. Now the chairman of the committee is likely to convene a working body. Please, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u235	Thank you. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee shall continue at 7.30 p.m. in room 212.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-15-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u236	Thank you.
