ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, a beautiful, good day to you! I begin the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Vojko Čeligoj, Marko Diaci, Roman Jakič, Victory Jelinčič Nobility, Jožef Jerovšek for the start of the session, Jelko Kacin, Franc Kangler from 17.30 p.m., Ivan Kebrič, Branko Kelemina, Aloyz Peterle for the start of the session, Janez Podobnik, Franz Pukšič, Pavel Rupar, Franz Sušnik and Bogomir Vnučec. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I welcome very well. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. We're voting. At 56, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly is set, with one item on the agenda, that is, by considering the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of draft constitutional law, international integration and cooperation - the proposal for amendments to Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68. So we're going to move on to 1. Agenda item - Defence proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, international integration and cooperation - Proposal for amendment 3, 8, 47. And 68. Member. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We will lead the debate and the decision-making process in accordance with Rule 178 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We will first discuss the proposal to initiate a procedure for amending Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68 of the Constitution. After the discussion, we will vote on the proposal for a decision of the home working body, the Constitutional Commission, to initiate such a procedure. If the proposal for a decision is adopted, we will discuss the draft constitutional law and the views of the Constitutional Commission on the draft constitutional law. We are therefore moving first to a debate on the proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal. Mr Mirko Bandelj, Secretary General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. On 26 July 2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This was based on the urgent changes highlighted by the ten-year political practice, as well as the legal and political profession. In drawing up its proposal, the Government fully listened to the expert group set up for this purpose and made a proposal to the National Assembly, including separate opinions, without prejudice to it in any way. In this way, the government wanted to open as wide a professional and political debate as possible on the necessary changes to the Constitution and also to seek the greatest possible political consensus for these changes. Given the progress of the debate and the success of Slovenia in its integration activities into the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, it has been shown that within the government proposal for constitutional changes it is necessary to give priority to those changes that enable the achievement of Slovenian foreign policy objectives. The Government therefore agreed in November to split its proposal into several sets and to give priority to the revisions of Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68 of the Constitution. With regard to Slovenia's involvement in the North Atlantic links, the government has always stressed that the decision will be left to Slovenian citizens and citizens. That is why she also sought the possibility of a clear and credible positive outcome of the two referendums, aware that as much as possible a consensus of Slovenian policy could contribute to this. The government and government parties have been committed to this at all times and have committed themselves to binding the referendum results, irrespective of the legal arrangements of the referendum, on the Slovenian authorities. We have been looking all the time for solutions that would allow the referendum result to be decided by clearly valid people's votes and that this decision is not decided again at the referendum. The proposal for the views of the Constitutional Commission follows the Government's expectations and we therefore support it and propose to the National Assembly to adopt them. At the same time, the Government expects that, immediately after the adoption of the constitutional law to amend and implement the amendments to Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68 of the Constitution, the discussion of the other proposals of the Government regarding constitutional changes will continue, in particular with regard to the amendments to Article 90 of the Constitution. The government reiterates that the aim of the amendments to the referendum regime is not to reduce the standards of direct democracy and limit people's decision-making, but only to find more rational solutions in this area, which are also expected by Slovenian voters. We are confident that in this way we will only strengthen the confidence of citizens and citizens in the instruments of direct democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. I ask the rapporteur of the Commission, Mr Borut Pahor, to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia meets for the first time in this term as a founder. Our decision today - I hope that it will be adopted - will not be the end, but the start of the constitutional audit procedure for the four articles of the Slovenian Constitution, paragraphs 3, 8, 47 and 68, which regulate our constitutional material in the field of international cooperation. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the State to take a decision to initiate a procedure to amend these four articles and to adopt five views on the draft constitutional law to amend these articles. If the National Assembly adopts this decision today and formulates them after the next meeting of the Constitutional Commission in a constitutional law that will be adopted at the next meeting as soon as possible in February, we will decide on the entry into the European Union and NATO on 28 March. This referendum will be binding. The decision will be taken if it is voted on by the majority of voters who cast the votes in force and the referendum cannot be repeated. Allow me to express my satisfaction that the Constitutional Commission, after a firm search for the right solutions, has found compromises that are professionally justified and have very broad political support. I believe that this is a very important achievement of dialogue between the political groups, which allow our country to meet the conditions necessary for it to enter into two integrations if this is the way that our electorates and voters will decide on their conscience on 23 March this year. Whether I am allowed to ask this High Council to focus, today and in the coming days, on the Constitutional Commission and on its final decision in February, on the issue and outcomes ahead of us in particular. Not the ones we left behind with compromise and agreement. I hope that today's debate will contribute to the adoption of these proposed amendments to the four articles of the Slovenian Constitution, which will also send a very important message to our citizens and citizens, as well as to the international community: what are the interests and objectives of the Slovenian State for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The presentation of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will first be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u6	The full political consensus on entry and the loss of sovereignty and the identity of our own country will not be. The Slovenian national party will not support this "issue" of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that with the operation of politics, government policies, the governments of the Republic of Slovenia and all those parties that support the government, Slovenia or Slovenian politics, the plebiscite decision is played by citizens and citizens who choose to live in a independent and sovereign country, their own country. As of today, the National Assembly is starting the story that the Slovenian government had started years ago. It's to give up our sovereignty. To remove the word "Slovak" from our vocabulary. To take the word for being a European. To suddenly forget our own history and to be willing to accept or be willing to accept anything foreign because you feel that what is foreign is better than our own. With this, of course, you have the legitimate right to acknowledge your incompetence, your inability to bring this stately step forward, how to show it better tomorrow. Since your ability reaches only those limits that are called imitation, we assess in the Slovenian National Party that this is very bad. We'll lose our territory, we'll lose our currency, we'll lose our army, we'll lose our executive, we'll lose our legislative power. We'll lose everything we own. True, probably a lot of people will say, "There was nothing of quality in this country." But this is a reflection of that political party that has been in the leadership of this country for more or less the last ten years. If people are unhappy with this, maybe they have a right to. In no way do I think they have the right to decide that the 90 Members in here will suddenly be no longer Slovenians. If the President of the Constitutional Commission has expressed satisfaction, of course, I cannot express satisfaction over this, as on behalf of the Slovenian National Party we cannot express satisfaction, but we can only look at and understand the functioning of other political parties on the Slovenian political scene with a great deal of sadness. We enter or try to bring us into those integrations for which they are not yet appointed today, whether they have legal personality or not. How can such integration, where we do not know what its powers are, where we do not know how to get out of this integration? In short, we're getting into something, and we don't know what the beginning is or what the end is. Just because this is modern and because you are not able to bring the country forward on your own, you will imitate, like the other candidates, and adapt, you will fully adapt to the alien. All developments around the link between NATO and the European Union and, of course, related constitutional changes indicate only one thing: it indicates a very cheap pre-election demagogy. It shows the situation where you are not normal and on the right path to people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which are the advantages, if any, and which are the weaknesses that are quite, of these international integrations and therefore you try to introduce the game, force the existing game to inform day-to-day customers of information by policy how this is necessary. We also estimate that the course of events following the decision taken by the National Assembly on a referendum is misleading for citizens. Deceiving in this form that today we will start a procedure to change the Constitution and tell people, at the end of the stage, it is not at all an important decision of citizens and citizens at the referendum, which is signed out openly only for the sake of the better, because in the constitution we will write that we have transferred the sovereignty and autonomy of the Republic of Slovenia to foreigners. Something like this has been happening for a long time within the framework of legislation, but we have started to create this in the highest legal act today. It was not long ago that we were trying to show in the Slovenian National Party before the National Assembly a law on the prevention of restriction of competition and the law on acquisitions, written in the same way as some European countries do. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the support of members of the National Assembly, said, no, the Slovenian economy cannot be protected, it must go unprotected to the European market Why? To make it easier for strangers to accept us. Because of the fact that we will be accepted as an uncompetitive partner, we will become Slovenia. Once the word "mollow cow" was used - it will be Slovenia. We estimate that in all of this, especially those who are able to monitor, regrettably, not to co-decision, only to monitor, as Members of the Slovenian National Party, we have come to realize that the individual activities that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia commands us to do are a constitutional commission, or a large part of Members, connected only to somehow creating an impression of democracy in this country. We all know that for the past few years, the National Assembly has adopted laws that have been inscribed in the explanatory memorandum "under the directive of the European Union, we are changing this and that". What is the point of people bluffing and talking to them about some option of a referendum and telling them that their will will be respected, while changing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which indicates where Slovenia belongs - where you have classified it, that is to say, into a subordinate State of the European Union or whether there will be North Atlantic links. We estimate that there is a completely flawed pace of work. We estimate that it would make sense to change the constitution, in the form of a founder, or by amending the laws, in the form of a legislator, to wait for the outcome of the referendum, where it would be clear to us what people in this country want. Do they want to enter and become a second-rate partner in European relations? No, we said in the National Assembly, we're not waiting for a referendum, we're going to change everything, and then we're going to ask people, by the way, for the better, but not for the better because of them, but for the better in Europe, that we're going to look prettier and more democratic in this country. Politics has long decided what to do. It has decided that, according to our assessment, citizens and citizens will sell, sell their lives and their standards so that some individuals who are now willing to do everything in this country in order to gather to individual gentlemen abroad do not care about their own nation. And if the National Assembly has not adopted a proposal on several occasions to continue the process of introducing European legislation into Slovenian legislation only after a clear outcome of the referendum, this time I appeal to Members or to the National Assembly [[I borrowed that word from Mr. Pahor, President of the National Assembly]] At least in this decision he tries to understand the meaning of the word being Slovenian. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the proposal for amendments and further activities in connection with the event led by you, the actors for whom we assess, and this is justified in sitting here solely on the grounds of your own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished President of the National Assembly and President of the Constitutional Commission and members of the Constitutional Commission and all others present! On behalf of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, I would like to speak a few short sentences, because I believe that we have brought the matter to this point after a rather difficult ordeal, a great deal of work done both in the Constitutional Commission, in the Group of Members, that we have, however, reached this point in order to begin the procedure for amending the Constitution in Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68, and that we have achieved here quite a great unity of political parties or sent groups. I hope this is as it was at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission. I'm pleased that we've come to this. I think I can also express my gratitude to the President of the Constitutional Commission and to the members of the perseverance, to the diligence and patience, because many have indicated that they would rather throw the rifle into the corn. And many times it has pointed to this, but there has been enough courage, enough will and determination to keep it from happening. I think we are ahead of a big decision, so here in Parliament, before the beginning of the constitutional change, which is the reason for something else. The reason is that Slovenia wants to become an equal, equal member of the European Union, that Slovenia wants to become an equal, equal member of North Atlantic integration or NATO. This is what now obliges us to adapt those articles of the Constitution in order to make it possible. We believe that this is a great achievement for our country, for the Slovenians, that the future act of Slovenia's inclusion in the European Union and then something great for what we did on 23 December 1990 when we decided to be independent. At that time we said that we are leaving the former integration of Yugoslavia, that we want the independent, independent Republic of Slovenia, which today, as such, is being integrated into European integration. We do not see fear that we will be in a subordinate position, that we will be less than we are today, but that we will be something more. We belong to the community of the countries and peoples of this Europe, and we must also be included economically and through the defence line. This is followed by an amendment to at least those articles of the Constitution that will allow us to do so. We are committed to doing so. That is how we support the proposal to initiate the amendment of the Constitution in Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68, and we will also vote in favour. We do not fear losing our sovereignty if we pass on the work of this sovereignty to a higher form. In the form of those who have already done so 40 years ago, those who have joined later, and today some smaller than the Republic of Slovenia can survive and progress in this integration some exemplary and significant, then this is also an opportunity for us. I want us to follow that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by mag. Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to brief you on the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on constitutional changes. The proposal for a position on the proposed amendments to the so-called European Article has been accurately presented by our Group in a document addressed by the Constitutional Commission at its January meeting. Thus, I will take our main points of view very briefly. In the Member States of the European Union, not only their internal legal order but also the law of the European Communities apply. Therefore, these countries do not exercise in their entirety all those rights which are vested in sovereign countries. The transfer of the exercise of the work of sovereign rights to the level of the community in which the candidate State is included should be regulated in its internal constitutional order. That's the job we're doing right now. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Groups, we believe that the transfer of the enforcement of part of national sovereignty is undoubtedly necessary through a constitutional change and therefore we support the amendment of Article 3 of the Constitution. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the Government's position that the existing Article 8 of the Constitution does not provide sufficient basis for the conclusion of an international treaty of accession to the European Union because, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, international treaties are concluded which become part of internal law by ratification and publication. The Treaty of Accession is different because it introduces the recognition and validity of both primary and secondary European Community law each time. We therefore support the proposed amendment to Article 8 in the Group of Members. We are also pleased in the Group of Members that agreement has been reached on a restrictive approach to the amendment of Article 47, which speaks of the extradition of our citizens. We have advocated the importance of preserving the protection of Slovenian citizens in the parliamentary group from the very beginning, and therefore we support the view that extradition is limited only to the international court and the Member States of the European Union. With regard to the proposed amendments to Article 68 of the Constitution, we have been detained in the parliamentary group from the very beginning. We have already changed this article to join the European Union. Before ratifying the European Association Agreement due to the non-conformity of part of its provisions governing the acquisition of the property rights of foreigners on immovable property, the National Assembly has already amended Article 68 of the Constitution. While we agree with the expert group's position that the official promise made by Slovenia to amend Article 68 in accordance with the government proposal should not constitute an obstacle to a fully autonomous professional evaluation of this problem. However, we support and understand the need for the promise to be kept. Colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we are pleased that agreement has been reached at yesterday's meeting of the Constitutional Commission on the adoption of views on a proposal for constitutional amendments to adopt or supplement the so-called European Article. We hope that this will also be supported as widely as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that changes to the Constitution are intended primarily for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. This must be enshrined in our Constitution as much as possible, and therefore we also oppose an abstract approach to Article 3 of the Constitution. With regard to all the other changes, however, we believe that it is necessary to take time to study them thoroughly and to make a rush with them in no way. However, the most inappropriate time is just before the referendum on Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO. Any constitutional change should therefore be thoroughly examined. And we fear that we would not take any reckless steps in overlying constitutional changes. Additional proposals trying to regulate the number of votes in the referendums do not seem necessary to us. Finally, it is important to ask what invalid votes are actually. There is a high likelihood that these ballots have been broadcast by those who, in principle, were against the referendum issue rather than the referendum issue. And it doesn't make sense for us to remove such voices from the game. These ballots are almost certainly broadcast by people from the protest, and we could quietly evaluate them as we have at all the referendums we have so far. Just before the conclusion of the procedure for the inclusion and implementation of referendums, we cannot change the long years of the applicable rules of the game. This is as if at the middle of the football game we changed the rules by extending the game by 20 minutes, hoping that the preferred team will win. We are now in exactly the situation where we should be able to take advantage of the institute of the previous consultation referendum, which the current constitution is enabling us to do. At this referendum, citizens should ask whether they want to join the European Union and NATO, and on the basis of the answers received at such referendums, how to continue to amend the Constitution. If it was necessary to change it at all. And now we're going to change the constitution and then ask people in their opinion. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we are convinced that the procedure for amending the Constitution with regard to the so-called European Article must be waited. It is even more unacceptable for us to change the rules of the game during the referendum process itself, which has already begun with the adoption of the decision on the referendum in the National Assembly. Constitutional changes should wait until 23 March, when the citizens' will will is known at the referendums and thus the real basis for the adoption or non-acceptance of constitutional changes governing the transfer of the work of sovereign rights. What if the referendum doesn't work? Will we then go back to modifying the Constitution and then, today or tomorrow’s adopted articles, then delete them again from the Constitution? Or we will just leave them if we accidentally decide to approach some other international abstract relationship of an interstate or supra-national nature in the future. In the Young Slovenia Party, we oppose the possibility of transferring Slovenian sovereignty to an unspecified international organisation or, worse still, an unspecified security structure. In the Party of Young Slovenia we will vote against any change to the Constitution before 23 March. We believe that pre-referendum time needs to be used primarily for a qualitative presentation of the arguments on which citizens can decide, but not to deal fruitlessly with constitutional changes and internal political struggles. In our SMS, we want citizens to take a decision at the referendum on Slovenia's entry into NATO on the basis of a reasoned debate, because we are convinced that the reasoned presentation of positions ensures a high degree of democracy in the country, but not that in the end, citizens will vote against the stupidity of politicians who, instead of reasoning, deal with the entanglement of constitutional changes. Then they will indeed be able to laugh at you excusedly abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and thank you in advance if you'll leave me to my word, colleague Anderlich. Today, we are essentially deciding because the procedure that has been going on for some time and in which we are dealing with the actual changes needed to join the European Union is now stuck to solving the very specific dilemmas that we have come up with, because we have been trying to resolve these dilemmas in the wrong ways for as long as these wrong ways are not enough. First, something about the amendments to Articles 3, 8, 47, and 68. In practically all four cases it is about adapting the Slovenian acquis, in which case the constitutional order requires a European acquis. That's okay. What is not right is, in our opinion, an approach is chosen mainly in Article 3, which, in our entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, is taken in an abstract way. When the Constitutional Commission, with the majority of the government's coalition, voted such an approach, although the majority of the profession was not in favour of it, it proved that this abstract approach would cause many dilemmas and many problems. Some are predictable, many may appear over time. We therefore regret that there has been such a solution, which has been adopted by voting and contrary to the majority opinion of the profession that has participated in this constitutional change. It was not all the profession for a concrete approach, the opinions were shared, but most of the profession was for a more concrete or combined approach. So all the problems arising from this selected abstract approach go to the shoulders and on the account of those who voted on it. These solutions, which have been in preparation for some time now in these positions, which are before us and in this proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure, are also bound by proposals for a solution to the complications that occurred when a government coalition with a solo action called for two consultative referendums. As early as 30 January, when this decision was taken, we warned that it was a mistake that we would have to correct. And today we are preparing this mistake. Yes, regardless of what has happened so far, it has been so reasonable that it has nevertheless agreed to the constructive proposals with which we are correcting this mistake, and we welcome it. At the same time, I would like to point out that, as early as 24 December 2002, our parliamentary group, which is the end of last year, has proposed to seek a way out of the problems caused mainly by the timing of the referendum decision on the European Union and NATO in constitutional changes. We have proposed to seek solutions either by constitutional law or by amending the Constitution. We have put both of these solutions into the procedure or within the coalition of Slovenia. Despite the fact that they were available, at the table virtually the whole of January, the solutions by which these three key shortcomings, which are present, in view of the existing legislation in the referendum decision and also of the European Union and NATO, were addressed, in some way, to the last of these solutions, were not intended to be cut. So today, and this needs to be said honestly, and those who have already criticised this are right, we are essentially changing the rules of the game with these solutions. That's what we do. And there is a bad taste in such behavior. However, we believe that this is a minor evil in the situation, so from this point of view this move is admissible and we supported it yesterday on the Constitutional Commission and we will do it today. This resolves the three key dilemmas that have been followed up by the current and chosen way of deciding Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO. The first dilemma that has been and is now being addressed by this procedure to initiate a constitutional change is the question of the mandatory or optional nature of the referendums. With this solution, which is proposed, we will actually make a decision in such a way that people will decide, not that someone will just consult with them. With this solution ahead of us, it is now finally proposed that we do not consider invalid votes against. In view of the relatively strongly divided opinion, especially when it comes to the decision on NATO, this can be a step that can actually save Slovenian politics from a very unenviable situation if it is precisely these ballots that decide the referendum outcome and then argue for years and decades about what it was like. What is crucial to this solution is that we are now making this decision transparent in the sense that before deciding at the referendum, we will know that we are actually deciding at that time. That there will not be another referendum or two under the same ratification procedure and that this threat should the first referendum be successful, because if it were not, the procedure is concluded in one way or another, so that this threat does not prevent or threaten the ratification process in parliaments of countries already members of NATO or of the European Union. In fact, it took the most time, with regard to this last dilemma, most of the time has passed before those who should be the first to understand this dilemma and who are active in Slovenia or are responsible for Slovenian foreign policy have understood this dilemma. We warn, however, that we will solve this process when it is completed, at the next meeting or at the next meeting, when we finally adopt these changes and constitutional law, only part of the dilemma that is ahead of us and which is linked to the referendum, in particular to the referendum on NATO. That part of this dilemma, which we will not resolve, refers to the timing of the referendum. Once again, March 23rd is not a suitable time for a referendum on Slovenia's entry into NATO. This was not our choice and we are not taking over, despite the fact that we will vote in favour of these constitutional changes, the responsibility for this choice. This choice was made on 30 January when it was decided, and this is a bad choice, I reiterate. However, we are prepared, given that this is in our opinion - and we have argued, at least as far as our parties are concerned, since 1989 - for two national projects, to participate in two things when it comes to this crucial time that we still have before the two referendums. First, let me just say that it's a shame, because because reason has won relatively late, we've lost a month. But this time that's still ahead of us has to be used in two ways. First of all, it is necessary to do everything that will allow for the actual implementation of the referendums to come to a serious confrontation of arguments; not a conflict of opinion, but that voters will actually be given arguments about or that the Slovenian authorities will be able to screen a public space in which the arguments for and against can be very clear and transparently presented on the table, and that the electorates and voters can decide on the basis of arguments. I think this is one of the key tasks that is now ahead of the legislature. Another thing to do and where we are willing to participate is one single action by those political forces in Slovenia that support Slovenia's membership in the European Union and NATO. We reiterate that years ago we established the coordination of parliamentary parties in which those parliamentary groups and parliamentary parties supported the whale two objectives. A positive campaign aimed at achieving a positive outcome at these two referendums is possible only within the framework of those which support these two objectives. It does not make sense to refer here to all parliamentary groups or to all parties because they do not all have the same objective; one is when it comes to the procedure, another is when it comes to achieving certain substantive objectives. That's how we appeal to sobriety again. We propose that the work of this coordination be renewed, that those who are for the positive results of the two referendums take part here and that this action, at least during this time ahead, is taking place in a unified manner. I think that this is one of the key conditions for a positive outcome of both referendums and that perhaps, if we have a happy hand, we will neutralize to some extent the unfavourable time in which both referendums will be held. Once again, this time has not been determined according to our will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Master Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues. I would like to present the position of the New Slovenia Group on Slovenia's involvement in Euro-Atlantic integration, of course, in connection with the changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. See, the Republic of Slovenia, or all those who have somehow created paths or routed paths with Slovenia, have either decided very early to join these two integrations. Isn't that interesting? For two years, three years after our independence, when we were once in some integrations, we decided clearly and quite unanimously that we want to be in a group of nations and countries that share democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights. I expect this thing to just grow and I hope it does. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that there has been such a solution that today we decide that there has been a coordinated proposal, despite the fact that a lot of steps have been taken, it can be overkilled. Now it doesn't make sense to bring a medal or any credit or anything she's ever done. We can say in the New Slovenia Group that those minimum starting points that we have set up are somehow achieved. We reject any suggestion given that we are not in favour of inclusion in these two integrations in the New Slovenia Group or that we have hindered procedures and communication. It wasn't that, clearly, and we got to the finish line. It has also turned out that the expert group of the most important experts in the legal profession and the constitutional profession has in some ways confirmed these ours. But anyway, it doesn't matter that much. It's important for people to make a credible decision. However, there is still something to be done now at this last moment in a binding referendum so that they do not go to the referendum twice and decide, and that invalid votes will be counted as logically treated. So the invalid votes are not against. We have decided or, we decide, that we will be in the community of the countries associated with the countries that are highly developed and are these fundamental human rights and the rule of law at a high level. What's the alternative? How many discussions were there? We'd like to take a different route. However, no one has proposed any other solution that would be better and would protect the country, its sovereignty, its given or its values, and also some kind of independence of Slovenia, its cultural, democratic and national development. There was no other alternative, serious no. It was speculated as to how much of the social product would be intended for one or the other. I'm sorry, you can't put national sovereignty or autonomy on whether it's 2.5 or 2.4% of the social or national gross product. We've had too much bitter experience in history. Look, as a generation that we're relatively young, we've had this bitter experience, our fathers, my parents are still alive, we've had two bitter experiences, at least two bitter experiences. Therefore, we absolutely do not land in Novi Slovenije in order to give in to such weighting. The profession suggested a combined way. I'm afraid that didn't happen. For an abstract way, it may be necessary and likely to take more steps, more convincing, perhaps harder solutions. Probably harder to solve. But that's how most people make up their minds. It's too bad we didn't agree on that way. People should know that. We'll see what the situation brings. However, when a majority of the legal profession leads to this and suggests it, then it is worth listening to. If you don't listen, take a little more time to think, but not as quickly as I said at the time - I couldn't make my own decision in this way when I could still take the time. The State, the President of the State or Government is also at a time when, I don't know, it has to decide in half an hour or an hour. But there wasn't a need for that kind of pressure. Let us hope that there will be no further temptations in terms of referendums to determine the marriage of these options. Somehow I hope that in the ruling coalition, this judgment will be a sober judgment, and that we will not engage, one or the other, in any projects and involve any other sticks in the procedure. I think that a reasonable enough step has been taken in recent days and now it is time to go to the campaign to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia why it is important to join these integrations. We'd like to work together, or we'd be in the lead group to run this campaign. Of course, with those who made it clear that this was their goal, not just their signature, but then they would do something a little different behind their backs. It is better for those not to cooperate, not with signature, and not to make statements in this sense, because they are committed to it. If they are committed, let them state in public that they are not committed. Yeah, it's a fair game to play now. Since this is a national project, we also want to participate in the work and, of course, also in covering costs. This is what I would like to see for myself that the government would devote to those because it is a national project, because the government can finance it - I hope that it will not come to anyone's mind to finance from the state budget against the project, because it was a decision of the government, the state, Parliament and so on. We want to participate, openly and clearly, in arguing that it is important to tell people that it is important to go to the referendum and decide for it. In Novi Slovenija we also committed through the Congress Charter that this is our key project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The United List of Social Democrats, or its predecessor, had already decided before 1990 to join the European Union. We have also decided very soon that, despite such a political position, it is right for citizens and citizens to decide on the final decision to join the European Union at the referendum. We have also taken the same decision to decide at the referendum in the United List of Social Democrats regarding the integration into NATO, and it is correct to say that the official positions of the United Nations have been different for a long time. At last spring's conference, the United List of Social Democrats adopted a unified position to defend Slovenia's entry into the North Atlantic Alliance or NATO, with votes cast on it and different opinions from individual members. The constitutional amendments to Articles 3, 8, 47 and 65 proposed by the Government, I believe that in July of last year, before last year, more than a year and a half, are based on the decision to enter Slovenia into the EU and NATO, or in the integration of supra-national nature or in military relations, as is now generally formulated in Article 3. The order of decision, as proposed in the constitution and through the referendum, is logical, according to our assessment. The decision that it is possible to enter and that it is possible to transfer part of the exercise of sovereign rights is necessary before Slovenia is included in these integrations. In order for the decision to be valid, the current solutions proposed in Articles 3 and 8 in particular assume that a referendum will also be held before the final decision on cooperation, at which citizens and citizens will decide on this decision. It is said that, first of all, the basis for the decision, then the referendum, which is defined for or against, but is assumed for these decisions, and later the implementation itself by ratifying the relevant international treaties. In doing so, it seems important to stress the following. With regard to the mode of regulation, the issues of accession to the European Union or NATO, or more precisely to supra-national organisations or defence associations, we have decided in the United List of Social Democrats to adopt the so-called abstract approach. In doing so, I would like to point out that our wish and our warning has been all the time useful if it were possible to address this issue as soon as possible, whether it is an abstract or a combined approach, that is to say, whether it is the definition of principled, possible approaches or a definition specifically for the European Union and for NATO, that it would be appropriate for the cousin to be uniform in this foreseeable time. Unfortunately, according to our information and the messages we received, expert opinions separated within a few months from unifying. It is true that, about a month ago, the expert group working with the Constitutional Commission asked the members of the Constitutional Commission to give them some time to assess which decision would be more appropriate, although we already had a very concrete basis for a solution and a solution to each other, as well as the working texts of the Constitutional Law or amendments to the Constitution which we would have adopted in one case or another. Therefore, it is probably right to say that we did not "send" anyone, that we did not rush, that there was much weighing, but that at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission, we generally assessed that delay was no longer possible and delay was no longer feasible, because a decision had to be taken in order to carry out the referendums already signed. Most have opted for the so-called abstract act, which, in my opinion, has at least two points that are rightly highlighted. When we talk about joining international organisations of a supra-national nature or entering into a defence relationship with other countries, we stress that those who respect the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights and fundamental freedoms. Second. When we talk about entering these links, we stress the need, or the possibility, in the same Article 3 of the Constitution, for any transfer of the work of sovereign rights to international organisations of a supra-national nature is also stipulated by the obligation to carry out a referendum. Yes, he does, but let's face it. Therefore, we have decided that the state of Slovenia will not, I would say, without consideration, generally, not without the participation of citizens and citizens, decide on such important steps. With regard to Article 8, it seems important to us that we in the Constitutional Commission have pointed out that, given that some in the future, perhaps even many of the decisions now taken by the National Assembly within the European Union will have an important role to play in this regard, the government will have to define, in a sufficiently general manner, what the role of the National Assembly will be - Parliament, representatives of the people - in the decision-making process in international organisations of a supra-national nature. We have stressed that the Constitution should already be at the principle level - given that this is already regulated in different countries in different ways in EU Member States - foresees the need and the possibility of parliamentary participation, because Parliament, however, is always a representative of all people, elected representative of all people, the government is simply not because it is a coalition and represents only part of, I would say, political parties and through them part of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. On this basis, it seems to us that these articles can be adopted and provide a good basis for later drafting of changes and supplementing the Constitution. On the basis of the decisions taken, we have always felt in the United List of Social Democrats that it would be right to take decisions on how a referendum would be held for both the EU and NATO. We are relatively early aware that, in view of the way in which the referendums are regulated in the current Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, and of the fact that, according to the applicable Law on Referendums, it is possible to decide when laws are submitted to the National Assembly - that is, only when a law on ratification of accession to the EU or inclusion in NATO is submitted - that it is right to say that it is possible to make relatively soon decisions in referendums only in the form of an advisory form or if a specific law is adopted that regulates the issue of a particular form of referendum. We have given this timely warning and, at the same time, we have expressed very early the desire and belief that a referendum is being held on EU and NATO accession, preferably of a legally binding nature. To hold a referendum on the entry into NATO before the Republic of Slovenia by letter expresses its wish to accede to the North Atlantic Treaty; to assess the possibility and usefulness of the implementation of the two referendums on the same day and to try to achieve as much consensus as possible on the form, content and date of the referendums as possible for all parliamentary parties in Slovenia. This was our starting point, and at these starting points we also built cooperation in finding solutions to these issues. For a while, because of different views and interests, we did not find a common language at these points. But time was moving, and we are convinced that it was right that decisions had been taken to ensure that the referendum could and should be carried out, even though consultative nature. This decision has triggered further activities, which have also led to an agreement reached at yesterday's meeting of the Constitutional Commission, allowing for the addition of the Constitution, Article 3, and by constitutional law to ensure that a referendum, which will also be legally binding, is carried out and that further changes are made in the constitutional regime and in the understanding of this referendum. We would like to highlight only the following. We are still convinced that, with regard to the selection of the date of the referendum, we were not only dependent on ourselves, we were also dependent on when the procedures in NATO Member States would begin to ratify accession treaties. Since the start of these procedures, it is also necessary to have a clear decision in Slovenia. Because, according to our information, this procedure begins on March 26th, we felt that March 23rd was the date that could be enough. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, for the reasons I have said, we will support the proposed amendments, we will vote in favour of the initiation of the procedure and the adoption of the positions proposed by the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Tone Anderlič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u20	Your Honor! It had to happen what could also happen in a way that would be less burdensome for the public, less burdensome for Members and Members, professional services in the National Assembly and, of course, an expert group that was involved in the work of the Constitutional Commission in one way or another. Until this decision to amend the so-called package of European Articles 3, 8 and 47 to 68, the facts are in fact known and could have been already in the year-and-a-half and more since the proposal was in the procedure, this would have been determined if it had not been in one way or another a type of opposition, an obstacle, a seduction into a situation of crisis and a search for a "God" consensus of national unity. Everyone was involved in this. And that in the end we would really come into the time crisis that the same ones who brought us into it would appeal to us and report that we were in time trouble and that we were in a hurry and that the matter was not studied. But such an attitude and such misdirection is everyday and of course nothing new, but it is good that we have come to this. The Constitutional Commission has adopted an abstract approach to amending Article 3, which is nothing new, which is nothing that would have happened at the last moment, but is a proposal from the government, which it has already submitted in July 2001. During this time, legal experts have developed, among other things, other proposals. But I must say that as diverse opinions from the legal profession as they were about to change these articles of the Constitution, I have not met for a long time. So the very ones who convinced us on Thursday that the only path was the right one, they put us in a position yesterday: czech, that position that was literally theirs, has to be changed and we changed it yesterday. But that too should be taken for hire if it is in the interest of making an agreement. Of course, there is nothing wrong, on the contrary, if, now that we have come to this stage before the referendum, which will, of course, be held on 23 March, there are also some issues that we have all known for a long time that will soon need to be addressed. The Constitutional Court has long warned that the so-called invalid ballots should be regulated so as not to be listed anywhere. We would have arranged this one way or another. Now we've arranged it here. As far as the referendum is concerned, there is no dilemma. Everywhere in Europe, where they hold referendums and even in our country, it is perfectly clear. The referendum one way or another, especially if it has a very simple question: whether you are "yes" or "against" is, of course, binding. But as I said, after all these coordinations, we have come to the conclusion that this minimum of constitutional changes is clearly possible at the moment. It would be better if the National Assembly had a greater ambition, not only to deal with a government proposal after a year and a half, but also with other proposals that go hand in hand with the procedure. And it is unfortunate that the Constitutional Commission has proposed to the National Assembly today only for the consideration and follow-up of the procedure and in agreement with the continuation of the procedure only these four articles, although it has already adopted a position to amend the constitutions in one article - the so-called Lavrince proposal. I, of course, believe that there have been quite a few such and different exercises here that can be jumped back, even though the Constitutional Commission has made very clear rules under the Rules of Procedure. But, as I said, this is a priority, these are now things that need to be supported and we will support them in order to allow the latter, who doubts that the referendum would not be binding, both for NATO and for the EU, to settle this through this proposed constitutional amendment and that the issue of invalid votes will also be settled and that the subsequent referendum on these issues will be resolved. The talk about the fact that that meeting in January, when we called for a referendum, was a mistake to recognise the error now and so on, is simply what does not fall into the stage when the compromise was reached when the agreement was reached. For the government has indisputably said that it is necessary - and here the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said in this Chamber - to determine, by 26 March, what is the will of the people and whether the Slovenians and the Slovenes are in favour of accession to the Washington Treaty or not. Until then, no other solution could be found as a consultative referendum. Of course, you all know that for a legislative referendum it is necessary to have some other basis, it is necessary to have a law, it is necessary to have behaviour, especially about what this referendum is supposed to be about. After all, in the referendum law, of course, before in the constitution, this is very clear. And there was no other way to do that. As is known, there is not yet any other position or assurance that Slovenia could still be a candidate for accession to the Treaty, to enter NATO if there was no such referendum. Now that everyone here is explaining their opinions, who is to talk to who, who has received a dispatch, who has been with whom at lunch, simply cannot count us because it is only what the Prime Minister is, what the Foreign Minister and the Defence Minister, who have also negotiated in the official talks, who have agreed at the official meetings, and, of course, also what is most important - to ensure that by then the referendum will, that it will also remain in force and that the ratification procedure will begin after the signing of the protocol. The wrong thing about all of this is that today it's being potentiated, how it was a mistake and so on. If we indisputably said at that time: for the first time, that the referendums are being called for us to find out this will, and for the second time that we will ensure these three conditions, which are now being discussed and will now be regulated in the constitution and law for the implementation of the Constitution, then the teachers must be undeniably rejected. Once again, I would like to say why an abstract approach. Because a group of experts who were tasked within the framework of the Constitutional Commission with preparing a working proposal for a text of a constitutional law that would address this issue in an abstract manner prepared this. And we fully, fully referred - those who supported it - to the experts who proposed it. Of course, for two reasons, this approach is certainly appropriate, since, for the first time, it has been studied by all experts, including those who today advocate an abstract approach and have worked in the government's drafting group, because the government has not prepared it itself, but has also engaged constitutional law experts to prepare it; therefore, this extensive study has been carried out because the public presentation of the opinions and everything that has been done in the debates under the Constitutional Commission has been carried out, this has been confirmed and, finally, this is the most appropriate approach, because it is also not clear at this point in time how this supra-national organisation will be conducted. After all, this constitution is being formed and some meetings are being held, and so on and only with developments will things be able to be regulated differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Pohorec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. There are still a number of articles in the series of pending constitutional changes, but at this point, let us consider that we want others to find their place on the Constitutional Commission and then here, in the National Assembly. Now let us focus on the four articles that are before us, for which we have somehow found consensus, or at least most, even here and there by voting. Now they're here before us to finally start changing them. I am pleased that we have come to this and to resolve at least those issues that are not, I would say, only our internal issues, through which we are also viewed from the outside, on which we are asked in Europe and the world, whether we will be able to resolve them, overcome them, do what we have to do, so that we can decide on important issues. And this is this third article, which we have now managed to somehow lead to a form that is acceptable, and the 8th and the remaining two articles, which are less, I would say, are so important for just joining NATO and the European Union. When we called these two referendums, we were also aware that unfortunately at this time we could not make any other decisions than the consultation referendum, although we wanted to make only once decisions on these issues, not eventually, even after approving a referendum. Now luckily, we have found this form, and I hope it's the one that's in place. I regret that in this project, which is aimed at the most for the most future, they do not participate in such a form as to cooperate constructively and help create their future, but act in a way conservatively, or in an inhibitory way, or even against. That they do not want to plant a tree to collect fruit from it themselves and leave it to us who have survived a period when this Europe was still quite different. With the launch of this campaign soon, the public debate on content, strengths, weaknesses, arguments for integration into the European Union and to join NATO, we must also assign our own tasks to inform people, Slovenians, citizens of Slovenia as many arguments as possible. It is not just the advantages, but also the weaknesses, but they dominate what most of these parties and the political leaders of the parliamentary groups lead us to support these constitutional changes so that they can carry out referendums that are binding so that they can join the European Union and NATO. I myself have assigned certain tasks and will also try to achieve them at the best of my will and power to make the results positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members. I would like to touch upon the proposal to amend and supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in the four articles mentioned above, Article 3, Article 8, Article 47 and Article 68, which, in particular, refer to the new definition of the role in the international integration of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, it is, and in my opinion, the state is the highest form of sovereignty of the individual nation. Therefore, it is probably very difficult to define in the Constitution that there can be even higher forms such as the form of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, it would also address issues that are not addressed in the second sentence of the Opinion, which is whether it is possible to grant the State Assembly the role of an arbitrator to decide in which delegation of powers a referendum or in which transfer of sovereign rights to the work of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia may be decided by a national assembly or in which part it is necessary to confirm this at the referendum. According to my assessment, the acquisition of the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Slovenia is probably the highest achievement of the Slovenian nation, which it has gathered on the plebiscite, as well as in the self-serving war for Slovenia, so it would be reasonable to think that even in the future national assembly in the constitution, it would not be possible to obtain the role of an arbitrator. It is suggested that it will determine whether the National Assembly may decide on certain parts of the transfer of sovereign rights itself to be awarded by the Republic of Slovenia in cooperation with international organisations, or whether citizens decide to do so. Sovereignty is therefore the highest form, and it is only reasonable that citizens and citizens decide on any allocation or reduction of this right at the referendum. In this context, it would therefore be reasonable to follow this objective in the final drafting of the text. Another important issue that comes to my attention is the role of the National Assembly and the definition of the role of the National Assembly in taking decisions in cooperation with international organisations. This is a matter that is essentially under-appreciated at the moment. We know that in practice this is primarily the role of governments or of the executive branch of government. In my opinion, it would make sense that this role should also be defined more clearly in the Constitution, the role of the National Assembly, in particular in this sense - because both the Republic of Slovenia is a country where, in fact, it is very important and citizens are much more closely monitored by individual decisions, especially those important decisions on how to influence as a national assembly the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here I would ask the question whether it makes sense to write the role of supra-national nature to international organisations. We know that lawyers are also very divided in this regard and that they also note that the European Union does not meet all the criteria defined for international organisations of a supra-national nature. It is therefore also relevant in this respect that the proposal for a Constitution currently contains a more general approach. I would also touch Article 68 of the Constitution and, of course, amend it. This is the second time in my opinion that Slovenian diplomacy has broken with too fast, not too thoughtful promises. I am convinced that Article 68, if there were no quick decisions, we would not have to change at that time. Indeed, we also know that the final solutions in the negotiations for the entry into the European Union have been such that they allow for an even longer transitional period than was provided for by the amendment of the original Article 68 of our Constitution. And now perhaps even to the essence of the most solid walnut present in changing the constitution, or so-called referendum mania, which has taken over our country in connection with the accession of the European Union and the NATO Union. Already in the debate on the call for both referendums, I thought that if this was written down or if it was not recorded in the constitution, the form of these two decisions was so important that, in my opinion, I would not have hoped to change any policy - not the national assembly or the government - it is said to change people's will, but no matter what it is called. I welcome the fact that this decision has been made that the matter is formally more clearly defined, so that the possibility of making decisions by citizens and citizens at the referendum is also eliminated. However, I believe that the decision at these two referendums is so important for our country that, in no case, whether in the constitution, laws or wherever it is written, no policy would allow it to change people's will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The representative of the United List is next in line - no one wants to. Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, not at all. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If a man looked like this, he would simply say, "What we agreed on on the Constitutional Commission could be accepted without words." Yet there are too many criticisms and statements, if anything is accepted, we go to Europe, we go to NATO. If we go to Europe, of course we will be citizens of the European Union, but first we will be citizens of Slovenia. And we're probably never gonna let that go out of our constitution. Every time I get that question, I always say that and I'll keep talking while I'm in this role. European Union legal integrity - the Constitution of the European Union is being prepared. In the European Union, we have our representatives, representatives of the government, opposition and positions in many working bodies, and when it is not clear to anyone, we should ask these people. There's no need to talk about things that don't belong here in this room, and it's just stuffing. When it comes to the issue of Slovenians and Slovenia, I also said this many times: I come from the western edge of Slovenian national space. When we went years ago, in our previous mandate to visit the Slovenians in the Channel Valley, or in the National Assembly, who wrote a travel order, he did not know what the Channel Valley was or what the Canal was. And too often, when I hear about the care of the Slovenians, I ask myself: where are you when the meetings of the Slovenians are in the Channel Valley, Rezija, Venice, Goriška, Tržaška, Kras? Most of the people you talk to here, and I never see them. When I see you, I'll respect you a little more when you talk about the Slovenians. Second of all, I'm a little bit pricked when I think about it. I said I came from the western edge of the Slovenian state, the Slovenian national space. From 1913 to 1991, Kobarid near Soča had ten countries. Every country that came here had its own army, and in every army, and because of every army, someone in these places fell. World War I and World War II ended with the help of our allies, where we now go and say that we are going to NATO. Without the American and English armies that occupied Italy, World War II would not have ended and without their help the first world war would not have ended so quickly. Let's take a look at this. When we spoke here years ago, in this hall, everyone applauded enthusiastically that the attack by American troops on Yugoslavia, on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, had begun, we were all in favour, and today many were hiding and said that he was not most impressed to be "for". I would like to say one more thing about joining the European Union. Is entry into the European Union as naively represented by people - we will cross borders, there will be no more customs and we will have the euro together. If only this is the European Union, then this is very little. We said there would be free movement of people, goods and services. Let's just ask ourselves here if we're ready for this. And, now that we're changing the constitution, I've always thought about it only: will we, as Slovenians, as economists, as people who have something, be able to keep it - in addition to the Slovenian name of Slovenia? It's not just the euro! Today, too, we have the opportunity to go to another country to work, or to buy, or to organize ourselves to do what we have been unable to do for decades. Another time. I think that in Europe I live and free movement means something other than shopping at the "growling" in Stara Gorica. The second thing to say is: what they think about us in Europe. Too often there are various polls showing Slovenians in a very bad light. Are we doing enough, or are we positive enough, to represent national interests rather than our narrow, selfish, partying or personal ones? For here in this Chamber we speak for the good of all the people in the country, for the good of the Slovenes, these Slovenian nations, and I think we owe it only to her to do good, nothing bad. So it's no wonder if I support the constitutional changes proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. Today we have taken the first step towards changing the constitution of our country, which is necessary for our journey to the European Union and also to NATO. This journey was relatively long and sometimes quite difficult, as I would say, painful, without a variety of safe directions. The government has sent to the National Assembly 19 - if I recall correctly - proposals for changes to our constitution, and some of these proposals have also come from citizens and citizens. Countries with a long tradition, a democratic tradition, are embarking on changes in the Constitution with great prudence and a demonstration of necessity, and never in haste or political needs of one government or another. Let me put this in. Personally, I am strongly opposed to all other proposals for amendments to our Constitution and also to those proposed by the Government, in addition to those we are considering today, and perhaps to Article 90. The motivation for all these other changes to our Constitution is of a political nature and I must say that we must save you with political means. Political inexperience, inadequacy or party disagreement cannot be resolved by changing the constitution, this is done by an undemocratic regime. This is particularly true in the case of constitutions that are young and not yet sufficiently well established in the heads of citizens and politicians and are not sufficiently tested. The question that has not been sufficiently shaken in our debates is whether we really need to change our constitution to join Europe and NATO now. Firstly, the European Union is in a large period of change and it is not possible to predict what it will look like in a good year or a few years. Secondly, we will not enter the European Union by May next year, and thirdly, we do not yet have any definitive legally binding agreement with either of these two international organisations. Notwithstanding these comments and those I still have, I will strongly support the proposed amendments to the Constitution in the four articles. There are some other comments on the developments in our Constitutional Commission and I would add some of my own thoughts. In fact, one is entering the European Union, and the other is, of course, our behaviour and preparations for this entry. I wonder what it is and what else our government intends to do to make this entry possible and to prepare us well for these changes. We have quite a lot of technical information and so on, but we haven't talked about the language or our culture and so on. For example, the fact that there was nothing done to prepare us to somehow organize ourselves with our foreigners is devastating to me. We were many years old, but nothing was done in that sense. I would also have to comment on the use of the supra-national organisation phrase in one of the articles. As far as I know, this concept is not defined anywhere in international law and has not been answered to the question I have asked our advisers. This concept, as far as I know, has only been used once in the European Union before, right at the beginning, and then never again. Make sure we can have another problem because the supra-national organisation is not defined anywhere. I also wonder about the wisdom of those who proposed a consultation referendum, and then the commitment of the National Assembly to honour the outcome of the referendum by the State Assembly and the government. I believe that this approach would be a kind of a unique approach to the history of constitutional law in the world. It would be very interesting to know if someone has tried something like this before, but if it's like today, it's not serious. After an extremely long time, we have reached out to the proposals of the four articles of the Constitution. This is really quite a modest fruit of our work on the Constitutional Commission. I listened here several times, as well as on the Constitutional Commission, regretting that it was so that we did not hurry, that we did not do any better. It all sounds like the entire Constitutional Commission was responsible for it. However, we may recall that the opposition had no canvas and scissors in its hands, but a government coalition. So it would be good if we all thought together about how we could do this better. With regard to the section she proposed to us - and these were, if I recall correctly, about 28 - I was often critical and still at some points I am. This is said in a point or situation where there is a conflict of interest - some members alone - I was also critical of the number of members in this advisory group. For more people, especially lawyers, are involved sooner or later. However, I must say that despite these problems at the end or when it was really urgent, they came along with acceptable proposals that were acceptable to all of us. Finally, I regret that we have received the opinions of the Council of State only today. For in their comments there are many good and beneficial ideas. Some of these, however, convince me that, with the exception of these four articles and perhaps one or two other articles - for example, the presidency and the 90th - it is not the time to change the constitution in such a mass manner as has been proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Malover, would you like a word? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Master Petty Officer? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much. It seems that we will have no difficulty today to accept the formal things that take us into European integration. I support this in every way, because I also see the benefit of being smart. So, I support European integration in such a way that we will have Europe on Slovenian soil or that we will not - one predict - European footmen. Why, for example, do we know in concrete terms about the European Union, even among voters there seems to be some concern for the European Union; I think that there is no need for concern, because if Slovenia is threatened by someone, then it will be easier to defend itself if it is in a system. And it'll also be far cheaper to be in the system than if we just had to buy an equal weapon and then defend ourselves with it. It's just that even if someone's going to attack and we're in the system, they're going to behave differently, they're going to think differently, and they're going to say it's not worth it. So I think all these debates that we have today for four hours that are almost, I'd say, unnecessary. So, I'm for integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I recall deciding on a resolution on national security almost ten years ago, when for the first time there was a clear expectation based on the resolution itself and the words spoken from the highest places, that the people would actually decide that it would not only be asked what they thought or consulted but would decide. It may, however, decide only if its vote in the referendum is binding. Well, I've studied history, but I'm not so happy about the past that I'm so careful about what's been going on until yesterday or today, as some colleagues have done. I think that, with yesterday's decisions on the Constitutional Commission, we are returning to that track which means deciding the national assembly in accordance with our two fundamentals, I could say, the national political objectives; this is the approach to the European Union and to NATO. And since that is the case, I see a situation in which we can make progress or developments based on yesterday's decisions. And I don't think it's that important right now, who, how and who the profession supported. It's clear who ever proposed something and what the expert said about it. I think it is more important than clearing up on this issue, how we will also carry out the matter in the next stages and that we will also achieve both objectives. I think there is still a lot of work to be done in this area, and I think we should be concerned, together with the expert group, that there will be full clarity as soon as possible in our electorate and electorate, what will be the final conditions for the implementation or legal framework for the implementation of the referendum, where we will decide on the essential issues. So, I am pleased that we are now having a unified opinion on commitment, on the fact that there will be only one referendum, and also on how to find results. It is said that it will be clear what "yes" means or what an invalid voice means. So, on this basis, I think we can go forward with credibility, and I would not want a development that would get us out of this track again in some unwelcome direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok - you don't want, thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Ana Tisovic - neither. Mrs. Zupan, not at all. Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members, I invite you to the Chamber because we have concluded the debate and we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a Constitutional Commission decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30.7.2001 and 21.11.2002. [[EPA 699-III]] to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." Before voting, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if the two-thirds majority of Members present vote for it. That is why you, honourable Members, because the debate is actually over faster than was foreseen by the list of Members and Members who have agreed to the debate to come to the Chamber because we will decide on the said decision and, of course, if it is adopted, continue the debate on the draft constitutional law and the views of the Constitutional Commission on that draft law proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. If you allow, I would read once again the proposal for a decision; namely, we will vote on the proposal for a decision by the Constitutional Commission, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30.7.2001 and 21.11.2002. [[EPA 699-III]] for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia," at the same time, of course, by reiterating that the decision will be adopted if the two-thirds majority of the Members present vote for it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. I'm asking representatives of the parliamentary groups, is there any objection to not going to the vote? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. So we're voting. We're voting. 74 present, 69 votes against 5. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with the necessary two-thirds majority. Mr. Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u34	Madam Vice President, my voting device is down. Can you repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u35	I'm asking the technical services to check Mr. Kacin's voting device. Since the voting apparatus is now in place, the Member of Parliament will be able to vote. The voting apparatus is now in operation and we will therefore re-decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting! There are 76 of us present. 71 votes against 5. [[71 members voted in favour.]] [[Five members voted against.]] I note that the proposed decision to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 3, 8, 47 and 68 of the Constitution is adopted with the necessary two-thirds majority. We are moving on to a debate on the draft constitutional law and on the views of the Constitutional Commission on that draft law which it has proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. I ask the representative of the government if he wishes to further explain the draft constitutional law? He doesn't want to. The draft constitutional law was treated by the Constitutional Commission as a parent working body and provided views for admission to the National Assembly. Does the chairman of the commission want a word? He doesn't want to. We will now hear presentations from the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u36	Dear President, Your Honor. First, the word to the first part, which we have just adopted, is the word on the beginning of the constitutional change process. We may not even be aware that this is a very important event, to begin a very important process. This date will certainly be recorded in history, even though it is only the beginning. In doing so, let me express my personal joy, first of all the joy that we have been able to find so much wisdom on the Constitutional Commission, that we have separated the European issue from all others, perhaps more problematic and with a greater customer connotation of the problems highlighted. Second, let me express my joy at [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u37	Mr. Cuckoo, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for peace in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u38	That the government coalition could also find a way to find a slightly greater consensus than the government coalition itself, because it is the most basic document in the constitution, it is a collective, constitutional, national act for which I wish that even in the process of amending it is accepted by such respect by such a plebiscite majority as it was 11 or 12 years ago. Now, specifically, on the issue of positions or constitutional law and positions proposed by the Constitutional Commission. Of course, we cannot say much about the draft constitutional law because the positions are designed and designed so radically that the draft constitutional law itself will have to be thoroughly overturned, and we expect this to be done by the expert group. However, it is necessary to say that the whole process of consideration and also of acceptance of views has deviated from this desire and is intended to be adopted with the greatest possible consensus of the position to be given as instructions to the expert group. The first problem we want to draw attention to is an abstract approach. You know that an abstract approach means defining integration into any international organisation that is less or more important than an international court or, I think, maybe a future international organisation for environmental protection of the Adriatic, which will include Albania, Italy, Croatia, Montenegro and Slovenia. Of course, these international organisations will probably require a transfer of some kind of sovereign right, perhaps as regards the ecological treatment of their own sea or the like, but this cannot be compared with the European Union or with integration into the European Union. You know that we have just received a proposal for a treaty with the European Union, which includes or covers over 4,000 pages. And there's a lot of things in here that are very deeply interfering with our sovereignty. The expert group is also aware of this, so, as has been said, it has prepared two approaches, a general one, that is abstract and combined. She prepared two approaches because that's what we asked her to do. Otherwise, most of these section members have been defined as a combined approach. That's what you have to say. In an abstract approach, it is not possible to define a relationship with an international organisation, such as a Roman court, or, as I said, an ecological link for the rehabilitation of the Adriatic or I do not know what. It is impossible to resolve relations with the European Union in the same way, which, of course, was pointed out by the experts present at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission at that time. However, despite the opposition's opposition, the majority on the Constitutional Commission adopted an abstract approach as a somehow binding principle in the further preparation of European articles. I must say that this government majority then also tried an abstract approach also to correct a little bit, I would say, the error was slightly mitigated by the fact that it was then accepted that, however, it should be determined how to confirm such an approach with a referendum, or with an obligatory or optional approach. Whether the national assembly should be obliged to call for such a referendum or to give it to the national assembly for its own assessment. Gentlemen, and experts have already warned us here that this is impossible with one sentence for all possible variants, which either foresees or does not provide for an abstract approach, to be determined. The accession to the Roman Court certainly does not require a referendum and it is necessary to join the European Union. The next dilemma, which later in the subsequent articles on accession to the European Union, sought or wished to correct that mistake of an abstract approach, is the provision or instruction under Article 3 to define in Article 8 the role of the National Assembly in the decision-making process in international organisations of a supra-national nature. Again, the role of the National Assembly in handling or transferring work of rights to a Roman court is something completely different, something much easier than in the case of the transfer of rights, which will happen continuously and repeat and deepen in the case of the European Union. And again, the experts said they didn't know how to do it. Mr. Krivic said, "You ask us to do, unite what is incompatible." I don't know if this problem can be solved. Again, I don't know why the majority of governments insisted on that senseless starting point of an abstract approach. I don't know, maybe there's a desire in there that we then have open hands for any connections, maybe Balkan countries or maybe China, Japan, Korea, I don't know, but we certainly don't find any argument as to why this persistence was so categorical. First of all, why did the sociodemocrats advocate a combined approach? First of all, because experience teaches us that a combined approach is definitely one that fits the situation. You know that the European countries, the 15 that have long been in the European Union, have had an abstract, generally defined approach in their constitutions. In 1992, according to Mastrict, almost all of these countries are in line, or all of those that have had a generally defined approach, either have changed it or have made it specific, because they have written in the Constitution exactly the European Union and not any overriding organisations, international organisations, or have complemented their general approach like Germany, in terms of a combined approach, where general provisions have left it open to other possible future international organisations, but have specifically defined things for the European Union. In the eleven years since Germany, or ten years since Germany adopted such a combined approach - we are talking about Germany, because our constitution has already been very modelled on the German model ten, twelve years ago, there has been no problem in Germany in these ten years, no problem, and that is a diction that corresponds to the problems. Another problem, as I have said, which we are trying to define in Article 8, is the role of the National Assembly in the decision-making process. You are well aware that the adoption of acts in the European Union is taking place in a different way, in a way, in which, of course, the government is mainly involved and where the government then independently formulates initiatives and is involved in the adoption of these acts in the European Union, binding acts, including binding acts for us. We wonder what will happen to these acts, which are, by definition, the area of decision-making of the National Assembly. They will be accepted with the participation of the government and government institutions in the European Union, and our national assembly will only ratify them or not, or in any way will not be involved in the process of adopting these acts and will have no guaranteed co-decision or any quality control over the government procedure and government proposals for these European acts. Of course, how to do this now, as we proposed in Article 8, as I said, constitutional experts do not know. For no law can resolve the dilemma, the questions of the relations between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, unless this is defined in the Constitution. However, the Constitution cannot be defined if the European Union is not specifically defined as the organisation to which we approach. For we will not be applying all these chiractors to any international organization or to any approach to any international organization, this would be a terrible complication and a very risky act. Germany, for example, stated in its 23rd article "grundgesetza" that the government must inform both homes accurately and in the shortest time, and this is a future bunker, and allow them to give their opinion before this government takes part in the formation of European laws. And in this process, the government must take into account the opinion of the Bundestag and the Bundesrat in the negotiations. This they can define because they have a combined approach or, in the case of the European Union, have a concrete approach and have said in the constitution where they are joining. I don't know why they wouldn't do that to me. Why not protect the importance of the National Assembly and maintain the supervision of the State Assembly over the government? I don't know. Otherwise, you know, in 1947 we adopted the Constitution of the People's Republic of Slovenia, which stated that the Slovenian people had merged with the peoples of Yugoslavia and their republics, Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro. At that time, we could have taken a concrete approach, and it was very good. And in 1991 we adopted a fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, where we said, the Republic of Slovenia assumes all rights and duties that have been transferred through the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and through the Constitution of the SFRJ to the authorities of the SFRJ. We said then, we know where we're going in, who we're associating with, and then we knew, and we made it clear, we're going out. And I think that such a clean relationship, a clear relationship, should also have with the European Union. Unfortunately, as I said, we've set it differently or you've set it off with an abstract approach. I do not know whether the expert group which will draw up a constitutional proposal on the basis of these views will find some way forward, some starting point, to incorporate these essential elements of a specific or combined approach into these articles, even though we have said an abstract approach. Whether this will succeed, I think it will succeed if the will of the Constitutional Commission is to close not one eye and accept what the profession proposes. I say that this, of course, even if an abstract approach is adopted, the world will not collapse, Slovenia will not collapse. But why choose a very important question between the two proposals for a much worse one, one that is already giving us a headache when we don't know what to do with the National Assembly, what to do with the referendum, we don't know what to do with the Constitutional Court. We don't know. The Constitutional Court is the German constitution, the "grundgesetz", the German constitution has saved, it has a wonderful solution, but only because it has the opportunity to resolve it because it has a combined approach. In particular, our experts have proposed the discharge of the Constitutional Court, but only with the possibility of a combined approach. The problem of the Constitutional Court will be whether our Constitutional Court will be able to judge European laws or not. Whether we can have an institute or we will have the right to speak in exceptional cases, we do not accept this act because it is contrary to our constitution. Based on the current starting point and current design, this will not be possible. That won't be possible. That's what the expert group said. However, in the combined approach where the expert group proposed, I quote, it would be possible to propose that the exercise of the work of sovereign rights be transferred to the European Union, based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law and the social state, and on the principle of subsidiarity. This is said to be a transfer of the exercise of these rights to the European Union, which guarantees the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is essentially comparable to the protection of these rights after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the protection of the rights enshrined in the European Union, in the acts of the European Union, must be substantially comparable in the laws of the European Union to the protection of these rights under our Constitution. Thus they proposed exactly according to the example of the German Constitution. But this is what they have proposed and we have not accepted it, because we have accepted the starting point for such an opportunity, we have adopted an abstract approach. I would appeal here on behalf of the Social Democrats once again, gentlemen, the Constitution is an extremely important matter, let us allow the expert group that has warned us and who has literally begged that we let them free hands to resolve these dilemmas that I have listed here, of course, dilemmas that are far deeper than I can explain as a non-expert. Allow them to prepare this, even if we may require too much of an abstract approach at these points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Peterle will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You are all aware that New Slovenia has always represented a very conservative view of changing the Constitution and has advocated that we do what is really important to us in relation to or essential to joining the European Union. That is why it is very difficult for us to understand such insistence in an abstract way, because the reason for changing the Constitution is very concrete, we do not choose to change because of any possibility of joining an international organisation, but precisely because of an organisation called the European Union. Therefore, I think that, of course, a much more concrete or combined approach, including to avoid such a significant decision, could be given to dangerous interpretations of various purposes or of the different possibilities for later development, so that an abstract article can also be applied to the appropriate political image of Slovenia, even to a very different international organisation, such as the European Union. That is why our Parliamentary Group believes that there is something else to think about in this direction, very professionally and politically deepen and come up with the formulations that now and later will not give us a headache and that people will also be fully aware of what this is all about. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, probably in this house, at least most are known that, as of the date of accession to the European Union, the function of this Parliament will not change, but it will narrow down to motherhood, because some areas will be moved to a higher or common level and in this case the government will start acting as its own representatives in a legislative role in various forms of the world and I think it would be right to follow those models of constitutional solutions that already require the Government's mandate in its legislative work by Parliament for those areas of legislative decision-making. I think that this would be very convenient, very clear, and also very useful, so that these matters would not only be governed by rules of procedure. I suggest that we think together in this direction and prepare a suitable solution. I think it's a decision like this, and I suppose it's a one-time decision to make it quick. I have also read Mr Kristano's record, with which we have sometimes had very different opinions, let's say a visual criterion in the composition of the Constitutional Court, but here - so I must say to Mr Anderlich that I have absolutely no experience in the footsteps of the members of the Convention that I have here by jumping into words, I am sorry to say this. With attention to the speaker, it is quite different when it comes to the feet than it is when it is in its early 45 ’ s. And I think it's such a thing to make you listen to each other, I'm sorry, Tone. This is about things that I hope we will only do once, and it is only right that we do them in such a way that they will keep us from changing the Constitution again briefly, this is indeed a concrete and urgent matter. That's all I can see is that I'm getting on my nerves anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by mag. Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Very briefly, the position of the Slovenian People's Party, the parliamentary group, towards constitutional law. So, at yesterday's meeting of the Constitutional Commission, we adopted the position that in the implementation part of the constitutional law, we have adopted a special arrangement here for the referendum already announced. In our Group of Members, we have supported the view from the outset that such an important issue for citizens and a country such as the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO and the European Union should be decided at the referendum, because it is a decision that concerns all of us. In line with what has been said in the Group of Members of the People's Party, we support the fact that this referendum is binding. Furthermore, we support the proposal that the referendum on the accession of the Union and NATO should confirm the issue if it is voted on by the majority of the voters and voters who voted in force, so as not to take into account invalid votes. We support the opinion of those members of the section who believe that this proposal allows for a more realistic reflection of the real will of the electorate, to which we have no doubt the difficulty in carrying out the referendum. The referendum proposal will therefore be adopted if it is voted on by the majority of voters who will vote in force. We also agree that in such a case a referendum on the law on ratification of an international treaty that receives the support of citizens is not allowed. However, as far as the latter is concerned, it is likely that the relationship between Articles 3 and 90 of the Constitution will have to be clarified in the expert group in order to avoid a different interpretation. In fact, article 90, following the amendments that we are going to vote on, will still be valid and I hope that we will not again be in trouble and will sit for hours and hours and listen to experts from one side and the other who will again give us no possible solution. So we have to be aware of that. As for the time of the referendum, which was mentioned earlier, I do not think we would be talking about when the time is right. We, in particular in this context of the NATO referendum, because for the EU it is not so problematic - look, the wars were, the conflicts have always been, they have always been, but at this time of the Iraqi crisis we should be more stressing the very importance of NATO, the very importance of the North Atlantic Assembly. And if, at that time, this conflict or the resolution of this crisis occurs before the referendum, that is probably not what no one wants. But that's what we're going to have to tell the voters and the voters clearly, that's how things have been resolved in history, and they're probably going to be in the future. And regardless, we just have to decide whether we're going to join the North Atlantic link or not. There is no dilemma in this matter in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. You don't want to? Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jožef Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u44	Thank you very much. See, with these views we have from points 1 to 5, we are practically summarizing the idea of a government to change the constitution in that part that is necessary for association, in particular the European Union or the European Union, as who wants to hear. And, of course, I welcome this opportunity for all to support, in fact, these types of urgent or necessary changes that would have been necessary even if these two referendums had not been called for on 23 March. It seems important to me that a decision has been taken on the so-called abstract approach and by voting on these views, of course, I understand that the overcoming of the other two options, which have emerged through discussions in the Constitutional Commission and through discussions in the Group of Experts, will be overturned. I believe that all these discussions, both experts and the Constitutional Group, were important. But I find it difficult to share the opinion of those who say that it was ultimately a matter of predominance over a professional decision. At some point, the Constitutional Commission asked the expert group to prepare three possible solutions for the necessary amendment to Article 3. What has not been said today is that in the end the expert group has offered only two possible solutions, and if I speculated in this way, it has already given up this pure concrete approach. She also came in with a combination, with a combined option. Both options were taken by the Constitutional Commission as two options, which are a solution to the necessary changes. The Constitutional Commission, in the way it decided to be abstract and thus, of course, did not go into some voting profession, but rather to choose one of the two models. I also reject this thesis that the expert commission voted on something and that a model enjoyed more support than others in the professional circles. This may not even matter to this discussion, but it is only reasonable to say that professional matters are not resolved as anyone in this Chamber might wish by voting. I have already said that the views fully sum up government proposals and bring three important innovations that seem to me all in a row meaningful and are the fruit of the debates in the Constitutional Commission. The first novelty of the government proposal's visa is this reflection on the referendums, which are linked to each concrete link between Slovenia and Slovenia. This thought was first accepted as binding, and now the trifle is more open, in my opinion, in the most meaningful way, to address the fears of those who think that it is only with some constellation of forces in Parliament that it is possible to enter into any connection. In order to avoid misunderstandings, the LDS Group has always expressed the view that it is necessary to have a referendum on this type of link. From this, I will say, we have waived absolute requirements at a time when it became questionable what could all fall under these types of transfers of the performance of the work of sovereignty. Another such important novelty, which we also jointly support, is a novelty, which says it is necessary to redefine the position of the national assembly in the decision-making process in international organisations. The third important novelty is a novelty which does not relate to these necessary changes to the Constitution, but relates to the amendments to Article 90 which regulate the referendum and the rules of the referendum. Here, I will say, this political moment, which was also important for this great consensus, has caused two things: on the one hand, it has acquired everything for the change of the constitution, and on the other hand, for these two individual cases, it has completely redefined some of the rules related to the referendum. In our Group of Members, we welcome this, so much so that the referendums are binding, so much so that only valid votes are counted, and they also insist that certain things are not decided on in different types of referendums. What we expect is that this standard, which arises here, applies to all referendums, because it would not make sense for this referendum to be serious, and others who have been used in different ways by different groups could cause confusion between citizens and citizens. From this point of view, I hope that everyone will also agree to the direction of amendments to Article 90 of the Constitution. But we've done something our own way, and we've done something pretty embarrassing. With these two referendums, which will be binding and where it is true to agree with critics that time may not be the most appropriate choice, with these types of solutions we have tied the outcome of the referendum to decisions that are not entirely clear. We will then have no international treaties and no other documents, and the decision will be binding. I am saying this because of all this debate about the need for people to drink pure wine. With this, of course, the problems of pouring this pure wine will only be transformed into a larger number of political actors and all will be, we will have trouble explaining what will happen in the contracts that we will only get later. So we must somehow be afraid of these big words, that now everything is fine. The referendums were described under some other applicable rules which "de facto" would likely have the same effects. With this constitutional codification of these two referendums, the National Assembly has taken on a huge burden, along with the government, of the visas for these referendums. So I hope that, or I must say so, on behalf of the Group of Members, we hope that we will take all that is in these positions, including, in fact, not the material of constitutional changes and also the rules which affect Article 90. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, Mr Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much, President. Since I've only got a minute and six seconds left, I'm gonna be very short, clear and sharp. Whatever the wise and political sound of all these words, gentlemen, how can we change constitutional regulations and constitution before the will of the people is known? How? On what grounds? First, before entering the two integrations of the will of the people, if this is to enter the European Union and NATO, then legislation, constitution, laws and all the rest of the legislation is changed. And one more thing, I warn the people of Slovenia clearly and loudly, is the decision of the Council of Europe in the European Union, where they are representatives of the government and have legislative and executive power. This means that the European Parliament will not have legislative power, and this power will also be lost by us, the representatives of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Dr. Bajuk was first notified, but he's not in the hall. Who's from the United Nations? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Rokavec has given up. Mr. Anderlich? [[You don't want to.]] Dr. Bernick? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Onion? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Kremjar? [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Janez Petty Officer? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Malovre? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mamić? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Sculpture? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Peterle? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Shirce is not here. Mr. Sok? [[Not at all.]] Mrs. Maria Ana Tisovic? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Zupan? She's not here. Dear Members and Members! I invite you to the Chamber again, because we will proceed to the decision on the submitted positions of the Constitutional Commission. We will vote on the basis of the views expressed in the report of the Constitutional Commission on page 21. Before voting, I remind you that the position will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. This is set out in Article 178, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will wait a few minutes for the Members and Members to gather. In fact, we concluded the debate more quickly than was envisaged under the plan for the work of the National Assembly at this point of the agenda. Representatives of the parliamentary groups, I ask you: Can we start the vote or wait for any of your Members and Members? That won't be necessary. Okay, thank you very much. We are therefore moving to a vote on the positions, as I said, on the positions on page 21 of the report of the Constitutional Commission. We will vote on all five positions separately. First, on the position under order number 1. We're voting. There are 74 of us present, in favour of 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the position under order number 1 has been adopted. We vote on the position under order number 2. We're voting. There are 74 of us in attendance, 70 votes against 4. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the position under order number 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the position under order number 3. We're voting. There are 73 of us present, 65 votes against 4. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the position below 3 has been adopted. We decide on the position under order number 4. We're voting. There are 72 of us in attendance, 67 votes against 5. [[The vote was 67.]] [[There were five votes against.]] I take it that the position under order number 4 has been adopted. We are still voting on the position under order number 5. We're voting. There are 72 of us present, 65 votes against 5. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that this position has also been adopted. We're done with the decision. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Commission shall draw up a proposal for a constitutional law. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all so much and good night.
