ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! A nice greeting to each and every one of you. We will begin the 31st session of the National Assembly. I want you to be successful. It's a very difficult meeting. You can see this from the agenda, which we will first discuss and adopt. Before we move on to the agenda for this 31st session, let me inform you which colleagues and colleagues will be absent today due to other obligations. These are colleagues of Battelli, Horvat, Jakič, Malovre, Peterle, Štemberger, Trofenik and colleague mag. The abortion, colleague of Pozsončev and colleague of Zalokar Orazem. So, maybe before we go to the decision-making session, there's a notice about who I invited to the meeting. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all agenda items. The Chairman of the Magnificent Government. The robbery will answer the first three questions of the first item of the agenda. The representative of the Council of State at the 2nd point, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic at the 40th item of the agenda and candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors and candidate for its first alternate at the 40th point. So now we're going to move on to the agenda. The proposal is prepared in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure. You received it with a reference to the 14th of this month. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal and enlargement, so that the proposal could be fully decided. If any of you don't want to present your position, we can make a decision. Please, if you check yours. [[...]] Explanation of voice. Comrade Petty Officer. But all the others, if you look at your voting devices at this time, so that there will be no delays. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. We will not support this agenda in the New Slovenia Group. There are many laws that are too few to deal with. For we fear that what has happened to us will happen to us, correcting the laws already passed. This is a constant that is taking place, and therefore there is no point in dealing with poorly prepared laws. Maybe five points less and more ready. In short, we will not support the agenda for the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? We can go to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We will decide on the draft agenda as you have received by reference. We're voting. We set the agenda. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The agenda is set. Of the 58 colleagues and colleagues, 40 supported such a proposal and 10 opposed it. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 10.]] I'm guessing that's how the agenda is set. The conditions for starting the examination of points are met. The 1st item of the agenda, the questions of Members and Members will be discussed at 3 p.m. I would like to ask you to take into account the agreements reached at the College in connection with the course of this meeting of the National Assembly. If I may just sum it up before we take a break. Each day will be the most difficult item on the agenda at the end of the agenda. If it takes less time than planned with the plan, then we will make a preliminary decision, 15 minutes after I conclude the debate on this point. With this warning and notice, I will close the agenda, decide to rest until 3 p.m. Please, everyone, at exactly 3 p.m. in the Chamber, the Prime Minister will answer the first three parliamentary questions. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u4	We're moving on to one. A TIME OF DAY, THAT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Please take your seats, as well as government representatives, ministers and ministers. We will also be joined by the Prime Minister, Mag. Anton Rop, who will answer the first three opposition questions. To continue, of course, we must wait for the Prime Minister. Procedurally, please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u5	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! At the table, we received an overview of the questions raised by Members and initiatives that have not yet been answered, orally and in writing. Mr President, I must warn you that this list is incomplete and misleading. In fact, it does not contain, I have even sent an ER on my parliamentary question, to which Minister Maramor expressly promised a written answer. The question was raised at 16.6. 2003 and related to the financial obligations of the New Ljubljana Bank arising from the settlement with the claimants who filed an action before the Court of Justice in Trieste concerning the bankruptcy of the Market Bank and because I had asked another question, the part was answered, to the most important. We know everything that's going on with the Ljubljana Bank, what financial arrangements she went into. I think this question is extremely important for Slovenian taxpayers, but I have not received an answer to the emergency, so other colleagues have mentioned to me today that this list is incomplete and I have a feeling that the government recognises the whole list of unanswered questions, but it does not respond to some very relevant questions and does not respond consciously. This is certainly a matter of great money and such questions our own, the Slovenian government is obviously not prepared to refer to Members, although this is the period when the Ljubljana Bank was completely state-owned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u6	I am sure that the professional services that are preparing an examination of the unanswered questions of the Member States have done their work in their best interests. If any questions were overlooked, we will certainly add them to the list. This list is designed to give us some kind of review, especially so that the government can determine at some point how many questions have not yet been answered. As far as you're right, mate, we're going to supplement this list. So that I believe that we can conclude this discussion, my colleague Jerovšek, and give those colleagues and colleagues who will now ask the Prime Minister first and then the other ministers and the Minister first. The first question will be raised to the Prime Minister by a colleague, Dr Andrej Bajuk. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to reiterate the public's lack of credibility on the country's financial performance through the question of the matter. This is the questionable credibility of the data provided by the accounting information system of the Ministry of Finance or the government and for which you have been responsible for at least the last two years as the finance minister of the current government. I'm asking you: When will ensuring the credibility of the country's operating data, the state budget become a priority for this government, and what do you intend to do by the end of the mandate? There is much evidence for such an assessment, despite the fact that many of the data that should be publicly available are not accessible to the public and not to the young generation of Slovenian macro-economics, who would like to contribute to a more reliable planning for our future. The Court of Auditors, which should not, since the beginning of its existence, have been aware of the credibility of the State accounting system in recent months, in its audit reports to the final accounts of the State for the years 2001 and 2002 to point out the so-called shortcomings of the Slovenian State accounting system, which, in the professional language of accounting experts, means nothing more than non-compliance with the basic accounting principles and standards. Thus this year, the Court of Auditors has written down and quoted, among other things: "A computer program support for the management of business books allowed for shortcomings in recording business events in 2002 and thus the creation of balance sheet differences." Let me add, in the balance sheet differences, the size of which, of course, the Court of Auditors has not explained, there may be insufficient budgetary spending, unauthorized availability of state assets and so on. I continue: "We have found that computer software support for the management of business books does not have installed sufficient controls for data reliability and protection." Or another statement: "We checked the reports on the annual inventory of funds and liabilities to the resources, this is the inventory report. Most budget users did not submit an annual inventory report, so we could not obtain audit evidence of ownership, existence and completeness in the balance sheet on 31.12.2002." I could also mention, Mr President, for example, in the audit report on the audit of public debt for 2001, it is not yet available for 2002, the Court of Auditors issued an opinion with reservation, finding that the Ministry of Finance does not provide all data on the identification of public debt, financial debt at the level of the wider country. Mr. Prime Minister: Do you personally know reliable data on budgetary spending and unpaid liabilities and actual public debt, and when will you allow it to be known to taxpayers?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u9	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Your question probably concerns the audit report on the accounts and implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and also probably in connection with the discussion you have had on your committee, so that it would apply in the context of what you have stated to the Slovenian public to say what this audit report finds. This audit report notes that, in a significant part, the way in which the budget is budgeted is improved, as well as the implementation of the budget for 2002 compared with the budget for 2001 Not least, this also shows the opinion on the accounts of the State budget for 2002, given that you cited and quoted certain parts of the budget that are, of course, critical in a particular part, and that they are critical in order to improve certain things relating to the presentation of the budget. However, let us see what the Court of Auditors has to say: "The opinion on the accounts of the State budget for 2002. In our view, the 2002 state budget statements do not make any sense of incorrect indications. These statements may be deemed to represent, in all important respects, the revenue and expenditure of the State budget for 2002 as a positive opinion." For 2002, we received a positive opinion because, of course, progress in terms of the years 2001 and 2000. In 2000, as many as five direct budget users had a negative opinion, in 2001, as many as six direct budget users had a negative opinion and in the government, when we considered this report, we specifically defined the conclusions and all that is needed for individual budget users - and, as you know, these budgetary users are responsible for the implementation of the budget - to do and correct. We have also taken a big step forward with the help of your commission. For 2002, there is no negative opinion, in short, no one has a negative opinion, and also positive opinions are six, and the overall opinion on state budget statements is positive. If we continue to look at the implementation of the state budget, I will quote: "Except for the extent expressed by the above-mentioned levels of irregularity", this level of irregularity was 0.47%, we could look at international comparisons and see in which country the level of irregularity was 0.47%, "in our view the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 was in accordance with the rules". In 2002, we also made a significant move concerning internal auditing standards, insufficient, not enough, but a step forward. In 2002, we started with internal audit and the Court of Auditors correctly notes that in 2002 the Ministry of Internal Audit standards were partially met, and this is the weakness of internal audits, and they say: "As the Internal Audit Service at the ministries began to establish since 2000, we estimate that the internal audit standards were established in 2002 to a satisfactory extent." This does not mean, of course, that we believe that this is enough, we believe that it is necessary to complement them, that it is necessary to insist on the establishment of an appropriate internal audit at all ministries. However, as regards the overall statement of the situation, the balance sheet, the fact that it was only for 2002 that the Court of Auditors requested these statements for the first time, is the fact that, as you have said, the balance sheet has been flawed, the records in individual ministries and, of course, we will be correcting and correcting this year as well, and in this area have improved our records and budget performance, as we have done for 2002 in the case of current revenue and expenditure, we will also do so in this area already in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u10	Comrade Dr. Bajuk, supplement the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. While your answer is expected, Mr President, one year ago I asked the previous Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, why did you not comply with the provisions of Article 146(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in all ten years of the Government of Liberal Democracy, which says: "The State and the local communities show the value of their assets by means of property balances." At that time, you yourself, in your role as Finance Minister, claimed that a detailed inventory and review of all property owned by the State had already been carried out within your ministry and government. That the government, in accordance with the European Union methodology, accurately shows each year the price of the increase or reduction in the value of the assets, the indebtedness of the country. You've been offering me this information. It's summer around, and you've done nothing. The report of the Court of Auditors on the accounts and implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 is devastating for the government. You have not yet made an annual inventory of all the resources and obligations of the State. Every event in Slovenia can do this. The Government does not provide for the full and accurate recording of state assets and debts and revenues and expenditure. As was the case with the revision of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors was also unable to provide a complete statement in the revision of the State budget, since the Government, despite clear legal provisions, did not provide it with a balance sheet as an extremely important financial statement. I ask you, Mr President: What's in the balance sheets that you don't hope to show?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u12	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u13	So, I've already told you what the audit report says. Anyone can read it. I can tell you what he's saying again. It says that the statement for 2002 was good, that enforcement was good and that we took a big step forward. Neither one of the budgetary users has a negative opinion. So, where did you get the defeatist testimony?? On the other hand, it is true that, as regards the balance sheet and the requirements for the aggregate balance sheet, this requirement was first made for 2002 and that, according to the ministries, the relevant data were collected and it is not true that it is perfectly clear in the legislation, including the Court of Auditors alone finds that 20, I think that Article 20, of the Law on the Court of Auditors, is possible and is the basis for this to be required. The basis is also the law on accounting in Article 20, whereas the law on public finances itself does not explicitly define the requirement that this should be demonstrated and therefore this has not happened in the past. However, in the light of the requirements expressed on the Commission and the request also made by the Court of Auditors, the balance sheet has been drawn up, and shortcomings have been identified among individual budgetary users. The budgetary users have now received appropriate instructions and these statements will be prepared for 2003. Of course, the Court of Auditors will look at this again, and if it finds that there are irregularities, it will also alert the government. I am sure of this and, of course, we will complement them further. So there's absolutely no reason to hide or hide anything. It is simply that these balances are re-exposed, presented and, of course, we are also prepared to supplement the Public Finance Act appropriately, so as to define this standard explicitly and to ensure this in advance. Otherwise, as I said, the audit report on the accounts and the implementation of the 2002 budget is for the government as a whole positive and it is written in and read by everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u14	Procedural proposal. Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, with your answer, although you are very smiling to report this matter to us here in the National Assembly, I am not satisfied and will also request a public debate on this matter in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Mr President, this is not the demands of opposition Members, this is not the requirement of one law, this is the requirement of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And the only thing that the Public Finance Act does not require is that this asset balance sheet is included in the final account. So, enough of this scheming, I demand a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u16	Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you are proposing that tomorrow's national assembly, both in the first vote and in the first vote, adopt or reject your initiative to discuss at the next meeting of the National Assembly the response of the Prime Minister to your question. Tomorrow, when we begin tonight with decisions on agenda issues, we will first decide on your proposal. The next item is the question before the Prime Minister, Comrade Vnučec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The elections in Croatia are over and the new government will probably not be as it was. This is why, of course, it is now a good time for our government to approach the open issues, of course new, more serious, more comprehensive and more responsible. And I think it is also necessary to agree first what we want and how we intend to achieve this as a prerequisite for everything. Because it is very worrying that they are now almost alone, or most of the contacts, various statements, opinions, and informal forms of associations of Slovenian politicians, both in state, sports, and Croatian. Instead of dealing with this, institutions that are also designated by law and by law to engage in foreign policy. For failure to resolve open issues can lead to this or has already led to the emotional responses of citizens on both sides, and it may happen that even if governments reached an agreement, this agreement would not be accepted among citizens. I also find it irresponsible to leave the resolution of very or most important foreign policy issues to hired, external experts, called arbitrators. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Prime Minister: How do you plan to tackle open issues in the future in relation to the new authority in Croatia? What are the official views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for arbitration on the resolution of open border issues between countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. This has been said many times and I can repeat the government's position. The government opinion is that the agreement reached and also initialled between the current Prime Minister of Croatia, Mr Račan and Prime Minister Drnovške is good that this agreement, which was finally confirmed by the Slovenian Government, was also discussed on the Foreign Policy Committee, which was prepared in the procedure to be adopted and our opinion is that these are, of course, fundamentals and, I would say, if you would also like the historical basis for any talks and discussions by Slovenia on the border. The fact is that this agreement did not go through on the Croatian side in the assembly and, of course, we do not have any need in advance to deviate from what has been agreed, and we have already said this several times. There was an election to the Assembly in Croatia, it is likely to take some time for the composition of the government, the coalition and, of course, we will then hold appropriate consultations with the Croatian government. Depending on the position of the Croatian government, we will then act. However, whatever the views of the Croatian Government, we do not intend to depart from this agreement, in particular not from the grounds laid down in this Agreement. So we have said that in principle we do not oppose the arbitration. Therefore, even if the arbitration agreement were to be concluded, it is necessary to conclude the arbitration agreement first, but in the arbitration agreement it is necessary to define a whole set of elements of such arbitration and, of course, who is the arbitrator, what is the duration of the arbitration procedure and what is the basis of the arbitration. Of course, our request will be that one of the foundations of this arbitration is the agreement of Račan-Drnovšek and the question is, of course, whether long-term solutions can be found on these foundations. So that we are ready to talk within this framework, but this is our hard foundation on which we will insist and I do not see the need to withdraw from this agreement in any way or to imagine the one who might have given up on these points in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u20	Complementary question, colleague of the grandchild? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Well, I have deliberately mentioned at the outset that, of course, the government will now be significantly different with its neighbours, so the question is what will be the new requirements, but no matter what, it is now the right time for consensus to be found in our internal policy area, so I am interested: Are you also going to make any moves to ensure this necessary internal political consensus for various solutions options? Do you think it is necessary to resolve this in part or to include other open issues, such as ownership of Slovenians in Croatia? This, as we have heard, has been repeatedly threatened and violently occupied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u22	Would you like to add something, Mr. Prime Minister, to your answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u23	I am of the opinion that everything about the agreement on this agreement is relatively majority also in the National Assembly and I do not see the possibility of discussing in particular how this agreement should be amended. It is true that there are some ideas among Members to restore these talks, but I think it is necessary to wait for the new government and for these views. As for the other interviews, the discussions on the other elements, we have already indicated some options for thinking to the current Croatian President, as well as to the previous or current V.D. the Prime Minister and these talks will always be possible to hold discussions. We have our views in this regard, both with regard to the Ljubljana Bank, both with regard to the border and we are ready for these talks whenever it comes to them and, of course, we will try to reach them when, of course, the political situation in Croatia is appropriate for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Thirdly, the final question tonight is raised by your colleague, Victory Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is 9. 11. In its consideration of the proposal for the implementation of the 1991 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and in its consideration of the final accounts of the 1992 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council adopted this decision in the second paragraph: "The Government should examine the issue of arms traffic within three months and inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia thereof. In line with the findings of this investigation, it should correct the relevant accounting documents for individual users of the budget." Member Jagodnik, as first signed, is 28. 5. 1993 asked 27 questions from the Member States on arms trafficking. 30. 12. In 1999 Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek sent a letter to the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the involvement and responsibility of the holders of public functions regarding the finding of the arms letter in which he was actually insinuating Mr Mohet to stop investigating the case. Reports on weapons to the National Assembly, despite the fact that they were given at the 55th regular meeting on 13.9. 2000 as the 27th point, has not been considered. In reviewing the documentation concerning Depala village, documentary evidence confirms that it was a cash transaction in the arms trade of many millions of U.S. dollars. In view of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, this was also evident from the documents. As an example, let me mention one document of the Ljubljana Bank of 18. Ten. 1991, which gives the Ministry of Finance a guarantee of 28 million German brands with 13.25% interest rate, for Unimerkat for the purchase of arms. The OCS Military Intelligence Service, despite the fact that the National Assembly has ordered the Intelligence Supervisory Commission to investigate this cash business, continues to claim that it is only about 10,000 German brands of suspicious money. Even in the National Assembly, the Commission has problems with reviewing the material, as the Secretary-General, Mrs Velishček, does not allow us to look into the documents or is the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor, perhaps in connection with any of the intelligence services or by her order, despite the fact that the law on classified information in Article 4 speaks, 'access to classified information without permission has a commission to supervise the work of security and intelligence services'. I ask the Prime Minister: "Do you intend to clear up this dirty image of Slovenia, which, because of the illegal arms trade, drags away from our independence, or will you succumb to pressure from various ends and things under the carpet as your predecessor tried to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you so much for asking. Well, there's no reason, at least, as far as I'm concerned, to hide anything or not to try to expose it. Last but not least, as Vice-President of the Security and Intelligence Commission, you are aware of the conclusions of the National Assembly, and you are well aware that the authorised panel of the Commission on these matters took place in September 2003 at the headquarters of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence and took a look at the documentation in that case. This, of course, can be done at any time by the Commission and, of course, further checks and initiates appropriate procedures and in this respect, all options are open. Let me say, of course, that and that the authorities responsible for the disclosure of such acts, particularly in connection with the illegal arms trade, are relatively active and that this is also seen from certain figures and disclosures of offences in this area. As you know, in Article 310 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, illegal trafficking in weapons is defined as a criminal offence, and if we look at the review of these crimes and the disclosures, then you see that there were quite a number of them and that, for example, there were, in 2000, 199, 2001 173 and 175 and that relevant procedures have also been initiated in relation to these offences. In such a way that the authorities responsible, the prosecution and those responsible for the relevant procedures are competent and responsible to carry out such matters, to the extent that they are, of course, disclosed and to the extent that such indications exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u28	Complementary question, colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The authorities that were supposed to do something and what to find didn't solve it satisfactorily, found nothing, and all things collapsed. The Director of the ODS also does not wish to provide any information and I think he is lying and misleading in his statements, which is why I am interested: Is this a broader concept of data concealment, especially the truth, involving certain Slovenian policies and even some State secretaries? There are rumours that there are people abroad who intend to initiate procedures in an international criminal court against some of the actors of this illegal arms trade in Slovenia, and sometimes even I think that some ministers and government officials are acting behind the government and somehow in their own way, so I would ask: Do you intend to explore, identify and sanction the matter in your work circle, and yet complete it all together? Given the sensitivity of the subject, because you certainly cannot answer some of the questions here directly and precisely, I would ask that I also receive a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u30	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u31	Okay, you'll get a written answer. However, I can only answer in general. There's no concept. There's no cover-up. With regard to all these procedures, procedures are and are ongoing and they can continue and there is no one to prevent them, but in particular the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u32	Procedural proposal likely, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u33	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. In the light of the last reply of the Prime Minister, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that the matter be discussed in public at the next meeting and that it be voted on tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u34	Okay. Thank you very much. This is the second proposal to the National Assembly, which we will decide tomorrow as soon as we move on to a decision on the issues on the agenda. It is a proposal from colleague Jelinčič to hold an interview at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the response of the Prime Minister to his parliamentary question. We will now proceed with questions to the ministers and ministers. We will first hear, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, the answers of those ministers or ministers who have not answered the questions raised at previous meetings, but are obliged to do so. Magus first. Janez the Digger. Please. Responds to colleagues from Levič, Diacija, Rokavac and colleague Ana Maria Tisovic. Please. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. Mr Levič asked about the rehabilitation of the pollution of the river Ščavnica at the 29th meeting. It says that the river Ščavnica belongs to the fourth quality class and that it stinks and, in short, the final question is when a cleaning plant will be built in Ljutomer, how the country will be involved in solving this problem - the Lzloomer municipality itself does not have enough money - and how we will deal with this problem in the wider area, because other municipalities themselves are not able to solve these problems. Cleaning polluted water from households, municipal waste water is the task of the congregation, which is why municipalities are set up, and that is why they get the money. It is true, however, that the state co-finances municipal infrastructure. We have an invitation to tender every year, and this year we had an invitation to tender for the period 2004 to 2006. This invitation was also accepted by the congregation of Ljutomer, like many others, and it had a perfect role to play. In short, the project documentation was appropriate and therefore they also obtained a grant decision of 206 million tolars or 50% of the recognised investment value. The building permit for this has already been issued. By starting an investment in the coming year, the congregation is expected to complete it in the coming year, thus settling the problem. It is true, however, that other congregations in that area, such as the Crusaders, will have to connect or build their cleaning facilities or join in and build an appropriate sewage network. As far as I'm aware, these activities are still a little slow. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u36	Comrade Levich, do you have a supplementary question? No, no, no. Then we can finish. Minister Kopač will now answer the question of colleague Diacija regarding the construction of so-called first homes for young families. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u37	Mr Diaci asked me at the 30th session what the state is doing to build apartments for young families and so-called first apartments. At the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, according to the options we have, we strongly encourage the resolution of this problem, and our instrument, the instrument in our hands, is the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. First, let me say that solving the housing problem of young families or those who first solve their housing problem is a priority, the first priority both in the national housing programme and in the housing law. In the one that was adopted this year and also the one that has been in force for the last 10, 11 years. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has been tendering loans for many years. And so far, he's called 24 calls. All these tenders granted housing loans of 67.4 billion tolars. With more than 60% of young applicants and 93% of applicants who first solved their housing problem under the approved applications. With these percentages, I want to illustrate that in fact the entire operation of the housing fund has been and is devoted to solving housing problems, those who for the first time solve their housing problem or mostly young families. In addition, on the supervisory board of the Housing Fund, which I am managing, we decided in 2001 also on the new activity of the Housing Fund, which is the co-financing of non-profit dwellings built by municipalities. Let me say that this moment is in construction, or where it is, in short, that it was built in 2003 and that this moment is still in construction, so that in the coming year, I am talking data for 2003 and 2004, together with the municipalities, we provide 816 non-profit apartments and 96 market apartments from these joint projects. And that this form of cooperation with the congregations has shown tremendously many positive things because the congregations provide land and we with money. And in this way, it is easier together to resolve housing problems that, while basically, should be addressed by the congregations. As you know, in the framework of the housing fund, the construction project of 5,200 apartments is currently under way, although this is a longer period of time to be allocated to savers in the national housing savings scheme. Well, the first apartments in this package are already for sale, of course, to savers under the national housing savings scheme. According to the structure, many of these savers are young families, or those who first solve their housing problem. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u38	Would you like to complete the question? Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ministers! Thank you very much for the answer, but I would like to add another question. Today, it costs a square meter in Ljubljana, where it is usually the most expensive, between 1,200 and 2,600 euros. Prices are comparable or even higher than European prices. More than 80,000 Slovenians are saving in the national austerity scheme, of which more than 22,000 will end in June next year, half of them, as I believe, will buy an apartment. They've calculated that they need 4,450 apartments, but unfortunately they don't. Thus, we will come into a situation of increased demand with barely significantly increased supply. A logical consequence will be a new price rise and probably a rent. Point 1.2.5., housing needs, the national housing programme with the entry into force of 8.6.2000 states in the third paragraph: "It follows from the assessments and analyses carried out that in Slovenia at least 10,000 housing units should be provided annually with construction and renovation." On the basis of the national housing programme, the Act on the National Housing Savings Scheme was also adopted. It is more than obvious that both adopted acts will not achieve their purpose, this is a solution to the national housing problem. That's why I'm interested in the following: How are you prepared at the Ministry for the future release of housing funds in the light of the prevention of a disastrous rise in housing prices, which is unfortunately to be expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u40	Please, mag. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. As I mentioned in the original part of our response, we went to a very determined action in the framework of the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia to build 5,200 apartments. According to our estimates - we survey savers all the time under the National Housing Savings Scheme, so that we would have about a real number of what the savers intend to do after the scheme has expired, because you probably know the law, it is not necessary to use these loans to buy apartments, they can also use them for something else, these favourable loans to which they will have the right to. Well, you mentioned the case of Ljubljana. In the coming year, we estimate that a maximum of 2,000 apartments will be needed in Ljubljana for those who will dissolve their first five-year savings scheme under the National Housing Savings Scheme. To this end, the fund went, as I mentioned earlier, to the extensive construction of its own dwellings, which it offers for 1,300 euros per square metre. This offer is already outside and this offer has even reduced the price of a square meter in Ljubljana. It is true, however, that this move of the Housing Fund may be relative in the second year following the increased demand. In short, of these 2,000 we plan to have the housing fund, I now think a little bit about it because I don't have the numbers on me, trying to provide about 900, a little over 900 apartments, this year and next year for those who will untie their five-year savings scheme. According to data on what kind of apartments are currently running, what kind of housing construction is under way, we are of course assessing that the supply of new apartments will be sufficient in the coming year. That the offer will even slightly exceed the demand. It is true, however, that it would be good, as stated in the national housing programme, to have 10,000 new dwellings a year, but unfortunately this was too high or too optimistic to set a goal that Parliament, on a proposal from the then government, confirmed, and the reality of the assumptions was, and over time, proved to be less credible. However, with all the actions or with all the instruments we have at our disposal, we are trying to prevent the negative effects of additional demand on the housing market in the coming year through the actions I have already tried to describe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u42	Let's keep moving. You have two more questions to answer. First of all, answer the question asked by my colleague Rokavac regarding the closure of the mine. And then Anna Maria Tisovic's colleagues regarding the protection of drinking water sources.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u43	Yes, thank you very much. I'm sorry. Mr. Rokavec asked this. In view of the decision issued by the Mining Inspectorate concerning the closure of the Sitarjevec mine - that is there in Lithuania - I ask you when the decision will be implemented or whether the decision has the same effect as it is, even the possibility of realization. The Sitarovec mine was closed in 1965. And the mining inspector, Mr Kavčič, has in fact ordered 21.3. this year the Mine of Lead and Zinc in Closure, Mežica, in closure, the decision that he must provide or implement appropriate necessary insurance measures to ensure public safety in the Sitarjevac mine and that he must also remedy all the environmental impacts of mining on this mine. The mine of lead and zinc is the closing of the legal successor of Rudnik Sitarjevac, which was closed in 1965. The Mine of Lead and Zinc Mežica complained of this decision and this decision was abolished in the complaint procedure and was returned to the Administrative Authority of Grade I in the re-trial procedure, i.e. to the Inspectors. The Inspector has not decided again whether it has not yet been decided, so of course I cannot answer the question at this moment whether the decision will be implemented, because this decision does not really exist at all. However, if it is issued and if it is legal, because even if it is issued, it is likely that the Mine of Lead and Zinc Mežica will appeal again, and then it has the possibility of realization, only if Rudninksvinc and Zinc Mežica have the appropriate means to rehabilitate the Sitarjevac Mine. This, given that this Mine of Lead and Zinc Mežica is in fact just before the end of their lives, because the closing works in the Mine of Lead and Zinc in Mežica are practically finished. You are also asking whether this Decision has the legal basis in the law on the provision of the part of the resources necessary for the gradual closure of the mine. It does not have a legal basis there because this mine or this work in the law was not mentioned, so it is also difficult to expect that the one who manages the lead and zinc mines in closing is the Ministry of Economy, within his budget lines, can provide some additional resources because there is no legal basis in the law. In short, the decision, if issued and given legal power, will be put into question in relation to the implementation and it will be necessary to discuss this issue when and if it will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u44	Complementing the question in this regard. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. This answer, of course, did not satisfy me. The fact is that the Sitarjevac mine in Lithuania has found that there is a serious danger and a threat to this area, both for the lives of humans and animals in this area. The mine was not closed in accordance with all the regulations laid down by the terms of 1965, but it is known that the legal successor of this mine is the Mine of Zinc and Lead Mezica, now of course the Mine of Zinc and Lead Mezice in closing. The legal legacy is known, a problem that is, the problem of who will carry out this debt rehabilitation, which actually threatens the danger of both humans and animals in the area. The citizens of this area are not only interested in the drying up of a law, but when will this danger be removed, which is the one that is competent, in this case the competent State is obliged to eliminate at a certain time. My question, of course, would be: How will the state deal with this? I have already given a special initiative whether the state will resolve this by special law or under this law. Of course, the State has a choice of choice, but, Minister, I would point out that the State will be more obliged than ever to perform those tasks, the closing tasks on this mine, which, of course, it has not done or is not a legal successor, the legal predecessor of this mine did at a time when it was necessary to do so. We rightly expect a certain solution. We know that this solution cannot be overnight, but within reasonable timeframes and even within reasonable financial frameworks, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u46	I understand that we have received clarifications on this issue and that Minister Kopač can now answer the final question to which the answer is due, and this is the question of colleague Ana Marija Tisovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. In fact, Mrs Tisovic has asked several questions: protection of water resources, how this area is regulated, how we provide and protect water resources, how we exercise control, what conclusions we have come up with and what measures we are taking, what we intend to do in the future, etc. This is now a very extensive matter and I may not be sufficiently exact in my answer, but if there is an additional question, what exactly am I trying to answer more precisely? Water resources are protected under the Water Act and also under the Health Care Act, or control of the quality of water resources itself. Thus, the quality control of drinking water wells is within the purview of health inspection and there is a regulation on the health adequacy of drinking water. Water carriers or protection of groundwater areas are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and, of course, we exercise this control through environmental inspection. Essentially, the regime in the area from which drinking water is drawn shall be laid down by a regulation on the protection of aquifers. These acts were previously adopted by the municipalities until the adoption of the Water Act last year. I think last August's marriage was enforced. After that date, the government adopts such a regulation, because this authority has passed to the government and so far we have, for example, been more pronounced in the public eye, the one by which we protected the land area of the Ljubljana field from the Schengen area to the waterfront of the Oaks and prohibited the use of pesticides in certain areas and so on. In short, what measures are we taking, you ask. Of course, we implement the determination regime first or the establishment of a regime for the use of that area, then we conduct inspections, such as the introduction of plant protection products. This is a competent agricultural inspection. Then control the disposal of possible waste and, like, environmental inspection and so on. But I don't think that was even a question. However, as regards other measures, let me say that, for example, we, together with the Ministry of Agriculture within the framework of the agricultural programmes, have provided increased funds for agricultural programmes in such areas protected by the water protection zone. In your question, you refer to the congregation of Command, where it intends to build a business area and something like that, and it is said that there is a source of drinking water. Such a business zone must first come into the spatial acts of the congregation. For once, as far as I have checked, the Community of Command has nothing to do with its spatial act, but when it changes its spatial plan, it must first apply for professional starting points. That's what the voters are asking for in terms of drinking water protection. It's an environmental agency. The Environment Agency shall give the starting points to be followed by the plan maker and then also review this final product, i.e. what the plan was designed and whether it follows these professional starting points and, of course, also the water consensus. All this procedure has to be carried out before an object or a group of objects is placed in the space, but, as it is said, the municipality of Command does not yet have a spatial plan to predict what you are asking me here. That's because the question wasn't very exact, I don't know if I answered everything correctly, but maybe you'll ask me something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u48	Please, colleague Tisovic, you have the floor for a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Greetings from the government, my fellow Members and colleagues! I thank you, as far as this is concerned, for your answer. However, I am very interested in the fact that climate change in Slovenia will change greatly, as climate scientists have predicted, because the last droughts have already shown water shortages. But despite the dry seasons we have two provinces in Slovenia where drinking water is constantly lacking. I want to know: Does our country have any vision, a strategy to secure water reserves for the future? If it has this strategy, if it has these water reserves recorded, who are the ones protecting these water resources. Are financial resources also provided for this? We are responsible that our craftsmen will have healthy drinking water so that they will not import it. That's why I want to know what's going on in this area. Do we have a strategy or don't we have it yet? Will we make sure that our water reserves are kept clean, or will we leave it unrestrained or unsupervised? What we have now, I believe we have good control, only what is needed, these reserves, I am interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u50	Okay. Please answer this part of the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you for asking. Water resources, as I mentioned earlier, have been protected by municipal decrees, now by government regulations, or the regime for placing all facilities in the premises must follow the starting points for water resources protection. In Slovenia we have over 90%, I think we get 92% of all drinking water from the groundwater. We at the government last year have determined that our direction is the purity of groundwater, such the purity of groundwater, that it can be drank without prior cleaning. We therefore prescribed a standard of 0.1 micrograms of plant protection products per litre of water or pesticides per litre of water, and this is the direction they rarely have anywhere in Europe, since they usually clean water before use. That is why we have also foreseen a land use regime in all those areas in Slovenia where this limit value is threatened, this maximum permitted value. These areas are the Kranjsko Polje, and practically from the Karavank to Ljubljana, then the area of the Ljubljana groundwater, namely in the Ljubljana field, then the area around Žalec, Celje, the area around Krske, part of the area on the Krske Polje, then the entire southern Prekmurje, starting with the Apache field and the area around Mura, the area of the Ptujsko Polje, south of Maribor south of Ptuj, that is to say the Haloz. I think I have mentioned all areas that are potentially at risk with regard to the use of plant protection products in agriculture. The government has also prescribed a regime for the agricultural use of these land. The determination is the maximum possible introduction of nitrates into the soil, setting out the maximum possible introduction of plant protection products into the soil. An integral part of these efforts to preserve clean water is also the investment programme for the construction of municipal cleaning plants, which we have built up until 2015 and we implement it without any particular difficulties. In 2005, for example, cleaning plants will be in operation in Celje, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Ljubljana, Maribor, a little later in coastal towns, as well as in a number of other Slovenian places. [[...]] The problem is quite broad. Of course, we have a series of measures, because protecting water resources, clean water resources is one of the first or the first strategic priority in protecting the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u52	That's how you settled your debt to the National Assembly. You answered the four questions of colleagues and colleagues who were asked at the meetings when you were not present. Minister Mumorje's three questions are still pending. He's away today, too. That is why the Minister responsible for regional development is with us today, Mag. Zdenka Kovac, who will first answer Bogdan Barovic's question about the establishment of the provinces. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u54	Just a moment, Madam Secretary. You have a procedural, fellow mag. It's a trifle. You can shut down Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I've been asking the same questions for the third time. The National Assembly has appointed these ministers, voted on them, not responded. This is the third time I've been missing, the third time I've asked the same question. I cannot be satisfied with the written answer, because the questions are such that they are interested in the widest spectrum or large number of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia because they relate to financial damage. We've got a deal to make. Either someone will give a different answer or the minister commits himself to giving a written answer to all the media. In all key media, the answer is that citizens will know the answer. I ask the questions here, but I don't get the answers. Does the Secretary of State answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u56	That's impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u57	How's that? What is the government's attitude towards parliament? Nothing. Why are we sitting in here? Why are we sitting here asking questions if we don't get answers?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u58	I can share my dissatisfaction with you if the ministers are missing more than once. I don't know why the Minister of Finance is away today. She didn't tell me why. He texted the request, please? [[...]] Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. I got an explanation from the ministerial groups that he was absent abroad. I have no doubt that the Minister of Finance will answer the questions you ask him as soon as he arrives at the National Assembly for the next meeting. On our side, we just have to please, can you let me, because I didn't bother you, that I was done! [[...]] I will certainly remind Minister Marble that he still owes some answers, and he will be the first to answer at the next meeting. First, he will settle the debt on the questions raised so far and then also answer those that you will raise in the context of today's meeting and the following. In this sense, any procedural suggestions are not necessary, the Rules of Procedure govern this relationship. It is quite possible that one of the colleagues and colleagues with such a business relationship is not satisfied. We have heard these criticisms in previous mandates as well. However, the Rules of Procedure take into account certain principles of relations between the government and parliament, which we cannot. This is how I propose to my colleague Kelemin that we do not propose new solutions in this regard. Everything can be discussed within the College, so today we would not be looking for solutions to these questions, because we are not responsible for this right now. Do you have any other suggestions?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, all of you! I am also on this list for unanswered questions from Members of Parliament, which I have already asked 9. 9. 2003 to Minister Janez Copacz. He did not answer mine whether he would answer that question today after I was on my turn, of course from that magnetogram, if you go to see him, honourable Mr President, you will even find that even you have assured me because I asked the Minister to answer in writing. He didn't answer in writing either. I'll get the magnetogram later. Today Mr. Minister Digač is here, of course I thank you for that, but you always find that there is nothing you can do if the Minister doesn't come, if he apologizes, but he's gone. What do you mean? The Parliament of the National Assembly may suspend such an irresponsible minister overnight and we shall not do so. Why not? Because you feel the power that this is not necessary and that the Minister can do what he wants. But that's not true! He was appointed by the National Assembly and can be suspended whenever he wants, overnight if he does not carry out his task. Every minister knows that there are parliamentary questions and must come and answer. When will it be my turn to ask you, given that I'm on this list, I don't know when my question will be answered?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u60	. From your explanation, I believe you've agreed to receive an answer in writing. Is that right? As a matter of fact, if one of the questions is not on the list you received on the bench, I will ask the competent services to check it again and we will complete this list. The interest of the National Assembly is that the Government participates as conscientiously as possible in this agenda item. If possible, let us also make an effort, and you yourself have found that in this regard, I have said this before, some rules that we must adhere to. It is certainly possible for everyone, in accordance with the procedure, to determine the minister's political responsibility if he so wishes. But I don't think it's a good opportunity at this point right now. We know the procedural rules and everyone can get to them, and I think you can trust that if it is in the power of the National Assembly, I will do everything I can to work with the government to work well and properly with this point. Now I'm going to give the word "magic." Zdenki Kovač, Minister to answer the question put.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much for your word. Dear Members and Members. Dear Mr. Bogdan Barovich. You asked me a question about the regions, the number of regions compared to Europe, the European regions, the Sava region in this context and, of course, the characteristics of regional development in Europe in general. Allow me to briefly provide first two information related to the coherence of regional development when compared in the European Union where we enter. Even in Europe, with the coherence of the development of European regions, despite the long-standing regional policy, they are not the most satisfied, because, in fact, at the regional level, differences within the current Member States are increasing and it is necessary to say that when Eurostat has now considered the Slovenian level of diversity of regions at the NCC3 level, this is said to be between the 12 Slovenian statistical regions and comparable regions in Europe, in fact, Slovenia has also been in second place almost after our surprise, immediately for Sweden, after the lowest level of development of the Slovenian regions. All the detailed indicators pointing to why it is so classified have also been drawn up in a detailed report, which you will receive in writing, or, of course, is also reflected in our report on regional development. Now, in fact, to what you've just said. What are European regions? The EU Regulation, which has been amended and adopted on 26.5.2003, provides for NCC3-level regions, this is the statistical level that we also have now established in Slovenia, that the population conditions must be sufficient between 150,000 and 800,000 inhabitants, and 800,000 inhabitants should be organised at NUT2 level. What's the difference between one and the other? If this is the NUT2 region, then we know that it can draw up an independent development programme, a programming document that then aligns with the European Commission and thus draws on the European Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund funds. In this case, we have a comparative view of the possibilities for two, up to three so-called cohesion regions in Slovenia. Such a position has also negotiated the negotiating ground so far, but only in the sense that Slovenia has remained in the demand that it be organised in three cohesion regions to draw on the European Structural Funds in the next programming period, i.e. after 2007. On the other hand, the Commission has taken note of this, but has not adopted such a principle. However, the commitment was that even at NCC3 level, at the level of twelve statistical regions by the end of 2006, we will not change the boundaries of the statistical regions. This is the current negotiating venue. We are preparing for a new programming period. We know that currently the whole of Slovenia is a region in European terms. For the new programming periods, intensive simulations are being prepared, which, according to the new European guidelines, will also bring Slovenia in view of the so-called statistical effect of the newly entering members. We are preparing negotiating points for both the three starting cohesion regions and in case we fail to negotiate these three regions. If we were to change my organisation at the so-called NGC3 level in this period, that would mean we have to renegotiate this NCC3 level. If we now have twelve statistical regions, then in the event of an accidental decision on several regions, we would have to renegotiate with Eurostat, because, as I said, the negotiating points were clear and agreed not to change this until 2006. If I relate to this now, our view of the law that we are preparing and will be tabled in Parliament when the law tabled by Ambassador Kelemin is concluded, that is why we come from 12 statistical regions. Here, too, the Sava region is classified as a separate statistical region in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Barovich, would you like to? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We will also hear the reply of Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, to the question of Igor Štemberger on the transport of oil by the Adriatic Sea. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I have received the question of Mr Štemberger. This issue concerns the protection and use of the common Adriatic Sea, plans of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the future, the government's position on Croatian plans for the transport of Russian oil to the Adriatic Sea and tankers further west. However, we prepared or sent a written reply to a longer written contribution. However, for today's part of the parliamentary programme, let me say in particular the following. We are very closely following Croatia's plans to activate the Samara-Omisalj pipeline. We expect Croatia to follow as strict ecological and other standards as possible. We are involved in many agreements and discussions on the protection of the environment in the Adriatic through various organisations, particularly multilateral ones such as the Adriatic-Ionian initiative, such as the Slovenian-Italian-Croatian Commission under the Adriatic Sea Agreement against Pollution and could also mention it. Of course, we agree with the Member that the issue of effective protection of the Adriatic Sea and coastal areas for our country as a maritime country is one of the priorities. In doing so, we base our activities on the international conventions and organisations in which we participate, as well as bilaterally as possible. Let me point out that our Minister Kopač, at the meeting of the Ministers of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative in Zadar on 6 June 2003, has achieved that an obligation has been entered into the contents of the Action Plan for the Adriatic to produce a strategic environmental impact assessment for all maritime activities. These texts shall be made available to Members. With regard to the implementation of this Decision, the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy of our country, in cooperation with the Faculty of Maritime Affairs, then called a meeting of experts within the framework of the permanent bilateral Slovenian-Italian-Croatian Commission for the Protection of the Adriatic Sea, which then also established a special working group. Then there was a conference in Brdo on 13 October, where we also spoke in the framework of the Adriatic-Ionian initiative on the Adriatic Sea. Let me draw attention to the preparation of environmental accident measures in the northern Adriatic. Here I have in mind the already mentioned Slovenian-Croatian-Italian Commission, following an agreement on cooperation in the protection of the Adriatic Sea and coastal areas against pollution. It is clear that this part of the Mediterranean is extremely vulnerable, that the development pressures on marine ecosystems are increasing, and that all these changes or threats need to be carefully monitored. We have been working together since the beginning of these organisations, the already mentioned Adriatic-Ionian initiative, still foreseeing further activities, providing for the signing of an agreement to implement a sub-regional action plan to prevent pollution caused by maritime accidents and other activities or other arrangements. All these memorandums, all documents dealing with this issue, shall be listed in writing. Let me finish. There is also a memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Croatia and Italy on the system of mandatory reporting of ships in the Adriatic Sea. This was launched on 1 July 2003. Work on the control of the transport of ships loaded with hazardous substances is carried out in accordance with expectations and contributes to greater safety of the marine environment. A memorandum between the Government of our country and Croatia and Italy on the introduction of a common navigation system and a separate navigation scheme in the northern Adriatic has also been prepared by an international coastal organisation. I expect that the implementation of the separate navigation scheme will be possible in the coming year in accordance with the prescribed procedure applicable to similar cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And now the answer of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. France Buta on the question of the sale of land and forests in 2004 and 2005. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I believe that this is an option presented by the draft law on the implementation of the budget for 2004 and 2005, which provides in Article 10 that up to 1 billion and up to 2 billion co-financing of irrigation systems could be allocated from the sale of agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia in 2004. In fact, it is a proposal on the basis of which a national irrigation project, which has been dead for several years because the regular state budget cannot afford other expenditure on direct payments, investments in the field of safe food and similar implementation of this national irrigation project. It is found that the national irrigation project is economically justified at approximately 12,000 hectares of land, which would in particular be under intensive plantations, some permanent plants. To this end, it is calculated that the project could be implemented within four to five years if approximately 2 billion tolars per year were invested in this project. It is therefore proposed that this project start in 2004 not with the current budget but with the purchase of agricultural land and forests. In 2005, this would continue in the second year to two billion. The upper height is thus determined. If we wanted to raise 1 billion tolars, we should sell about 500 hectares of forest and 500 hectares of agricultural land. However, I would like to point out that the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund operates according to the latest data with 396,000 hectares of agricultural land and forests, and there is no reason not to encourage agricultural land transport. In fact, this would be the easiest way for the country to approach the implementation of such an important project, which is certainly impossible to implement from the current budget resources. If we deviate from this, it is clear that this project cannot be covered in the current budget. We haven't done it in years. This is also important because of a certain positive step in the context of the fight against natural disasters. But it's true that this is a possibility. We have a law, on the other hand, we should draw up appropriate sub-legislative acts on the basis of which land could possibly be sold and so on. On the other hand, as it is said, this is the upper limit, if, of course, the National Assembly decides to do so, you will decide in the coming weeks. However, I would like to point out that it is clear, although the agricultural land and forest fund is operating with approximately 400 000 hectares and that it would be necessary to sell thousands of hectares of land to the tenants for the first year, that, of course, approximately 30% of the land managed by the fund can still theoretically be under denationalisation requests, especially now that, following a decision of the Constitutional Court in Official Gazette 108 a few weeks ago, it is clear that it will also be necessary to return large matters such as Bor, Natems, Chinkve, Turm Zichi and similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, please, supplement your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! You forgot to say that the Republic of Slovenia has only 20% of agricultural land and forests in its possession. 80% is already privately owned, so, of course, the numbers you said are misleading from this point of view. This is not just one billion, it is three billion in total, because in 2005 you expect to sell for 2 billion dollars extra. That is why I said for the last time that this sale, because it breaks down the principle of balanced transport, by which we have now maintained the value of agricultural land and forests and have even increased the area, which we have even been commended for within the European Union, because so far we have had a rather large number of green areas, which is at risk with this proposal. On the other hand, this measure would make sense if these land were purchased by farmers. However, the economic situation of farmers does not allow this. Therefore, the very purpose of this item for irrigation systems is also missed. It would be much better if these lands were already being sold, so that these subsidies would then be allocated to farmers for the purchase of new land or for the maintenance of forest roads, because already in the budget these funds, which are set, are not enough for 50 % of the needs that appear every year. In addition, we must not forget the socio-environmental function that has enabled state land and forests, as regards free access as well as protection areas and protection of water resources. Therefore, of course, I would like to ask: Does the Ministry of Agriculture, or where is the national importance here for the conservation of land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia at the time of entry into the European Union? Does this not break the concept, or is it contrary to the law that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests is now carrying out? Reducing the areas under which it operates also reduces the potential for denationalisation, replacement, land exchange, enlargement and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. This proposal will be decided by the National Assembly and will give you the opportunity to make an appropriate decision. Secondly, I think that a thousand hectares and two thousand hectares next year will in no way endanger the Fund's core activities. Thirdly, I do not think it will be exactly the case that the national interest is to preserve all these land owned by the state. That these lands are state-owned is a case of some historical circumstances. If we did not have nationalisation in the country, we would certainly not have these many lands. It is a national interest to sell certain land owned by the state and in no way differs from other land, agricultural or forestry elsewhere in Slovenia, in order to purchase, inter alia, those forest land which are indeed of national interest. These are the lands of the protection forests and so on. The structure of ownership of agricultural land and forests is largely the result of relevant events after II. World War II, and to some extent the result of the active policy of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and the country that wanted to sell and buy where it makes sense and where it is indeed a state interest. Otherwise, there is no national interest, at least after our assessment that the land country owns, for example in the poetry valley, which is in no way different from the other land owned and owned by private farmers. The State must implement its national strategy and its environmental orientation and all that falls under it, regardless of land ownership. The ownership of land here must not be an obstacle, but land is something else, something the country wants to do. If a country restricts activities in a space, it limits them to all users, regardless of who owns them and who does not. As a matter of fact, it's given as an opportunity. This will be decided by the National Assembly when it adopts the law on the implementation of the budget 2004/2005. If he doesn't make that decision, he won't make that decision. In this case, of course, I can say as Minister that I do not see the possibility of accession to the implementation of the national irrigation project. The National Irrigation Project is the project that this National Assembly requires to approach its implementation every year and all the time, and therefore there are clear economic justifications, based on the studies made by the World Bank in cooperation with the Slovenian Government during the two-year period in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u70	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u71	I must say that I am not satisfied with the answer and I think because I have also tabled an amendment and proposed a reduction of this item and was rejected, I understand that the reference here to how the National Assembly will decide is misleading. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the debate be held on this subject, because I believe that the sale of these lands will give up the possibility of a deliberate impact on vital functions and leave them to private, profitable interests, where the country of course has no influence and we also know how difficult certain things are if only one article is against. I think it is necessary to hold a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Vnučac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. France Buta, on his question, will decide at tomorrow's meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. Mr France Cukjat will now ask the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Health. Please, Mr Tsukjati, given that the Minister of Finance is excused not to make a statement, whether you wish a written or oral reply at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I made a written announcement to the Minister of Finance a month ago. At the time, the minister was not in the National Assembly, so I withdrew from the question. I'm going to set him up now, and I expect him to answer him orally next time. It's a matter of wage burden. It is quite clear that our salaries are far above average in comparison with the European Union. Social security contributions as a percentage of gross social product are in Slovenia 13.69, in the European Union 11.4 from gross wage. The tax on the payment sheet in Slovenia is 1.7 per cent in the European Union, as a percentage of the gross social product. Thus, the total gross wage burden in Slovenia is at the summit of the European Union of 48.2. Of course, it follows from this that net wages, what a worker gets in his pocket, are so low. Of course, this makes us very uncompetitive. Capital does not come to Slovenia, investment, and even this poor capital that we have goes to those areas where wages are less burdened, so factories are closing down and so on. In February this year, the Minister of Finance correctly stated that the central source of tax reform was labour relief. Workloads, payloads. In terms of health care reform, the White Paper, we are faced with the opposite of wage burdens, 4 percent of net wages, and 2 percent of gross and 4 percent of pensions. That's why I'm asking: How did the government come together? It agreed before the publication of the White Paper, so the Ministry assured us that it was not possible to give the text of the health reform to public hearing in a timely manner because it was waiting for harmonisation in the government. For this reason, I ask the Minister of Finance: What is it now with this alignment, or how will he resolve the projected wage burden? This is a question raised to the Minister of Finance. Now, please, if you'll reorder me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u74	Certainly, Mr. Tuckyat.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u75	to start [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u76	You have a new 3 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u77	Yeah. Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u78	Can you turn off the microphone for just a second? Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u79	The next question is addressed to the Minister of Health, Celje. As I announced in writing 14 days ago the question to the Minister, I repeat here. There were 2,800 unsupervised histological samples in Cel. Surely there are some of these samples that we can say if we were diagnosed in time, we would extend a lot of life. Anyone who thinks it didn't make him die or shorten his life's life is naive. I wonder whether in Slovenia the number of cancer deaths increased by 4% between 1999 and 2002, while in Maribor at the same time, and in the Celje region where this is the case, by 16%, which is four times more. I'm not going to talk about some causal relationship here. We can only sense it. It's a terrible causal relationship. I ask the Minister: What did he do at this time, which is already quite a long time for the Celje case to not happen again? This is said to be a late diagnosis, which is so important for the survival of our patients, not to repeat, but not only in Celje, but also elsewhere in Slovenia, but not only in the diagnosis of histological drugs, but also in other diagnostics. We all know that timely gastroscopy can save the patient from stomach cancer and the like. I am not talking about health reform, because these are problems that need to be solved without any reform, ongoing solutions, ongoing, I stress, every year over and over again. So I ask: What did he do to speed up the diagnostic procedures that are very important so that the waiting period on these key points for the patient and the survival of the key points would be reduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor. First, of course, at the principle level, the question of what is behind in waiting for the test. The delay in waiting for the test violates the professional guidelines and also violates ethical standards. The very backlog is, of course, the burden of what he does, and of his directly superiors. It is not possible, despite the fact that I will continue to state a number of measures of natural and current policy and, of course, at the level of regulation of the system, which the Ministry has in its hands to address such cases that occur, but certainly it is not possible for the Ministry to forward or not play a role in order for each individual doctor to look over its shoulder. On the contrary, we are often even punished that it is not our responsibility to go into such details. However, let me mention that with regard to the Celje hospital and the Celje affair case, I can say that, according to our data, according to reports, the hospital itself has not been lagging behind since 2001. Investigations to determine whether any of the patients suffered harm in this process are still ongoing. Allow me to reiterate that, as a doctor, I myself have expressed a similar belief at personal level as you, Commissioner-in-Office, that there have been so many setbacks and so many patients that it is difficult to predict that there was no least harm. It is true, however, that I am obliged within the system to trust those who have been given the legal authority to exercise this part of professional supervision. For this part of the individual cases, the Medical Chamber shall carry out investigations. So far, she's reviewed 91 cases of backlogs. In six cases, it requested further clarification. So far, the medical board has found no causal link between the backlog and the deterioration of the medical condition. The reviews continue with 220 more cases. This part of the investigation will start in December 2003. It's older cases. They all come from the area of suspected cancer, because right here it is possible to predict that the time delay in the test caused damage. At the level of what the Ministry is doing, I would say that we are nevertheless establishing systems of professional responsibility for each contractor individually. In addition to business and financial management, we have established professional management in hospitals. In recent years, hospitals have produced extensive professional reports. Let me show you, maybe you'll use it as evidence of the anti-system. This is the Professional Report of the Celje Hospital for 2002 on 400 pages. Similar reports are made by a number of hospitals. It is true that within these reports, performers are particularly proud of their achievements. We monitor these achievements every day. But among them we get the first self-critical observations, and also the report on the backlog in Celje is described here. I would, if you would allow me, say, in the backlog, in the type of error, as it's called a backlog, we think that the first person to notice it is a citizen or a patient himself. Therefore, at this level, we stress the need and raise the awareness of citizens with a number of activities that their role is to trigger first and to demand this outcome. After all, the entire practical policy of the ministry in recent years is such that it calls on citizens to boldly communicate without reservation what is their right. We are preparing new rights, citizens' rights, in an extensive chapter of the new law, where one of the rights will also be the right to a medical examination at the right time and will also be registered. Thus, the honourable Member, would reply as follows. In addition to the system of professional guidance, supervision, extended colleges, obligations of institutions, there is always the responsibility of a doctor who knows when he is seriously violating or when he violates what is a professional guide and what is an ethical standard. In this case, we will also play the role of supervision in the future within the control system and in sharing responsibility with the Medical Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u82	My colleague Tsukati wants to give a supplement to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u83	Somehow I don't think we understand each other very well, because it's a general approach to reducing waiting times in diagnostics, important diagnostics. Not only within a single hospital, like Celje Hospital, but the entire health system. Three, four years ago there was a waiting period for gastroscopy in the Ljubljana region six months ago, today is over one year. It was about 8 months for the cystoscopy, today is more than a year. For CT, the waiting period was three to four months, today, if the machine doesn't break down, it's almost a year. All of this, Mr. Minister, we both know well, is very important diagnostics, which are sometimes so important that it has been fatal for a patient for several months. And, of course, you can solve these questions. I don't know, I'm sure the ministry has a very well-made network of these diagnostic capacities, very well-designed party waiting periods at these points. That is why I ask: Where are those points and what has the Ministry done to reduce the waiting time here at these key points? It's not just histology checks in the drawers, but it's patients waiting at home until they arrive at the E.R. stage and then land at the E.R. and the next day the investigation is made, maybe he recognizes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u84	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. In this area, it is certainly linked to waiting periods on human and permanent capacities and on the capacity of equipment and, of course, also on the priorities that each profession sets out to answer this question. I will not dissuade, honourable Member, that we are in certain areas, for example, and I would hope to say that the number of investigations is increasing everywhere, but that the demand for these investigations is also increasing. For example, at this time we have counted the number of operations of the grey eclipse in a few years, and yet the waiting period is still one year. The same is true in other areas. We have more equipment than nuclear magnetic resonance, computer tomography, listing only those key points. We are investing enormously in comparisons with previous periods relatively much in this key equipment. For example, next year we're going to get two more units for nuclear magnetic resonance. And the fact that investigations multiply in a particular area is not the result of not doing anything in the area of capacity, but because of the increase in the number of referrals. At this level, we are also turning to expertise and also through clinical guidelines that are being prepared, we want the profession, there is in fact no different response for a short period of time to put the profession first in waiting for a particular investigation, and those patients whose suspicion of a particular type of diagnosis is so important that it has to be given priority. We are trying to respond to both of them in the future with the greater human resources that we anticipate, the growth in the number of doctors, the elimination, we are already doing this, the elimination of those bottlenecks that equipment represents, and the numerous bottlenecks are also in the organization, the poorer prioritization of what they are doing around the world, so that within the limited resources, however, the patients who need it all turn out to be. I won't, because you told me not to mention the white book, but in the background of getting to the right priorities, there are also systemic movements in the field of health organisation. Each individual doctor who has a major problem at this time, how to provide his minor group of patients with a search, desired examination, cannot respond to this. Only a different organisation of the entire healthcare system can be agreed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Sok will now ask the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u87	Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to ask the Minister of Agriculture. At the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, agriculture will be much more at stake than it already is. One of the measures of the common European agricultural policy, which is known in the Member States of the European Union, is the early retirement measure for farmers. This measure is designed to increase and concentrate agricultural production resources, in the first place agricultural land, of course. The measure is an additional incentive for the generational transfer of farm management. Therefore, the measure is also important for the social provision of income to older farmers who have decided to stop farming. The eligibility for funding under this programme is linked to the age of the candidate, at least 55 years or that this age does not exceed the normal retirement age and working status, but is a continuous agricultural activity in the last ten years or in some five countries. A farmer who is early retired under this scheme must renounce further market production of agricultural products. However, the holder of the farm must demonstrate adequate competence and undertake to continue the agricultural activity on the farm taken over for at least the next 10 years. In the European Union, early retirement support can also be given to farm workers, who must be at least 55 years old and who must cease the agricultural activity completely after entering the early retirement scheme. The receipt of early retirement support is valuable and time-limited. The carrier, i.e. the farm, is on average entitled in the European Union to receive an annual sum of up to EUR 15,000 for a maximum period of fifteen years. Early retirement may be carried out up to 75 years of age or up to the normal retirement age of the farm carrier. If the farm transferer is entitled to a regular pension, the sum for early retirement may also be granted as an allowance for a regular pension if the pension is too low. Where more than one owner is involved in the transfer of the farm, several beneficiaries are said to be in the framework of early retirement measures, a total amount of support shall be fixed for all, as if this amount would be received by one beneficiary. Since I'm running out of time, I'll be done. In Slovenia, with regard to the early retirement of farmers, it has remained a promise, although this measure is part of the programme of the common European agricultural policy and could be financed in part by the European Union. I ask: Why so and when will we introduce this measure into Slovenian agricultural policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Now the Minister for Agriculture, Master Booth, will answer first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Members, for your question. First, I would like to say why this action is not yet in Slovenia. Because this is not a mandatory measure of the common agricultural policy or a measure of the common agricultural policy in the context of what the European Union understands as common and compulsory. The common agricultural policy, which is mandatory, includes 23 market orders covering direct payments or subsidies, Eco-0, market interventions, import and export regimes and quotas, such as production restrictions. This is a mandatory common agricultural policy for which the European Union spends about half of the EU budget money. The early retirement measure falls under the rural development scheme under the "guarantee" or under the guarantee fund, in that part which is not required. This part of rural development under the Guarantee Fund includes an agricultural environmental programme, which is mandatory, and also includes a support measure in an area with limited ECO-1 factors, which is mandatory for cinema. Our country's been doing it for years. The State may also decide on an early retirement measure. The early retirement measure is currently being implemented by a poor half of the Member States of the European Union. Others don't. Among other things, it is not implemented by Austria and is not implemented by any of the acceding countries. Why aren't they doing it? Because the measure is extremely expensive and can be co-financed as a country with 80% of the total payment, but within the framework of the money you negotiate jointly for rural development programmes under the "guarantee" or under the guarantee fund. Slovenia decides to introduce this measure by pilot in 2004 and fully implement it within the limits of the level it will be able to achieve in 2005. To this end, in Brussels, the rural development programme for the actions of the 2004/05 Guarantee Fund, in which we define precisely, we propose how to benefit from €250 million in 2004, 2005 and 2006 plus 20% of our own participation. This is the money, 250 million euro, which we have negotiated under the rural development programme for the Guarantee Fund.In short, early retirement measures can be implemented at different levels. Payments shall normally be paid per hectare of agricultural land. Basically under the terms you mentioned. And it is clear that this early retirement measure, of course, takes money from other measures. In Slovenia, we decide and give priority to actions under the rural development programme to areas with limited factors or support for the hill, karst and other world, an agricultural environmental programme which is a mandatory element of rural development, and, as it were, to new early retirement measures. The measure, for the first time, is financially extremely expensive, secondly, very demanding. In Slovenia, about 1000 to 1,500 farmers would be eligible for this measure in 2005. We are also slowly entering this measure in Slovenia, and I think we will be the only accession that we will begin to introduce. Once again, we did not introduce it because we did not have the money available for it and because it is not a mandatory element of the common agricultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u90	My colleague Sok wants to ask you a few questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u91	Just for a little while. In New Slovenia, we are thinking that there would be no harm if any other measure were to be reduced and this measure was put in place. There's more than one reason. Look, Mr. Secretary! Statistics say that 10,000 agricultural operators have ceased to grow in Slovenia over the last three years, and 5% of the agricultural areas in use have grown during this period. In addition, you say you will launch a pilot project in 2004. We are convinced that if you want to introduce this, an appropriate law must be adopted first, just as it is in other countries. We ourselves have looked at several laws in this area. At this point, of course, there is no law. Moreover, approximately 200 million Slovenian Tolars allocated to this measure in the 2004 budget are abolished by amending the budget entered into the procedure in the National Assembly and no appropriations are allocated under the budget for this measure in 2005. Thank you very much. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much. First of all, there is no need to adopt a law because the legal basis is in the agricultural law. It is necessary to adopt an appropriate sub-legislative basis, which is also not necessary because it is already defined in the European legal order. Next. The measure will be financed from a package of so-called rural development payments under the 'guarantee' or under the guarantee fund if the programme we sent to Brussels is appropriate and will also receive a very light from the European Commission. Another time. I am convinced that we have not yet introduced this measure within the money we have had at our disposal, but we have given priority to direct payments, to supporting areas with the above-mentioned factors, in particular the hill, karst, mountain high-rise world, agricultural environmental programmes and investment support, and to rural development programmes known as pumps, local infrastructure and so on. In this country, we will gradually make a decision on this measure, and we will examine what the effects of this measure will be, because, after the general assessment of most of the European Union countries, it is that measure that is decided by the countries already implementing and fully implementing other appropriate measures. If we want this measure to be greater, we should propose which rural development measures can only be four, but only four can be measures within which you can choose this option. These are eco-1, payments or areas with mentioned factors, an agricultural environmental programme, or an eco-2 and an eco-3, early retirement and the achievement of European standards. These are the only four measures that can be paid in addition to a few small educational measures, etc., which are known by the European acquis under the rural development programme under the Guarantee Fund. In short, if a replacement is to be made, it can only be done within these four measures and not within other measures, because these measures belong to this package, for which the European Union allocates 80% of the money under the rural development programme. And not last. If many more farms have to stop in Slovenia, this process will be positive if they stop automatically because their land will be processed by neighbors or other farmers. If this is not the case, Slovenian farms will never be equal in competitiveness with others, and in the global context of the internal market of the European Union this is very important. In short, if a certain number of farms do not stop farming, others will not be able to increase. It is only wrong when the farm ceases to grow and others do not take the land for processing and do not process the land further.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Miran Potch will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I see that the Minister of Labour, the family [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u95	Just a minute, mate Potch. I looked at my colleague Sok, and I understood that colleague Sok knew there was no Minister for Education. Would you like to ask him an oral question - just to clarify this, colleague Potrč - will you request an answer in writing? Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u96	I don't think it makes any sense to ask questions today, then one or two months from now. I will simply ask him this question orally at the next meeting, and it would be right - as we see in the opposition - for ministers to attend meetings and answer questions if this institution of the parliamentary question does not have any real value. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u97	Look, before I give my buddy the run word, let me just explain this one more time. I asked myself where the ministers are - everyone has other responsibilities. Above all, we will have to consider, given our entry into the European Union, whether the parliamentary issues will continue on Monday, given the fact that most of the meetings of ministers of the Councils are for individual departments on Mondays in Brussels. My friend Potts has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I am asking the question to Mr Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Vlad Dimovska. At the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, the Member of the Council, Dr France Cukjat, made certain statements requiring clear answers. For him, the fundamental problem of political corruption in Slovenia is unjustified fighting pensions. They are expected to have 32,000 unjustifiable fighting pensions, costing the country 600 billion tolars, distributed in a corrupt manner. Dr. Tsukjat argues that the number of fighting pensions is decreasing every year than they should be reduced according to the natural age scale. Finally, Dr. Sugar claims that new fighting pensions are being added and asks: Who shares these rights? And: How many recipients of fighting pensions born after 1945? I have no doubt that it is unacceptable structures, that it is an ideologically motivated, offensive and hateful attitude towards the NOB fighters who resisted the aggressor during the occupation of World War II and, together with the allies, the Anglo-Americans, liberated Slovenia. Finally, it is a matter of ignoring constitutional obligations, as the Republic of Slovenia, by constitutional law adopted in the Slovenian Parliament on 25 June 1991, stated that national liberation wars and members of their families will guarantee rights to the extent and under the conditions they had before. Since false claims and fictitious designs are used to tell lies, it offends the NOB participants and challenges the rights they legally enjoy, I ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs: First time. Do the recipients of the fighting pensions receive the same in accordance with the constitutional obligation and on a legal basis? Another time. In recent years, how has the number of fighting pensions, old, disabled, family, and all moved? Third time. Are persons born after 1945 really among recipients of old-age and disabled fighting pensions? And: How much is all the funds that are allocated from the budget to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia for participants in the National Liberation War? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you very much for that question. Of course, we have obtained some information that will be able to answer your question about the fighting pensions. Let me begin by saying that on the first question concerning the receipt of legal and legal pension, I can claim that this is done on a legal and coherent basis and on a basis. All in all, we can say that in recent years the trend in the number of fighting pensions has been declining, but we are talking about several types of these pensions. For 2002, it can be said that 39,000 participants in the national liberation struggle and 759 farmers were paid. Very precisely - I don't think there will be any questions - I can say that these pensions are divided into old, disabled, family or widowed pensions, so I would like to give you the exact numbers that we have obtained from the pension and disability insurance institution. Thus, there were slightly more than 18,000 old-age pensions in 2002, and since 1998, this number has dropped by almost 5,000. Of the 6500 invalidity pensions in 1998, there were slightly more than 5000 in 2002; family or widow's pensions were about 15,000 in 1998 and 2002 because of the fact that some family and widow's pensions were received by family members. Well, the total number to say that I said earlier that in 2002 some more than 39,000 such pensions were paid, while in 1998 some more than 45,000 pensions were paid on this basis, which means that the number was reduced by more than 20 percent during this period. Well, it's a similar examination for the peasants of the Martial Retirement. In 1998, there were just over 1,100 of these pensions. In 2002, 700, exactly 759 peasant fighting pensions. On your question as to whether persons born after 1945 are among the recipients of old age and invalidity retirement pensions. However, the beneficiaries of pensions, which are an obligation to the budget, can also be recipients of family or widow's pensions, which, of course, also stems from the relevant law. However, as far as the appropriate scope or scope of all funds is concerned, I can provide, or according to the data of the institution, pension and disability insurance, the budget requirement for participants in the national liberation war, the Spanish war, the national heroes, the holders of the 1941 Memorial for 2002 amounted to just over 16 billion and 1.4 billion per month for the whole period of the year. Some 160 million SITs, on average about 13 million a month, amounted to the pension of peasant fighters. This is a short answer, but of course we can deliver these, because it was some numbers, also in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your specific answer. The data and numbers you've given us speak for themselves. There's no need to comment anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will put the question to the Minister without a department responsible for regional development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for the answers that are the basis for my further questions to you and, of course, to all colleagues. Why am I putting so much pressure on regional development? Because I come from Trbovlje and from the Sava region, which is still something - at least after all the positions that exist today - the country needs regional assistance, and especially from the European Union, which is now approaching and enabling this assistance. Dear Minister without a department, you said that the European Union was not satisfied with the increase in the number of regions. Although I believe you myself, I know that the European Union is the one that does not prescribe the size, number and competence of the regions, but precisely determines who and how it can get help. Statistics also show that you are likely to have found that regional levels are growing in the European Union. The countries of the European Union and the policies of the European Union support the weak, in the development of a declining region. You said that at the NCC3 level, where regions statistically existing would be included, there are some regulations of 150,000 to 800,000 inhabitants. For example, very interesting information is Austria is 72,000 inhabitants maximum for one region - and I think Austria has more than 120 about 130. Well, that's one part of where we could open a conversation, a conversation where we could talk. I was very pleased that you said that we have no intention of changing statistical regions. I was concerned that the economic development strategy, published in June 2002, had specifically discussed the meaningful membership at 8 regional centres. This means that, in particular, the Sava region and Trbovlje would fall into the central Slovenian region. This means that when Slovenia enters Europe, the average that it has to achieve in order for the net recipient to be a recipient will also come to the centre where this average is so high that, as at this moment, unfortunately the most impoverished region - because colleagues may not agree, but I say that this is how - they will fall out of structural funds and structural aid. In this regard, I would ask you: Why is your Ministry without a department so fragmented? They don't know what they're doing anymore, they're talking to each other, and they're talking to each other about what they're doing. As a result, instead of 100% Trbovlje, at the machine factory that happened, gets 19% of 100% aid granted? But it's not a criticism, it's just an attempt to organize ourselves once. This ministry should be a post ministry to decentralize or centralize, so that they will not - I will end - the funds are fragmented, so that they will not be divided by drops and no region - and we know what they are like, most of them are poor in Slovenia - does not get anything in fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, mag. Zdenka Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you very much for this additional question. Dear Members and Members. The fact is that we are taking into account the already negotiated starting points in the preparation of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development, so we are laying the groundwork in this law to form up to three cohesion regions, to be based on 12 statistical regions, as are now created, with possible minor changes to any of the municipalities that want to go elsewhere, but we will also need to negotiate here, and to respond to the challenges that have emerged recently, if there are also sub-regions within these major regions that want to have their own development programmes, we are proposing a solution to form so-called regional development partnerships within the statistical regions that are preparing sub-programmes for the so-called sub-regions. This law will also provide the basis for us to be able to get a real negotiating partner at regional level through the so-called establishment of a union of municipalities and the establishment of a regional development council. This will also give us a legal partner at the regional level to coordinate different policies. Now around Zasavje. It actually has two characteristics, on the one hand it is a statistical region, which we know of, which municipalities belong to, and then another broader programme, which we also call the Regional Development Programme for Zasavje, still includes the municipality of Laško and Radeče. Well, lately there has been a tendency to make part of this region yet - but this tendency comes from below - connected to the central region. Just on my last visit, I warned you what could happen. Because we are working to negotiate for the 2007/2013 programming period for the so-called A and B regions the most favourable position, that is, to continue to remain Goal 1, the region in the European scale, and thus to choose the most favourable treatment. Here we see Zasavje. We know Zasavya's problem. In the event of the collapse and closure of energy systems, there has been a large closure of jobs in the labour-intensive industries, which, of course, were not foreseen by the preparers of the 2000-plus programme to the extent that this is present today. And that's why we have a very big problem. We, together with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Economy, are just trying to revise the employment policy implemented in Zasavje, as well as the policy implemented by the Regional Development Agency and the Ministry of the Economy, in order to work together to see if we can accelerate the creation of new jobs. Currently, there are about 200 to 250 new ones in the region each year and, on the other hand, 400 to 500 are closing down. This is a key problem of the sussava that we must address. Now, as far as the effectiveness of the functioning of institutions is concerned, it was also one of the sub-questions. We will respond in detail, with all the physical indicators of how these institutions work. I think that we do have a development partner there now, but it is true that the whole system of promoting coherent regional development so far - as you said - has been well fragmented among different sectors, including among different institutions. And just the last case you're talking about, which, of course, is a positive solution, so that I can comfort you, there's nothing wrong - but the government is because it was put before the fact that it had to close the budget last year, it imposed on us, a regional development fund, to implement a certain part of the Zasavje programme. And that's why there's been this fragmentation. Sometimes it is simple facts that cannot be solved just as they are written down, but it is necessary to save them through the stream. However, in the case of Zasavje, what was intended for this year will be carried out. For the second year too, we expect the same level of resources, or perhaps even greater, because at least we will try to link the funds for employment policy and regional development funds in order to speed up the creation of new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Complementary answer, Mr Barovic, please. Madam Secretary, you can turn off the microphone. [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you very much for the answer, but I have three very specific questions for Madam Minister - I hope that once with the resor, he is still without it. First time. What is your position on the proposed change to the Constitution, where municipalities should lose the right to decide how they will develop regionally? Second question. Is there a vision of how many regions? I speak at NUTC3 level, that is, statistical regions - in Slovenia they should be, on a proposal from the Economic Development Strategy 8, or as much as you said before - I understood you as much - 12 as there is now. And the third question. Does this country realize that the allocation of funds from the European Union’s Structural Funds also depends on whether the State of Slovenia becomes a net recipient or a net payer? This connection is very interesting. If we lose aid from the Structural Funds, because cohesion is another aid, as far as I am aware of the situation, we also lose the status of the net recipient, which is of course good. Should we maintain this regional flexibility to get as much from the Structural Funds as possible, then, as far as I understand - if you answer me, is that right - we will still be net recipients by 2006 at least? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much. First of all, by 2006, we will certainly be net recipients if we are to draw on these funds, for which we are now completing preparations for the way in which we draw. So, a single programming document and an entire implementation structure. Here Slovenia as a whole is justified as Goal 1 and there is no further discussion here. Let me just say this: within the programme document for co-financing projects from the so-called A and B regions, we have provided indicative 60% of the funds and the remaining resources for the C and D regions by trying to follow the regional criteria here as well. After 2007, however, the case is somewhat different. First answer to the first question. So our position in our ministry is that it is necessary to encourage the process from the bottom up. That is why in this law on the promotion of coherent regional development we define the union of municipalities as a legal person, as the partner who will actually organise development at this regional development and thus transform the statistical regions today into so-called development regions. This has already become the case since the adoption of the regional development programmes. That's it. We also want to attract the economy to development, so we propose a solution where, in fact, the regional development council will be composed of representatives of the union of municipalities, representatives of the economy and representatives of the social partners, because only together can development be created in a region. Of course, just for the reasons I mentioned earlier, that we now have the legally defined 12 statistical regions, which are also negotiated in the European Union at NGC3 level, and that we have committed ourselves not to alter the boundaries of these or these 12 statistical regions by 2006 we propose that we build the current system of upgrades in 12 statistical regions. However, we are aware of the problems in at least two regions, as well as the concerns of the municipalities, and we are also aware of how difficult it is today - in the case of Podravja - to harmonise anything else at the level of the regions, because there is simply no cooperation between the municipalities. We will, of course, when this law is proposed to Parliament, draw attention to what may potentially happen if there is division into several regions. Because in the end, politics will decide. We cannot guarantee that the European Union will also be able to negotiate that instead of the 12 now we have 14 statistical figures for Europe to agree to this. It can be, it can be, it won't be. This is a matter of negotiation; certainly, by 2006 they should have 12 of them. However, as regards the drawing-up of European Structural Funds - one minute - this is not relevant to European cohesion policy either 12 or 14 or 8. A maximum of three regions are relevant to European cohesion policy. So it's going to be some form of interconnected regions, whether it's 14 or 12 or 8, which will then form a joint programme to draw on the European Structural Funds. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, we have already talked about the cell hospital today, but I will be more specific for a nuance. On 12.11.2002, I first asked you a written question concerning non-examination of tissue at the General Hospital of Celje, and on 5.11.2003 I asked you a question regarding a specific case in the same hospital where the waiting period for histological examination of tissue was five months. Five months. We cannot say that this can only be confirmed or denied by experts in this area, that such a long waiting period for histology has also resulted in a final result which was unfortunate. However, we can see in the media daily that this was not a lonely case. I also reviewed the statutes of the General Hospital Celje, where organisations and responsibilities are clearly recorded and defined. At least there's no qualms about my notions. It is also noted that there have been, or have been, such and other professional controls: either internal, medical, administrative controls. So I would like to ask you this: When and in this particular case will you order the professional supervision provided for you under Article 56, paragraph 2, of the Medical Service Act? And: Will you include foreign experts in this team? Let me quote section 56 of the Medical Services Act, which states: "The Chamber exercises professional supervision by consulting doctors in accordance with the rules and the annual programme adopted in agreement with the Minister." The second paragraph, "in spite of the preceding paragraph, the Minister may order his own professional supervision." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you very much for that question. Allow me, honourable Member, to address precisely the specific case that has occurred in the recent incident of Celje Hospital in the event of a specific case of a hospital in which there has been a long-term delay in saying the following. In this case, the hospital itself ordered internal professional supervision and also included, on our recommendation, an external expert from the oncology institute. Secondly, in relation to the direct responsibility of a doctor or a doctor, a Medical Chamber has been involved in this matter, which will assess the direct responsibility of both or more doctors in this matter. We have not yet received the report from the Medical Chamber. Our decision, which we have already made to the public, is that, in view of these reports, we will be as they will be - and I am sure that they will be sufficiently clear. We are convinced that there has indeed been a delay, that there is no excuse for this delay and that there is therefore a similar offence as it has been in the case of all those unsupervised tests that we have dealt with in the past. In a particular case, however, the question arises whether this caused damage in a particular case and whether the damage was health or possibly death - this is possible and detectable. The answer is very delicate and we expect a precise response, which also affects the area of criminal law. Thus, there is no doubt that we are waiting at this first stage for the response of the two bodies or two groups carrying out this control. Of course, in any case, we reserve the right to act with or with what opinion we will receive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. You want me to supplement your answer, Mr. Diaci? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you. So, if I understand you correctly, your possible application of this second paragraph of Article 56 also depends on this first so-called internal control. I propose or give an initiative, and I have already presented this in writing to you that you will order this professional supervision in any case. Because if we were to draw parallels, say, with financial internal audit, we could actually find that if only internal audit was enough, then we wouldn't need an accounting court. And here's a very similar thing. Internal control, including with an external expert, is a completely different matter than if you order professional supervision and attract foreign experts into this control. That's why I'm giving you the initiative and I'm asking you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u118	I'd like to comment on it the following way. It is certain that the attention of the public, not only in this case, even in other cases, which are just open, requires consideration of how intensive, how credible, how credible, how credible, how credible, and before professional investigation of certain cases. But there's something else to think about. There are a lot of these cases in a major system like the health system. In the pyramid or hierarchy of measures ahead of us, we need to respect the sequence, trust domestic experts, the bodies available, and only as the next step implement other possible mechanisms. Your initiative will undoubtedly be taken into account, among other things, when we decide what to do at the next stage, if any.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Stanislava Stopar will ask the Minister of Transport two questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. What a lovely greeting to all in attendance! I now have two questions addressed to the Minister of Transport: The construction of the Vransko-Blagovica motorway section, with the consequences of drilling tunnels and other interventions in the Trojan area, has a strong impact on the quality of life of people and causes great material damage to economic and housing facilities. In particular, the damage caused by the drilling of tunnel pipes at the trojane inn site, where some 160 people were employed and were already traumatized when they were removed from the highway. The damage was reported by 34 victims. On the basis of the judicial valuations already made, the proceedings are ongoing, and it is increasingly evident that for most of the victims compensation is being paid and the damage is being remedied. The affected citizens and municipal council of the municipality of Lukovica are disturbed by the ignorance and avoidance of all those who are participating as investors and performers in the trojans. Article 29 of the Regulation on the locality plan of the motorway, section Vransko-Blagovica, provides for immediate repair of injuries or damage caused by the construction of the motorway. So I ask: Why is it that there is a delay in solving harmful cases and delays in the recovery of these cases? What will an investor, Dars, do to expedite the resolution of complaints from affected citizens and the Trojan guest company? That's the first question. Let me just go on with the other one. For many years the Krajina Zirovš has been pointing to the deterioration of living conditions along the road of the new highway Blagovica-Sentjakob. As a solution, they propose to buy and demolish four buildings along the highway. The locals had already turned to Dars and the Ministry of Transport, through the municipality of Lukovica, for this purpose, with the initiative to amend the regulation on the local highway plan at Blagovica-Sentjakob. The initiative was rejected. The municipality of Lukovica therefore also referred the initiative to amend the said regulation to the committee of the State Council for Petitions. The Commission supported the initiative and request of the Zirov Region and the municipality to amend the Regulation on the locality plan for motorways in the Blagovica-Szentjakob section by providing for the purchase of hazardous properties directly along the motorway in Žirovša. The Commission also proposed to the Ministry of Transport for petitions to prepare everything necessary to amend or supplement this Regulation. On the basis of the Dars report, the Ministry of Transport also responded negatively to the petitions commission. I ask: Why did the Ministry of Transport reject the initiative? What are the reasons for this? Did the investor, Dars d.d., monitor the environmental load on the highway in Žirovša? Is he perhaps preparing any other measures to remedy the negative effects on the endangered residential and economic facilities in Žirovša? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Jakob President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much for the word and, of course, for both questions. On the first question, you have already correctly concluded that both the recording of the damage and the assessment of the damage specifically in the drilling of the trojan tunnel pipes are taking place. So, assessment of damage to objects that are usually above these tubes. It is also true that these works, or that this damage is secured in the performance of the works or that the operators of the part, insure this damage to the relevant Slovenian insurance companies. These procedures, of course, are not completed overnight or in a few days, but sometimes because of the procedures the insurance companies have, they are also involved. So it's not in any way about any ignorance, as you yourself mentioned. It is also a matter of compensation, in accordance with the contractual arrangements, and the damage which is and which will arise in the execution of works in the construction of this, will, of course, be reimbursed for Slovenia's important, motorway section. The other problem is the place of Žirovša. Here, too, there may have been some short contact at a time when the site documentation was being prepared or by the time the government - I think it has already adopted an appropriate regulation on the location plan around 1997 or 1996. Therefore, in view of the initiatives already taken on several occasions, as you yourself have mentioned, there have been several discussions on this subject on the relationship between the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and Dars as an authorised investor. Now that the section has also been placed on the market past Žirovš, preparations or some measurements are under way, some necessary procedures are under way to obtain, at this stage, the data required for any additional protection measures already in place or already in place at this section. Therefore, an invitation to tender for the implementation of the noise measurements to be carried out in accordance with the existing Regulation takes place during this period. In addition, soil and plant pollution monitoring has been established on the entire highway section of Blagovica-Sentjakob and the process of monitoring air pollution at the same section has been initiated. Thus, all the necessary follow-up measures will be identified in the context of this data obtained, and in this way, in the extreme case also the measure that you yourself have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Mrs. Stopar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u124	At the same time, the question will be as a proposal. Mr Minister replied that calls for reassessments and measurements are already being prepared, so I would ask and, of course, propose: Is it possible to re-examine this issue and to also examine the eligibility of the buy-in, of course on the basis of analyses, and consequently perhaps to supplement the local plan regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u126	This initiative has been addressed several times - I have already said - also. We will also take your initiative as an additional initiative to clear up this matter, specifically in the town of Žirovša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respectable ministers. I would like to ask the Minister of Labour, Dr. Vlad Dimovska, a question I would like to draw his attention to, in my opinion, an unrestrained problem, our legislation and, of course, to ask him how he feels about this problem and if he will join in with the appropriate change. But it's about the workers, the workers who lose their jobs in the bankruptcy of the daughter's parent companies. If such a subsidiary does not have its own property, the law and the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund, which provides in Article 19 for the right of retirement of workers in the event of insolvency of the employer, which is, however, substantially lower than that of other workers who lose their employment in the event of unemployment, shall apply. The paradox is so much bigger, because in the case of the morning girl from Brežice under the mother confection of the morning woman from Sevnica, the workers lost their jobs in the autumn of 2000. This company owns 100 % of the matrix from Sevnica. The company paid, or the guarantee and maintenance fund, to the employees of the pension as a result of the loss of employment only in the amount of one minimum wage reduced by taxes and contributions. This is mainly because, of course, this subsidiary was insolvent and, if it were not insolvent, and if the obligations had come to fruition, workers who had been employed there for more than 25 years would have received half the basic salary for each year of work. Thus, workers would be entitled to at least a million emoluments, thus receiving one minimum pension. I do not think that the solution is right, it is not fair, because in the case that a parent company that owns this daughter is also responsible and is responsible for the payment of all claims to workers in its subsidiary. I think that this arrangement also points to possible abuses, that companies are setting up their subsidiaries, transferring workers and workers who are redundant, to these companies and thereby reducing their obligations to workers. This arrangement does not seem fair to me, and I ask the Minister: Is and how does this obvious problem of legislation intend to be solved in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Minister, Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much for that question. In any event, the answer would be such that the right to retirement belongs to each individual, the individual under the Labour Relations Act. Article 107 is very clear here and Article 109, which provides for the payment of the amount of retirement due to the working time that an individual has performed in companies in the economy or in the non-economy. They move according to the legal provisions. Now, the method of payment, when we talk about bankruptcy, forcible settlement, lays down the second law, the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy, liquidation in Article 160. Those elements or items that need to be paid in advance are already listed there. Among the four explicitly defined for payments under this Act, in addition to salaries and allowances for the last three months, compensation for injuries at work, compensation for unused regular annual leave, also for unpaid allowances, which have been paid to employees under the rules governing working relationships, this is the Labour Relations Act. As far as obtaining retirement is concerned, for example, in a bankruptcy company as a subsidiary, you have already indicated how, in what way the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund provides for a bridge. This does not, of course, mean that employees cannot go into bankruptcy proceedings. However, it is certainly an example that you have cited that could be a way for businesses to avoid certain payments that they must make. Thus we will - thank you for warning us on this case - examine carefully and see in what case legislation needs to be amended if it turns out that this could be a path that employers could choose to avoid paying off, to those rights that belong to employees. As far as ours is concerned, I will propose an examination of this issue, which is to say, the relationship between the parent and the daughter's business, in what way is this insolvency payout now being carried out when it comes to the insolvency company. If necessary, we will also propose appropriate legislative changes. However, let me say that this law is within the competence of the Ministry of Justice, so that we will in fact propose intergovernmental coordination as regards such a case.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much. You want to complete your answer, Mr. Vizjak. Here you go. Mr. Secretary, can you turn off the microphone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u132	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I would have warned you about that. True, workers are entitled to a retirement and retirement allowance in the event of bankruptcy is one of the priority claims that the employer is obliged to pay. However, we are talking about an employer who is insolvent and in this case the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund is taken into account. That this problem is exposed here is primarily absurd, because the workers worked with the employer in the business premises owned by the queen. And of course, the worker will not be able to sue his employer, not the trust fund and the maintenance fund, because he does not have the property. And even if they're first on the creditors' lists, they won't get anything. However, workers find this story to be particularly criminal because of the fact that the queen has sold the premises in which these workers have invested not least in the past period. And, of course, it was owned by the queen. And the queen sold it and has absolutely nothing to do with the claims or debts of her own subsidiary, who was a single legal person. In short, I think that the matter in the law is unfairly resolved because the queen is not answering absolutely anything for the debts and payments of her daughter's company. And unfortunately, the workers here then remain deprived of retirement. So I would really like to look into this particular case, and thus to create a more general or even more corrective solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u135	The basic principle to be laid down by each legislation is the principle of non-discrimination. If there has been a breach of this principle, non-discrimination, this issue needs to be carefully examined and appropriate legal changes made. As I said, this case could be the starting point of how, in what way, things could then be provided at a more general level within the framework of legal changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues. So this is the beginning of a session with these Members' questions that I think is already quite insane. Look, it's gonna be 6:00 any minute. Today we have dealt with ten questions from the Members of Parliament, and 38 have been reported. From this I find that most ministers, or even those ministers who could ask them questions, are not here because they speculate. However, they speculate over time because they assume that this national assembly is unable to listen within its time frame or at least within a reasonable time until one acceptable evening and that all parliamentary questions will be answered and, of course, answered. So it's speculation. But here, at least as far as I know, are the issues that are very important to people. There's a lot of them. I appreciate, or at all, that it is the right of people to have their answers through Members, and they cannot, because: firstly, we are running out of time - just today, at the beginning, forgive me, we have addressed 10 questions from the previous sitting. 10 questions from the previous session! When will we be able to hear the answers to these questions that will be asked today - say, until when. We have not been able to ask more than 10 questions in three hours, but 38 more are in turn. So, tomorrow by 4:00 a.m. or sometime. So I am procedurally proposing that the College of the National Assembly consider or decide that, in the coming meeting of the National Assembly on the first day, parliamentary questions begin to be asked at 10 a.m., as is every working day of this National Assembly, and that they continue until 14 p.m. for ministers, then that two hours should continue as long as is necessary for the Prime Minister's answers, and then the normal procedure as we have so far, so that people will hear what they have the right to do. However, I protest against such a way that any, even such an absolutely irrelevant question, that the Member should give an answer, and the Minister is squeezing and taking the time of others. So I am protesting this and I propose that the College consider this and decide on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Rupar, I do not think that you were correct in at least one part of your implementation. We always do this agenda item until the end. The ministers always answered our questions. The three ministers are excused to be absent; all others are present at the time of their arrival and answer the question. It is true that the questions sent are late in the night, but the Members here are given answers to our questions. If the Minister is not here and the Member declares, the next meeting shall receive an oral answer to the question. The absent minister of this culture is excused. You will be able to say that you want an answer at the next meeting or that you will be satisfied with the written answer and will serve your voting body with it. Please don't delay. There are still many questions before us today. Mrs Majda Zupan will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go, Mrs. Majda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister of Health! Last month, I addressed to you the question of the cell case of pathological retardation. No patients with a name and surname have been known at the time. In October, Mrs Jasna Pungeršek died of cancer, who waited five months for the result of a cystological examination of tissue in this same hospital. Because of it and because of more than 300 cancer patients who have never received a test of their disease, let alone treatment, I cannot and must not be silent as if nothing had happened. Health care is a diversified system with a whole range of problems, with an extremely important confidence in the supervision that Parliament has enacted decades ago, and despite its mistakes, nothing has changed. Doctors monitor each other at all levels. They do not even perform many of the statutory internal controls provided for, nor do they require reports. Every doctor in the licensing period should be professionally supervised, but because there is no money, they cannot provide this in the medical room. However, administrative controls are usually carried out only after the media have pointed out errors. I have no doubt that they do not work professionally in our hospitals, but the system must be such that the expertise is present in a long chain of actions and events and that the weakest article is timely and eliminated. Dear Minister: When will you take care of professionalism at all levels and thus ensure proper supervision and protection of patients? Does the reform that you are preparing involve independent control at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Keber, please. Mrs. Majda, can you turn off the microphone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, in our country, with all the reasoned comments that I have also heard from you, there is a relatively highly developed system that provides continuous professional growth of Slovenian health at formal or informal level. We have a lot of evidence for that. After all, we have evidence on the case of part -, partial, individual, spectacular success of Slovenian health care, and we also have evidence at the level of health indicators we publish. On our social product system, I think we can be proud of it. Moreover, this system is undoubtedly the most comparable in this country to care for continuous own education. We have a year in health care -- actually, it's hard to count. Last time they counted, we listed at least 400 different educations only at home and many, at least 100 or more education abroad, 14-day doctoral education and slightly shorter health workers. Thus, the system exists, including control, for which it is right that it is first among the operators themselves and is called internal control. We have clinics that take care of the doctrine. In recent years, we have established a dual management of institutions, both professional and business. Each institution must submit an expert report annually in addition to its financial report. And in the end, we also have a united view of the development of professions. These are extended professional colleges that look to the future in a developmental way. Of course, your question is, what to do when this mistake takes place on an individual occasion. We have this time of marriage - what we have, I can say, we follow it. It would be impossible and there is nowhere in the world for every doctor to be supervised professionally within four or five years. This is simply not feasible, even on time, through the time factor of supervisors, but only to be financially feasible. We therefore tend to identify weaknesses in the system through this internal, internal control and through some of the data we have and collect at aggregate level. For example, where there are waiting times, where dissatisfaction builds, where there is something else that might indicate that the system is not working. Sometimes we reach out in the right way. Our limitations are well known, but despite all of this, the Medical Chamber, through an attempt at random selection, chooses doctors. When certain data on possible disadvantages are aggregated, we send targeted or targeted control decisions, e.g. This is the financial supervision of the health insurance institution, which, for example, reveals a case of poor practice, such as over-prescription and professionally unfounded prescription of medicines. The Ministry of Health only has administrative supervision. Of course, within this administrative supervision, it can also cover some professional issues in special cases. In the future, with reform, we plan to increase the scope of control in every way. We must and can say peacefully that the so-called professional supervision of marriage is poorly resolved when it is necessary to include in the professional work, not the individual under the supervision of the individual chamber, but when it is necessary to include in the supervision, the work in the department and this professional work, the professional work of the team. In this area, we will make meaningful use of the solutions that other countries have in future legislation. Let me mention again what I have already mentioned today, in parallel with this, we are developing quality indicators of work. Reform brings comparisons between institutions, brings results of treatment that will be available to the public, and citizens will at least learn at aggregate level which are better and which are perhaps slightly less than good institutions and will also be able to decide after this salary on their meaningful pressure to improve their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan, you want to complete your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. You say ourselves that we can be proud of the system, but you run the system, and if it has not worked, as it has determined administrative control, we should respond as other ministers have in similar cases responded. An objective responsibility lies with the one who leads. Are all these patients less important than, for example, celovska rob or beaten by police associates Smolnikar? When will you step down, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u145	I have many answers to this question, honourable Member. There's no blinding in the medical system. There are hundreds of thousands of contacts between healthcare professionals and patients every year, up to tens of millions. On the inside, even if we had predicted the slightest possible error, irregularity, a bad relationship, they would probably have been listed at the annual level for more than ten thousand, perhaps more. That's how the world reports are. The responsibility of an individual in such a system can be exercised through what you call objective responsibility, in such a way that each individual minister has to step down - once a week - and that we can replace the minister constantly. Or to decide - of course, it is decided by others, not by a specific minister - when his responsibility is so great that he must be called to account. Alone by revealing, by trying to influence and by proving that the system is improving. Unfortunately, we do not have time to show you, honourable Members or the public success in the field of health care, but on a new and new basis we are obliged - and so it is - to respond to the weakness of this system. When it's what I personally think I'm responsible for, I'll judge for myself. When the others I answer to think so, they will call me to account.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec will ask two questions, namely, the Transport Minister and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers! I am sending a question to the Minister for Transport, Mr Jakob Preseknik. In particular, with regard to the announced terminations of stops: intercity of trains at the station in Lithuania by the Slovenian Railways, which are preparing, or together with the Railway Agency, a proposal for a new timetable. Lithium is the third largest station in Slovenia, according to the number of passengers. From this point of view, it is not understandable that when drawing up draft new timetables, it is considered to reduce the number of trains at the Lithuanian station and other stations against Ljubljana, because in fact in this area half of the active working population is dependent on life and in connection with Ljubljana. From this point of view, the mayors of both municipalities of Lithuania and Šmartno pri Lithija addressed several institutions on 13 November, including the Ministry of Transport, Mr Minister, to a protest for the announced abolition. At that time, a response came from the Slovenian Railways, on November 17th, where they found that two trains only made mistakes and still persisted in abolishing four stops. Especially in the essential points that are necessary for the entry of passengers and also after they can come to their place of work in Ljubljana and elsewhere. In fact, I would like to point out that Lithuania is already poorly linked to the capital, that there is still some part of the unresolved traffic issues along the main road, and that such termination or attempted termination of train stops at the station or station of Lithuania and other stations are further burdening the additional road on which we are also witnessing many fatal accidents in traffic accidents, so we expect you, Mr Minister, to take action in this case. We ask: Have you taken action yet, and what will be the solutions to prevent the predicted drastic cessation of train stops at Lithium Station? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Rokavec. It is a matter of determining the timetable for each season, in accordance with Article 21 of the Rail Transport Act, where it is stipulated that the timetable is determined by the Railway Agency on the basis of an expert proposal or the professional criteria for holding Slovenian Railways. In a specific case, I agree with you that the railway station of Lithuania is one of the most frequent stations to drive from this station and to this station a large number of people to work and to school, especially in Ljubljana. On the other hand, there is, of course, one of the reasons why, or one of the criteria, driving schedules or individual stops are determined in individual locations. They shall also determine that, as a rule, higher-class trains do not stop at stations where suburban rail traffic is organised, in the event that a lower category train is available at that time or a few minutes earlier or later. Just in case you asked me what we did. We have withdrawn this letter or this initiative, and I consider your question, above all, as an initiative, from the Railway Agency, which will draw up or decide on its proposal. In one of the following days, a so-called driving order conference is also envisaged by all decision makers. These are Slovenian railways and the agency. They will draw up a final proposal. Once again, I, too, believe that this is primarily an initiative on your part.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, this can indeed be an additional initiative on our part, but at the same time the question and in particular the appeal that, as Minister, who is also in charge in this field of rail transport, you will take the view that this drastic reduction in stops at this station will not take place. Passengers do not care if Lithium is in the so-called internal transport sector, they want to have the possibility of timely and sufficient trains that will have a stop at the railway station in Lithuania to be able to use them for their daily transport. I must point out that it is a local community and citizens are also bitter here. If there is also no obedience from the state, then I can predict here that the local community will try or will not be able to deter the demands of some citizens for drastic actions, including some protests. In the middle of Slovenia, we cannot afford any place or even passengers from that area to be provided with more or less suitable conditions for them to be brought to another place. We, for example, don't care why InterCity trains can stop in Zagorje, Rippers, Wall Bridge, etc. All we are interested in is the need to ensure the appropriate frequency and stopping of trains in Lithuania. I think there have been too many concessions in the past. We expect you, as the secretary of the department, to take your stand for this and try to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u153	I think you got the wrong information because it's not a mass phenomenon. The point is that according to your information provided by you or by the congregations, I apologize, it is six lines or six trains, of which three lines are not taken into account because the number of passengers is such that, of course, the termination of the stoppage is not taken into account. Three more lines are questionable. I don't know exactly what time it is. I have train numbers, which are passenger numbers, which is 3, 4 and 5 passengers coming in and out of the stations. And in this case it takes about 15 to 20 minutes before or after the local train of the lower category. I reiterate that all these matters will be reviewed by the relevant Working Party within the framework of the Railway Agency or at the coordination meeting will also set a timetable for the next winter period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Rokavec, you have another question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs about the issue of so-called bombers. These are the people who were the victims of bombings in various cities in Slovenia in 1941/45. At the time of the changes made to date and the completion of the law on victims of war violence, there have been many times in this house of speech how the status of these persons would be resolved in an appropriate manner. Of course not. Two years ago, the Secretary of State in your department assured you that in the latest amendment to this law on victims of war, you would be trying to resolve this issue in a suitable manner in the area of bombers, or those who had to do so because of these bombings in II. World War II to flee to another area and, as a result, become victims or refugees. In other cases, victims of war-violence are entitled to the status of victims of war-violence and, of course, those persons are not. I wonder, ‘ Does the competent ministry think about solving this issue? If he thinks in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u157	This issue has been, as you have said, repeatedly in Parliament. Let me remind you that, in fact, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on victims of war violence has already addressed this initiative, which you have already set up at the time, and rejected. From our point of view, from the Ministry, it is difficult to prepare a certain initiative if it is the intention of the national assembly not to include it in the law on victims of war violence. In any event, the definition of a victim of war violence is sufficiently clearly defined in Article 1 of the War Violence Victims Act, where, after the then interpretation of the legislator, that is to say, the National Assembly, it has been determined that so-called bombers do not belong to the Law on Victims of War Violence. In any case, it is always possible and we have always been open to such initiatives if such an initiative will be taken by a Member or a group of Members and other stakeholders to re-examine this issue and in some way determine whether it is a victim of war here or if it is a possible injury or whatever, so that the question can then also be adequately defined and then also a possible legal basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you, Minister for Answers. Mr. Rokavec, would you like another question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. This time, I once again take the initiative to re-examine this issue. The fact is, I personally have the documents of the District Commissions for the assessment of war damage, the then war damage caused to these people. Legitimate institutions then found this damage that was caused or that these people had to flee to another area. Of course, the state cannot solve this problem. Nevertheless, I would ask that this issue be reconsidered. If, at this point, the State is thinking in the case of a second category that has not exercised any rights yet, there is only a question of decisions by the Constitutional Court, such as the issue of deleted ones, where the question may be that this country will have to cut deep in its pocket if it adopts such a law, then I believe that it is even more appropriate and more justified for these people to come to their right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you. One more word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u161	We didn't get along so well. I do not deny the possibility of taking initiatives; I simply replied that at the time when the law or the amendment of the law on victims of war violence was being discussed, it was the will of the national assembly. If a new Member's initiative is now given, we will respect it and re-examine these issues, and we do not deny any possibility, opportunity or intention of a Member, and so on, to resolve this problem. It's a question of where to locate it. At that time, once again, the National Assembly considered that the law on victims of war violence was not a city that would define such a type of compensation or such a type of right. Certainly, if this is given as an initiative, we will examine it and get to know Members and, of course, the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u162	Thank you, Minister. Ms Sonja Areh Lavrič is next in line for questions. Question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! I am asking the Minister of Health, Mr Kebra, and the Minister for Labour, Mr Dimovski, even though the question concerns several departments. The fact is, even state services have contributed to an affair called Black Wood. The inspection shall endeavour to close the said facility, the owner shall not take into account the decisions issued. Ministry of Labour officials claim that this hotel is not on their list of nursing or housing homes for the elderly. Why, then, did social work centers send elderly people to a hotel that did not have adequate permits despite their conduct? Statements by the Ministry of Labour claiming that the owner applied for a second public tender to obtain a concession for the provision of institutional protection services in nursing homes shall also be excluded. The owner denies it. It is unacceptable that Minister Dimovski has transferred all responsibility in this matter to the Secretary of State. Who's responsible? Why is the minister acting like this? In our view, it has clearly demonstrated involvement and, by silence, is likely to protect the wider interests of some political options. On the other hand, the Clinical Center under the auspices of the Minister of Health Black Wood is included on the official list of homes for the elderly. Although they received information from the hotel that they did not have a concession with the State, they were supposed to silence the fact that the operating licence was not in order. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Health: How does the Ministry control the functioning of the home for the elderly, the health care in them and the professional work of the hospital staff? How is it possible that the Ministry of Health was informed of the events only after several years of operation in November. Why was there no supervision by the competent authority? How can this complex work, especially when we are talking about one of the most powerless groups of people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you. The question is addressed to the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Minister for Health. Mr. Vlado Dimovski, I'd like to give you my word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Members for this question, especially so that we can answer some of the questions she has asked here. In any case, it is important that I immediately say that, in the areas of the Ministry, it is an area to say so, so the Secretary of State, who also knew the most about the matter, in some way also tried to explain how and in what case certain things were happening. Let me begin by saying that we are always concerned about such a question and that in such cases, if we are familiar with it and have a certain view, we are also trying to respond in accordance with the powers and responsibilities we have. Let me be specific about this question when it comes to this hotel, that in no case was it the institutional protection of the elderly. This unit acted as a kind of hotel because it declared itself a hotel for the elderly, but it also did not have the necessary documentation or work permit. Even less, he had any concession or permit from the Ministry of Labour. We have explained several times, and in various cases, that there has been and how there have been questions about how to obtain concessions. We answered that in a way. I repeat that the Ministry has not granted any concession or authorisation to carry out any institutional protection of the elderly. In any event, this hotel was not on any list drawn up by the Ministry of Labour each year, and on this list are all state homes, all concessional homes, and also the homes that are allowed. There was no such thing as a hotel. Therefore, the Ministry has in no case provided or allowed centres or any other institution, at least not with the knowledge of the Ministry, to travel individuals to this hotel. However, since it is a broader spectrum of questions, let me add this to the fact that individuals came to this hotel on their own initiative or of their own free will. This is where the family cooperated. That's actually how it was their will here. As for the second question to answer, of course, what I said was that there were no permits, it turns out that the work was done in black. That is why many inspections have been carried out. According to our records, almost 18 different inspections were carried out from various inspection services. In the area of market inspections, there were essentially most checks, then work inspections, health inspections and others. In fact, it also happened that the so-called manager of this unit also changed the status of the natural person and then of the s.p. Do d.o.o. And it's always been a process. In this case, the State acted primarily through inspection services by trying to stop such a black operation. However, let me say that, according to the market inspector, the Inspector's Inspector's Inspection Act does not authorize sealing, disconnection, distribution of electricity, water, gas and communications when people are in the facility. So the execution was stopped in this sense because there were people in the facility. It must be said, however, that other services, the police, are also in control. This is how we are waiting for the results of these reviews. Let me put it this way: there have also been a number of reports to the judge of the offence. At this point, however, it can be found that, in fact, only once, the guilty judge issued a decision and then ordered a reminder to the administrator of that unit. In this respect, there has been a whole series of checks that can in fact be said to have been carried out primarily by the market inspector. As far as these elements are concerned, I would say this, but otherwise the Minister of Health may, for that part, relate to health.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When looking for health services for a citizen to be released from the hospital, of course, they are not only looking for the homes of older citizens. After all, it is checked that accommodation is possible only in the patient’s own home. And actually that's the basic concept. Whether we can install it in our own home and with appropriate support activities, health care can be provided at home. This means that we, too, can forgive very serious, incurable patients at home if this care is provided together in combination with the care of the family and the health care service. There are, of course, other forms of accommodation, and this is not just accommodation in the home of older citizens. We can predict and there's nothing unacceptable about a hotel. Or, I'd rather say, because it's a hotel, it might sound one way too nice, the accommodation of those who are no longer able to take care of themselves, but in the context of some organised service that is established and cared for by their daily activities, and for example for food, they could do everything on their own. At this point, however, it is necessary to say that the treatment area is taken care of. Salutation for such a citizen, who either lives in his own home, who lives in a hotel that lives in a residential center or anywhere else, always covers the health care home where this institution, which exists, is gravitated. And even in this case, we have found that all these caregivers had their own chosen doctor. Indeed, some did not, according to the current state of affairs, have not had a selected physician of 10, 15 caregivers, which is a fluctuation to be expected. At any given time, some caregivers do not yet provide their doctor’s choice. So if you ask who cared or who should care about the proper implementation of healthcare in such an institution, which, of course, worked in black as an additive, I can answer either the health care home or its health care professionals, or perhaps the doctor concessionaire, if a doctor concessionaire was chosen in this case. It is therefore not unusual for us to have been informed as a ministry only when the suspicion of a criminal event occurred in this house, a criminal event which may have been linked to the improper conduct of a medical procedure. That's why we're studying this part. Here, too, there is an incredible possibility that doctors or doctors have exceeded what is known by the doctrine to be carried out within, let me repeat, the limits of treatment and home care. On this side, I'd say, or finish the following. Even in the future, we are not likely to block the existence of institutions that, in the absence of institutions generally known to protect old, powerless people, are likely to exist, but the law must be respected. Black work cannot be done, but the health of these citizens must always be taken care of at the basic level by the healthcare home or by doctors in the nagravitation area. And everything seems to have been taken care of. However, we are examining whether, in the specific cases that we are going to examine, they have exceeded their powers or have failed to take appropriate action. It's just another area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answers? Here you go, Mrs. Areh Lavrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Nevertheless, I would have another additional question for the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health. After the affair, both ministries immediately found room for all residents of the Black Forest, who were to be moved within a week if they wanted to. I ask the Minister of Health: How did they manage to find such a large number of vacant cities in such a short time, when, above all, nursing homes were to be held for several years? Why did the ministry, in cooperation with other competent services, not act before, but allow for the neglect and alleged death of many elderly people? How can a person in Slovenia who does not have adequate permits, inadequate staff, charge his services in Slovenia, much more than everyone else who is suitable for this activity? In any event, there are still more questions that remain open, which we expect from the competent ministries are comprehensive and extensive written explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u171	We will certainly send you, if you like, very comprehensive reports. After all, as regards the protection of the elderly, the report on the implementation of the national programme for the protection of the elderly by 2005 is very, very clear. Let me just say briefly what all the efforts we are currently making in the field of the protection of the elderly are. In Slovenia there are about 13,000 beds and several beds in the homes of the elderly. What the state controls in some way is state homes, concessional homes and licensed homes. Let me just tell you how in recent years we have tried to resolve the crisis: state homes, five new state houses, and seven home with concessions. It's almost 2,000 new cities, and if you look at it, it's almost 20% of the increased capacity. This must have been one great effort that was made. In addition, the concept of home aid also arose. I don't know if you're aware, you're probably starting to encourage so-called home aid in all Slovene municipalities. It has been found that many elderly people want to stay home, which is understandable. In fact, between 4 and 5% of the elderly or older citizens want to go to their homes. Help at home and other forms of assistance seem to us to be the kind of direction that is also appropriate, thus providing a whole range of older citizens with help at home. This is also done by supporting employment, subsidising employment, helping municipalities, etc., so that, of course, the individual or individual who wants it, of course, at home also provides adequate social services or through patronage services, then also health services. Let me give you an example of how individual homes in individual regions no longer record waiting periods. A concrete example is Celje, precisely because we have increased capacity in recent years and we are also increasing it by new concessions and by upgrading the houses currently in construction. Clearly, however, capacity-focusing, capacity-building in the future also needs to be directed in this direction, in a way, to provide other forms, the end of the day-care centre and so on. Since the problem is very wide, we will answer this question very specifically and also with numbers, so that I certainly share my concern with you and, of course, with everyone else, that this is a problem that we have to deal with in society and in some way solve it properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Minister Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u173	Let me have a few words. Care and treatment at home in many countries is one of the goals they just want to achieve. Very rare are the countries that have provided additional money with special insurance for this time period of our lives, but this is actually the case. Care and treatment is something to be done in nursing homes, covering about 6% of citizens over 65 years of age. At the same time, there is another group, a larger group of citizens, who, of course, never in life or only in the end want this home. And here in the future, and not only in the future, but we have been thinking for several years now, and also in the health reform, and also in the Ministry of Labour, we are thinking in what way, of course, we are also relatively painless for the community that will have to pay for it, by public means, to bring in additional opportunities. Our view is that this moment for the health care of older people is better taken care of in the homes of older citizens and in institutions that have a concentrated approach to such work than at our homes or at the homes of those individuals. Specifically your question, how did we get the space? We have sought space for six or eight persons, on whom a medical examination at this time has shown that they need a few days of observation, perhaps treatment in hospitals. But you need to know that at the same time, a number of citizens, some who in this Blackwood institution reject treatment, don't like hospital, don't like home for older citizens. We've already got some cases in Black Wood. And then where they are, we have to take care of them. It is clear that we can understand that in the light of the story that opened up when all citizens and even caregivers were informed that it was a matter of black work, that we were offering them some other forms, at least temporary assistance made it clear that it was easier to stay in hospitals for a few days. But you need to know that as far as treatment is concerned, this is a solution for a few days, maybe for a few weeks, or else these citizens are back at the doors of the institutions that protect them for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Levič will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's a nice greeting to all the ministers present. Question for Mr. Bizjak, Minister of Justice. Judicial backlogs, an ineffective judiciary, have apparently become a constant in Slovenia. This area of accession is also highlighted by the European Union for all the years, and I believe that it is high time for a thorough and effective reform of justice not only because of Europe, but mainly because of Slovenian citizens, since almost everyone on their own has already experienced the success of the Slovenian judicial system. We can read about this success almost every day in the daily press, when one after another the most violent cases fall. Instead of reducing judicial backlogs, they are steadily increasing, and I am interested in the following: When will you reexamine whether all courts are really needed and whether the new systematization of both the judge and the judicial staff is needed? I believe that the reorganisation of the courts was poorly prepared in 1995, as by then the basic courts, which consisted of individual units, had fallen to district and district courts. The fundamental courts were flexible as it was possible to deploy between units. Situations have been excluded where an individual court cannot operate because of maternity or hospital absences. All cases were dealt with in all units and therefore the burden of the judges with the files was evenly distributed. The question remains, how many smaller district courts, with three or less judges, are effective and even necessary? In Slovenia we have two first-degree courts, which in itself creates new backlogs with migration powers, for example, from district court to district court and vice versa. The regionalisation did not provide for a future burden on the courts with the files and thus for the systematisation of judicial posts and posts of judicial staff, so the courts are already at large in very different situations. I believe that the courts are sufficient or even too many, but only inadequately distributed. It follows that in certain courts judges do not have sufficient files to reach the standard, while in others the parties are waiting for the first main hearing after several years. Question: "How do you plan to address enforcement problems?" The most problematic future executions are in the District Courts. For all the years after reorganisation, appropriate solutions are being sought, but not successful, as the backlogs are the most numerous and are still growing. Are all the legal remedies available to the debtor today really necessary? I also believe that the executors are still under-effective, especially given the cost of their work. There is also a questionable point in the work of the enforcement judge, because it is too expensive, given the relative simplicity of the performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u177	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, Members and Members of Parliament. The question stems from the fact that we have been dealing in court with the issue of ensuring an ongoing trial, and of course not since yesterday, but, in fact, since the beginning of my work in this ministry. This is becoming and has been a priority all the time, requiring a number of measures. As early as 2001, in April, an analysis of the reasons for the delay was carried out with the proposals for measures. In the meantime, these measures have practically all been implemented. They have gone in different directions, from legislation, where, in particular, there has been a number of legislation on improving the situation in the judiciary and overcoming the backlogs of laws adopted, if some measures are mentioned: greater possibilities for the mobility of judges, both in relation to the abolition of judicial backlogs, in relation to the prevention of those delays, including, say, the institute of inter-ministerial judges, this type, which is actually supposed to address some of the consequences, I will say, in this part of the not entirely premeditated reform of 1995. On the other hand, it is also about providing other conditions for ongoing judicial decision-making, from places where I think it has been quite done, to more appropriate systemisation in existing courts as well as equipment and so on. Our position is, until the situation in the courts is normalised, there is no condition for any new reform of the judiciary, because, in fact, a new reform would, if it had started some two years ago, mean that we are merely delaying the achievement of that key objective, which means deciding at a reasonable time in all courts. In the meantime, we have already reached more than half a path, so most courts, at least the more important matters, decide within a reasonable time frame, act relatively liquid, significantly reduces the number of more important cases, pending more important cases. The legal backlog is decreasing, as set out in Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, and the number of outstanding bookcases has been decreasing lately. And it will certainly continue to decline, especially as the land book is largely, well over 80 percent, informed. Thus, in recent times, there has been one key problem with the high number of pending cases and their increase in enforcement. Last year, about a year ago, a law was passed to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and insurance, which addressed those shortcomings that we could have seen in the law in force since 1999. We have already decided almost two months ago to undertake a thorough analysis of the reasons for the situation of enforcement as it is, and to prepare proposals for measures to improve the situation. In short, I'm counting on us to identify those key issues. Of course, this raises questions as to whether the courts immediately dismiss the cases to the enforcement authorities, whether it is already the issue of allowing enforcement, whether it is the problem of assigning enforcement cases or whether the problem is on the part of the perpetrator, and what are the problems that hinder this work. In a very short time, we expect a working group composed of judges and other experts outside the Ministry to come up with appropriate proposals for action. I'm counting on us to start executing them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you very much. You want the minister to complete the answer. Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Actually, I have two short questions, I just couldn't say it sooner. I wonder: Why are the most delays in the district courts, and in what way do you intend to resolve the situation now, if we know that the District Court is dealing with the most challenging cases? In view of the fact that for eight years there has been a limit between district and district jurisdiction in civil and indemnity matters of two million Slovenian Tolars, it is not clear why you have not changed these limits. This is precisely why all district courts are currently drowning behind bars in the area of legal matters. However, the situation is likely to deteriorate further with the adoption of the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, when judicial jurisdiction passes the decision on contacts, maintenance and similar matters, as previously decided by social work centres, and all maintenance cases from district courts. Therefore, the number of cases in the district courts can be expected to increase to thousands. In addition, there is a question of the professional competence of judges in the areas mentioned above. What will happen to the professional staff at the social work centres that have done these jobs so far? The issue of the way, the approach of a judge or a social worker seems to me at the same time to the places where this child, if you can say so, feels better: either in the courtrooms or in the centres for social work. Finally, when can we finally expect a new law on criminal procedure, the CAP? A number of changes to the law, or a patchwork of the law on criminal proceedings, have led to the fact that this procedure is completely ineffective and more difficult criminal matters are almost impossible to bring to justice. The CAP should be brand new and make it more effective, while ensuring all rights for defendants. Perhaps the closure of the investigation and the relocation of the internal affairs departments and the prosecution, of course, should be considered in the appropriate control mechanisms carried out by the court. Now the actions carried out in the investigation are politically null and void at the main hearing, for which time is six months, but also more, investigations, completely lost and unnecessary. However, the participants in the proceedings are justifiably dissatisfied, as they must make at least three statements of the same nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you. For a little while. He doesn't think the county courts are the most burdened with work. On the contrary, there have been many more problems in the District Courts from the First Instance Courts, and there are still key problems. Let's say those problems, those courts where with the measures so far, we see definitive solutions to the problem. This is in particular the District Court in Ljubljana, partly the Regional Court in Maribor and Murski Sobota, where there are programmes to remedy the backlogs, which are also financially evaluated. For Ljubljana, I think it is no longer disputed that the budget for next year provides everything that is necessary for this programme to be implemented. We will also try to provide the necessary funds for the remaining critical courts of this type. The border, that's two million tolars for justice's sake, has been for a very long time. We have been monitoring this, but the decline in judicial cases in the District Courts is not so great that in this situation, when at least all these courts are not yet fully on track, they change this border. We'll probably do it, maybe the first time we change the Law on Courts, which is mainly in preparation. But it hasn't been done yet, the data hasn't gone that way. Even the opposite. The decline was almost greater for work on criminal matters in the district courts than for the justice courts. With regard to the professional competence of the judges in family matters, I believe that this can be done through appropriate training. You know that the main purpose of bringing certain cases to court in order to ensure, I would say, impartial decision-making, and that in these very sensitive cases there is actually someone who is not otherwise involved, let's say with professional, social and social security work involved in the same matters, so that there is a judge here who is not otherwise involved in the case and in this way can be much more impartial and in this way also a more credible decision. I am confident that training for this area of work will be successful and that the courts will be able to handle these cases. I can't tell you what it's gonna be like to have people stay at social work centres. We are preparing a new law on a case-by-case basis in a way that more research has already been done so that the text can also be written in the coming year. However, the changes so far have taken a sharp turn in this direction to prepare as many steps as possible for the future concept as possible, including with regard to the powers the police have since the last novel we have implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I am giving you or the College of the National Assembly an initiative to examine the question of the abuse of the Institute of Procedural Affairs or procedural notes, as allowed by a fellow Member just as soon as it was over, because he did not sign up to the word, took his 5 minutes. However, nothing has happened to justify such a procedure or reference to a procedure. He also talked about some important questions, and then he left. So much so that, of course, such things wouldn't happen because he stole this time at the time of the TV broadcast and for so much he deprived the others. Now to the question that I will ask the Minister of Transport, Mr President. It has been a year since the International Convention for the Protection of Human Life at Sea, so-called Solas, was signed in London in 1974 and Slovenia has also adopted a new chapter of this Convention and the International Code on the Protection of Ships and Ports against Terrorist Acts. Terrorism is unfortunately a trend phenomenon and, of course, we must respond accordingly. It was also stated at that time that all signatory countries should inform the International Maritime Organisation of the implementation of the provisions of this Code by 1 July of the following year, that is, 2004. In order to fulfil its obligations, Slovenia must ratify both instruments and adopt appropriate legislation. I know that the Maritime Administration has prepared a draft of such a law bearing the title: the Ships and Ports Protection Act. I'm asking, when is he going to graze the government and land on our bench? As warned by those who are supposed to enforce this law, there is a bit of a rush. The Ministry of Transport has been informed about this since spring, once in April, but some accelerated activities have not been noticed, they say. At the same time, they point out that the untimely enforcement of this law could have unpleasant consequences for Luca Koper. Why? Because all ships departing from our ports would be subject to stricter control by those countries that would have already implemented those provisions. The likely consequence would be for shippers to avoid our port and for freight forwarders to divert goods elsewhere. I said, "What's up with that?" Can we and Mr. Minister calm down that the activities are going on and the marriage will soon be on our benches, for we are only seven months ahead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you so much for asking. You yourself have already mentioned when this matter was adopted at this international maritime organisation in London and what this new security code provides, where the objectives of this Code and the functional and security requirements to achieve these objectives are also set. I will say that the preparation of this legal act takes place, and I cannot at this time answer you exactly when it will be on the table. In any case, I assure you that this law will be or will be in time. At the same time, the European Union is also in the process of adopting an appropriate safety regulation on both ships and port security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u187	Well, I'm calm. I expect that after the new year we will finally see an act that will enter into the procedure, because preparations for the implementation of this law alone are important and, of course, I repeat that on 1 July 2004 it is only seven months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister for Information Society and the Secretary-General of the Government questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! On 19 January 2003, a referendum was held on the return of funds invested in the construction of the telephone network. So it's been almost a year. Since then, we have not heard of any government activity, how and when the government intends to implement it. The only consequence that we have somehow seen is that the government is now working to prevent referendums from going forward through constitutional changes. Therefore, I would like to recall that at the referendum, the question and determination with the plebiscite majority of Slovenian voters who participated in the referendum was that the issue of return on investments should be resolved in such a way that the amount paid under the contract representing investment in telephone centres, in inter-territorial waters and local telephone networks, is fully reimbursed in cash. I have to say, in some cases, it's 9,000 marks without interest, without everything. I ask the government: Will 150,000 beneficiaries be played again in this matter? Will the government play them? I ask the Government: Is it aware that beneficiaries are from areas most demographically and socially vulnerable? These are beneficiaries from Prekmurje, Slovenian Konjice, Podravja, Haloz, Dolenjske, Zasavja, Posavje, Upper Savineske valleys, some parts of Gorenjska, Soča and so on. It seems the government has passed all the will to privatize Telekom. We do not hear anything and it seems that the government intends to be inactive in some way for two years, so that the obligation of the referendum decision will be played out. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I would like to show, of course, that the government or the competent ministry, the Ministry of Information Society, has done certain things since the adoption of the first law. And so are the congregations. In particular, the municipalities issued municipal decrees specifying the method of drawing up the list, how to determine the proportional shares of the refund and so on. According to our information, all municipalities in which the beneficiaries of the return of investments or the municipalities themselves are beneficiaries have adopted these decisions. The Board of the Restructuring Agency also appointed the Commission referred to in Article 5 of the Act for the performance of professional and technical tasks. The Commission has also drawn up a proposal for a table showing the heights, time-period connections and geographical areas of PTSD, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The PTT organisations, the contribution of self-government stakeholders and whatever it takes. [[...]] Then, of course, there was a preliminary legislative referendum, which resulted in the composition of this table in the sense that, of course, it had moved the deadline or period of return, which was re-determined, now by time limit 6.4. 1998. The Commission has now drawn up a new table. According to our information, this table will be sent to the Ministry of Information Society by the end of this month, where we will publish it as an official document. Following this publication, a public call for applicants' applications for defences will also be published in the Official Journal, as provided for in the law. We can count on this public call to be published at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. With regard to the privatisation of Telekom, since return on investments is of course related to the privatisation of Telekom, I have already made public several times in this national assembly, as well as in the media and elsewhere, that, given the situation on the telecommunications market in 2003, 2004 privatisation, partial privatisation of Telekom will not take place, simply for reasons related to the prices on the telecommunications market. These prices are still such that they would force us to sell Telekom if we had to sell for it alone, that is, for the sale of Telekom instead of selling Telekom. And thus, of course, damage to state property. As long as I'm in charge of this ministry, I'm not going to go for a privatisation that would mean damage to state property. Of course, the contributions of beneficiaries are protected because they are translated into, now into, and then into, the euro, and their value is assured and they will receive the deposits back when the privatisation takes place. We expect the telecommunications market to recover again in 2005 and beyond. At least this is what the forecasts of those who deal with this market show. Then we will also approach the partial privatisation of Telekom, from which investments will also come back. At the same time, I would also like to reject those Members' beliefs that the government wants to play the law, that it wants to play the referendum and that it actually wants to play this return on investments in some way through the non-privatisation of Telekom. No, no, no. We don't want that. The government will fulfil its commitment from the referendum, but of course it cannot meet it in a way that actually sells part of Telekom at the price that we consider to be worth or worth selling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you very much. You want the minister to complete the answer. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I got an answer in style to precise questions, and the government did certain things and set up a commission. I think the government has enough institutions and bodies to start implementing this law. It established the Commission in accordance with the postponement of the matter. As the rule is known. I don't know if the government has any moral obligation to have at least some prelude to these people who can't train their children who could spend a year teaching them a child or paying for it. On the other hand, if he can pay billions of awards for managers in Elan, in the Maribor Vehicle Factory, he can't stop those contracts. But there's no way for these people to do anything. Of course, I am not satisfied with such an answer. I mean, and I'm sure the voters watching us aren't happy either. Yesterday in Zagreb, voters punished actors from the puppet theater and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u194	Mr. Jerovšek. Please. Complementing the answer is your right.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u195	I'm afraid they will, too. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u196	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u197	When invited to the puppet theatre, it was slowly overlooked in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you very much. You have announced another question, Mr Jerovšek, to the Secretary-General of the Government. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary, a supplement to your answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u199	Certainly, if I may, honourable Vice-President, honourable Member, I would like to stress once again that the government is working within its powers and is doing everything it takes to get the law out. Many technical tasks are needed, a public call, and then, of course, the evaluation of these applications and so on. So it's not true that the government doesn't work. The government is implementing the law. But as for the second part of your question, I would say that, of course, he led you into a lot of populist waters, even I could say, a relatively cheap demagogy that you can't buy voters to. Voters will already know who they will give their voice to and to whom they will not, which politicians will be able to judge that they are fit and fit for the country as well as for them. It is certainly an important money that people will get back, but it certainly cannot depend on their social destiny or on their fate if only this money is their destiny. Therefore, the government has a number of other actions and actions, in the area of development policy, regional policies which, of course, can mean significantly more than just the reimbursement of these investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, question to the Secretary-General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u201	We have just heard that those poor people would be harmed by this money, and we could not fix any social issues. Now I ask the Secretary-General other questions. Some time ago, with regard to the contract for the additional work of Master Zoran Kovac, at a rate of 270 000 tolars per month, information was received to the public for the Ministry of Agriculture that such contracts by government officials and employees are very common. In the media's statements, Mr Secretary-General of the Government, who normally expressed the government's, official positions of Minister Booth and the competent ministries, pointed out that the conclusion of such contracts is not disputed that this is in line with the government's policy that such contracts are in the state administration of a few hundred. You claim this despite a different opinion of the Institute of Public Administration that it is a disputed conclusion of contracts. I'm asking: Is this really a very widespread way of earning extra money in government? Another time. How many such contracts are concluded in the public administration, how much is the total amount of money paid under these contracts per month? I'm asking for information on how much money this is. Is it true that government officials and employees do most of the contractual work within regular working hours and are thus paid twice? When was the government instructed to pay additional civil servants in this way? Are government officials and civil servants limited to competitive clauses as part of their work and duties? If not, please explain: Why does the government not enforce competitive clauses in the conclusion of working relationships or in the conclusion of individual contracts? Since it is illegal money laundering, in my opinion, and it is tax money, please provide detailed information on the number of these contracts and the amount of these funds that go under these contracts.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirko Bandelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I will try to answer as much as I can of course answer this question, because the question, however, does not fall within the scope of my obligations and I must also say that such central records, which would regulate it, neither did the previous or current legislation. But I can say that since the question is so very flat-rate, the answer will be about that. Not every contract that has been concluded is in itself illegal. I must also say that I have never spoken before, and what you have just said is a pure fabrication to say something about the hundreds, hundreds of such contracts, and that these are legal. For, of course, you can judge contracts only when you see them, and judge them according to the law in force. That is why, of course, I cannot make a comparison, nor can I judge the legality of a contract which, I do not know, is concluded or is only left to negotiate a contract with Mr Kovac. I can only say that the new labour law of 1. 1. 2003 no longer knows the contracts of work and in this way they are not available. However, when I tried to find out from the ministries that similar contracts on work had previously been concluded, I must say that I have not been able to track any such contract, in fact, the ministries could say that they contract with the staff of other ministries within the field, where constitutional freedom to scientific, artistic, educational and similar participation is ensured. But there are no other contracts. I must also state that I do not know the case where civil servants, in particular officials, would be paid twice for the same job, although it is true that a number of jobs, in particular those employed in the cabinets, work far beyond their full-time work without receiving any payment. And also when you talk about competitive clauses. Competitive clauses in this sense, as is known by the Company Act, as well as a set of rules in the field of competition protection or industrial and intellectual property, we do not know about employment in national programmes. But we know the bans. But there are many of them, and of course they are being realized. For if we were to talk about a competitive clause in the way you explained it, we should also give workers adequate compensation for such prohibitions. That's just not what it is. In short, your fear of the question is, in my opinion, completely superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u205	With that same answer, he should be satisfied. I've only taken what is strongly present in the public and I am firmly convinced that the public has a feeling for it and that he knows the cases and that such cases would not have occurred if there had not been such cases. But it is significant that your answer is that the government does not have such records, that it does not track it or try to cover it. That, therefore, within the state administration, everything, for state money, for tax money, is very easily concluded by contracts which, of course, provide some dedicated with additional profits. And I find that the government is actually rich in two ways: uncontrolled employment and multiple payments of some dedicated people.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u207	Yeah, just because you got my answer, I have to respond. My answer was quite different from yours. You haven't said a single specific case where this is supposed to be happening. I can argue that civil servants are not too paid to be paid twice for the work they are doing, that the truth is the opposite. That a lot of people aren't getting paid for the job they're doing. Of course, this does not rule out any irregularity being found anywhere. After all, this can still happen despite such good legal regulations and control systems. However, this is not a system, this is not done in accordance with the government's instructions because you asked when the government issued such a instruction earlier. There is no such instruction. And so these fears that you cite are completely fictional and are not based on real foundations.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, who is excusedly absent. So I ask you to tell us in what way you would like an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister has informed me today through his secretary that he will not be, so I have already agreed to receive an oral question at the next meeting of the National Assembly, in December. However, I have a question for the Minister concerning the functional literacy of the Slovenians and the strategy that the Government is preparing or preparing and how it intends to address this problem. Thank you very much. Oral response next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Butolen will ask the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives or ministers. In this Parliament, reports on readiness to join the European Union as well as in the professional and laity public have always assessed the situation in the Slovenian judiciary as a serious case in the consistent application of the rule of law. This is what our citizens feel, after all, who are waiting unreasonablely for certain judgments. In the past days, the Slovenian judiciary was upset by the assessment made by German judge Norman Doukoff after three and a half years in Slovenia. Our judicial authorities have reacted biliaryly. You, Mr Minister, have been asked by the Slovenian judges to fence up to these statements. Mr. Minister, at least until the day I wrote this question, I did not see your reaction to these demands, so I ask you: What is your position on this assessment? The statement particularly draws attention to Mr Doukoff's statement, which says that in Slovenia we have a proportional 50% more judges than in Germany and that our judges have better material conditions than in Germany. In doing so, Mr Doukoff has transferred the blame for the backlogs from policy to policy. Mr. Minister, how do you comment on such a statement in relation to all the judicial backlogs in our country? Reports on preparations for entry into the European Union have often also raised serious criticism of preparedness in specific areas. Our policy has always taken positive note of these criticisms and has tried to address the shortcomings. Above all, the policy on criticism has never reacted or protested. Unlike politics, our judiciary has protested with the German ambassador and with the head of the European delegation. How do you comment on such a move? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u212	Mr. Minister, Mr. Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u213	Madam Vice-President, Mr President. If I start from the end - a comment on the response to Judge Doukoff's statement - then I would say that. I think that the response, probably somewhat disproportionate to what was said and did not refer to everything that the pre-accession advisor, a senior court judge in Muenchen, Mr Doukoff, said at the press conference we had at the Ministry. Of course, this judge made several other statements directly to the individual press, giving some details of his views, but what was said at the Ministry itself at this press conference points to a somewhat broader range of issues that the judge wanted to draw attention to. So, the main topic was not simply to "read the levite to Slovenian judges". He also presented some of the successes that have been achieved in Slovenia in recent years in the context of these pre-accession projects and in general in the judiciary. At the same time, he stated that, like judges in some other countries - this part of the judiciary has been overlooked - there is too much for us judges, if I take it freely, deal with status issues and less with what needs to be done in court. Well, that's obviously indignant to our judges that they wrote a protest letter. Like you said, I didn't respond to this letter on purpose. In a few interviews with the media, I've already identified myself. However, I think first of all that the situation is that Judge Doukoff has never had the authority to speak on behalf of the Ministry, which is why I do not feel the need to distance myself from these statements if they were on behalf of the Ministry, then this would be completely different. Secondly, it would seem more appropriate for the statements referred to by the judges to be taken in their entire context and to say, constructively respond to all the findings of our pre-accession advisor after a practically three-year work in Slovenia. However, it is a fellow resident of our judges. Despite a certain language barrier, he was also able to create his own judgment on the situation with us because of his access to various materials. So much for that. Now, yes - and we have already said in our analyses - that neither the equipment of Slovenian courts nor the financial aspects are a key reason for certain problems that still appear to us in the judiciary. That, problems elsewhere - as I mentioned earlier - some things we have prepared certain measures, also Mr Doukoff said here that in modernising the procedural laws, we have managed to achieve a number of successes, that there has been a broad discussion as to the reform of the organisation of the judiciary and similar things. So these are all the areas where more will have to be done and only an indignant response to the torn part of Mr Doukoff's statement, of course, will not resolve these issues. A little more self-reflection will also be needed quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Norman has been working in Slovenia for three and a half years as a pre-accession consultant, and I suppose he did not make critical remarks to our judiciary for the first time. That's why I was so surprised by the biliary reaction of our judges. Am I wrong or has he already commented?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u216	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u217	Certainly, there have also been quite lively discussions at at at least three major conferences, which we have prepared in the context of these "twining projects". Nor were there always the same opinions among Slovenian judges, pre-accession advisors and many foreign experts who attended these conferences, which also carried out certain analyses, which were the basis for a broad discussion. Thus it was not new to differ the views of Slovenian judges and Judge Doukoff on individual issues. So it was quite a knowledge of the views of one side and the other, that is, mutual knowledge. So, Judge Doukoff was relatively clear on one of the issues, i.e. the efforts of Slovenian judges on their status issues. He may also have neglected the fact that judges are also directly involved with the Ministry through the judiciary on a number of other issues; therefore, their equipment is also involved in the development of professional solutions. That's probably what stabbed the judiciary. So in this part, if we were to try to assess the statement as a final judgment on the whole situation, then I could understand to some extent certain indignation, but if we take this statement in the entire context in which it was expressed, and if we assume this mutual rather good knowledge, then I think there was actually nothing so unexpected that this would be a reason for a very angry and bitter response. Certainly, and I say this once again, such assessments will also be made, even though they may be overly brief and, therefore, to some extent unilaterally, we still need to be taken seriously in our analysis - both the Ministry and the judiciary itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Butolen and now the question to the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Since the introduction of the current regime of local self-government in Slovenia, there has been a dilemma both in Parliament and in the public, whether one person can act as an MEP and the mayor at the same time. As the most common argument, the argument is that it is not possible to perform two functions at the same time. At the time of the introduction of the new local self-government, it was repeatedly stressed that the mayors of the new municipalities were expected to be non-professionals, so that they would continue to carry out their professions and to mayorate in their free time. Dear Mr. Secretary. I ask you: Does the Ministry of the Interior, which is currently responsible for local self-government, still advocate such a concept of non-professional entanglement? The second time I ask you or ask you for an answer: How many of the 193 Slovenian mayors are non-professional at this time? What kind of jobs are they doing? Please classify these data according to the size of municipalities, in accordance with the applicable legislation for mayors' salaries. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u221	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Ministry of the Interior has never defended the position, nor has the Slovenian government, that the mayors should perform their functions unprofessionally, but it was in the position that the municipality or the mayor should decide. This is also the case with Slovenian legislation. Of course, the question of the professional function is something other than the question of accumulation of functions. In fact, it is a question of compatibility between the mayor's and the MP's functions. Certainly the mayor and the Member - today is allowed to perform, of course not both professionally, but only one of these positions professionally. According to the legislation in preparation, the profession recommends that we introduce incompatibility. Also accumulation of one function and another function. I repeat, this question has nothing to do with professionalism or non-professionality. However, when the new law on local self-government is adopted, the government will take a definitive position on whether to introduce incompatibility. As far as your second question is concerned. I have collected numbers: of the 193 Slovenian mayors 87 manages the function unprofessionally, that is 45.1 per cent. 106 are those who perform their job professionally - or 54.9 percent. Even by the size of the congregations. In municipalities more than 100,000 people there are no more than one non-professional mayor, in the municipalities above 30 000 people, in the municipalities above 15 000 people there are 8 non-professional mayors, in the municipalities above 10 000 there are 10 000 people, over 3 000 people 20 and up to 3 000 people 27. You can see from this that in municipalities with fewer inhabitants, there are more non-professional mayors, which is also available or understandable. For another piece of information, you asked me what the profession is, or what the mayors do. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you this because we do not collect or keep records of this type of data for reasons of protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u223	Thank you for your answers, especially the last one that wasn't given. I would be interesting to discuss what kinds of professions are performed by those who are unprofessional or whose function is compatible with the mayor's function, but the data will need to be obtained elsewhere. I would ask that the Local Government Service prepare an overview of the number of municipalities in the European Community, in which we are going on 1 May next year, in particular according to their size. Data on the second level of local self-government, I know that you have already done this table once, or another ministry 1993-1994, but most of the current Members do not know them, and an objective discussion when we discuss local self-government would be useful! If possible, I would ask that this be sent to all Members of Parliament in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u225	We have already prepared some of this type of data to discuss the new law on local self-government in explanation of this law. On the basis of your question, we will make further efforts to gather as much comparative data as possible to really support this debate with data. And you will also receive this information, which I have spoken orally to you today, in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić will now ask the Minister of Transport a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. I am asking the Minister of Transport, not as an on-call culprit, but because I think he is most aware of the issue I am talking about because, as Minister of Transport, he has or must have the most reliable information for his department. Which is perfectly normal. Of course, I'm asking the government a more question, but I just have to do it through someone. The second railway track of Koper-Divic has already been said much in our mandate and in the previous ones - Members from the Continuity know this well - and so far, hand to heart, there has been nothing. So I don't want to waste time on past chronology - but what happens next. In fact, when we were informed, after the public media, that the time had finally come for Europe to help us quickly complete this important communication, such as the second track, so the news that there will be nothing out of it has cooled down that our hopes are now buried. I ask: Are all hopes truly buried, and why? In fact, here is the most important question: Why did the European Union not approve this money? Are we completely incompetent not to say incompetent, to develop the fifth corridor, and we don't care what happens to it? [[As far as Slovenia is concerned?]] If not for the other reason, I think the priority of connecting Kopra to Europe would be very important, and because of the fact that we would not be overtaken by any other port in the northern Adriatic. I'm talking about Rivera here. If it has been known for so long what the second track for Slovenia means, I wonder why formal matters in this direction have not been arranged in such a way that we do not now realize that we are to blame ourselves? Isn't that an economic suicide? Don't make any mistake. Of course, it is not the whole financial structure of the second track, but also 1/3, which Brussels would have contributed, would have meant a lot of money. The newspapers also reported that 300 billion lire had been offered in Slovenia years ago - that would be about 30 billion SIT - to modernise the fast railway between Italy and Slovenia and is the last, i.e. Slovenia, remained uninterested. I read that a few days ago in the paper. It's about the Trieste-Koper track. Because again Brussels offers them, again from the newspaper, 1.2 million euros to prepare a railway connection between Trieste and Kopro. What's up with that? Does Slovenia even have an interest in this line? I add to all these stories that the Italian, interest-free fast road construction loan in Rebernica has been in place for ten years, and this has dropped at least two kilometres of expensive fast road, and I cannot help but avoid the feeling that it is a new Slovenian syndrome. What's that? Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please don't take these questions as a local problem. I'm just talking about the segment, the fifth corridor that runs from Barcelona to Kiev. The coast has nothing here unless the line is drawn to Austria and Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u229	Thank you so much for asking. I must say that this issue has been emerging every day for the past three weeks, of course at all levels and also in the media and at all press conferences. The fact is that the second track of Koper-Divača is included in the list of priority TMT projects of the European Union. It is true, however, that it has so far fallen off the so-called rapid list under the European growth initiative prepared by the European Commission. However, this list is not yet concluded, but it is possible to add projects to it, or there will be discussions that are, of course, sufficient for certain criteria. This is the maturity of the project, a cross-border - and this is highlighted in particular - project dimension, impact on growth and innovation in the enlarged European Union and environmental benefits. In our ministry, we believe that the second-tier project of Koper-Divić is sufficient to meet all the criteria mentioned above. Therefore, through the mission of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, as well as at meetings and with the personal contacts of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we are trying to re-emphasize the importance of this project for the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that the Commission will place it on this list after the re-examination. Many meetings are taking place in these days, and at all these meetings we stress the importance of the integrity of this section through Slovenia, Section 5 of the European Corridor. This priority or list of these projects will be addressed in the world for transport on 4 and 5 December. This rapid list will be finally adopted in the European Council, at the European Summit to be held on 12 December in Brussels, to be attended by the Presidents of the governments of the current and future members of the European Union. So, with regard to the means that you state that Slovenia has been given or offered, there are various speculations that are also spread by different people. In these days, we are again collecting some claims, including those made at one of the meetings last week, to see what the funds have already been offered with these years ago. So, for the last one, this 1.2 million euro you have mentioned, as far as I have data so far, is helping Furlania-Julia Province to design the work of the project that is taking place in the Republic of Italy. It's a Koper-Trest railway project. We always point out at all levels, in all contacts, including with the Italian Minister of Transport, also with the representatives of the European Commission, that the priority for Slovenia is the second track, but cooperation between the cities of Koper and Trieste and between ports also depends on the construction of this railway connection between Koper and Trieste. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić, you want the minister to complete it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u231	Thank you for your answer. I'm very pleased. I hope I don't ask you again in my term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Janez Kramberger will ask the question of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government! Well, we've been witnessing recent developments at the Black Forest Hotel. The events connected with this facility have actually filled the front pages of newspapers and even the most viewed broadcasts in electronic media. In fact, the issue should be raised by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or, perhaps, by the Prime Minister. I estimate that at least four ministries are involved in solving this problem in one way or another: the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economy. We can see that the country, with all its institutions in this case, has proved to be incompetent and unable to solve these problems. I also have to think of this fact here in the National Assembly. The problems that have arisen as a result of the problem of the elderly have actually overtaken us. In countries, we do not have plans designed to deal effectively with the issues of the elderly. Clearly, the citizens, the elderly, are divided into several categories. Above those who are lucky to get a place in the home, and thus the right to paid health care, further to those who remain at home and care for them by the patronage service, and finally to those who are forced to decide for homes without a licence and must also settle all costs. Thus they remain left to themselves, to the knowledge and ingenuity and to the willingness of relatives to help them. In this case, it is also a matter of conjecture. In fact, social services deny that they are familiar with the departures of people from their surroundings to the Black Forest Hotel. The fact is, they were sent by these services to a hotel that did not have the right permissions. He has clearly cancelled the system of information between health care and social services and services within the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Health advocates the reduction of lying hours in hospitals and thus the reduction of costs, which in itself is not disputed. However, this same ministry should respond to all those patients who will need more health care in their home environment due to early hospital leave. It is clear that basic health care is not prepared for this problem both human and financial. I would be too harsh if I took the view that nothing was done in this area, but given the extent of the problem, there is certainly not enough work to do. I'm sure we should expect the appearance of the Black Forest in the professional circles as soon as possible. I expect the relevant ministries to give me a very clear answer: How can an activity be carried out in an unregistered facility? How is work coordinated and, above all, information between ministries? And: What will the competent ministries do to solve this problem? If we do not have the appropriate legislation to resolve these problems, I expect that the relevant legislation will be submitted to the National Assembly as soon as possible to address these problems. Dear members of the government, I have previously listened to your answers, which you have already given to my colleague Areh, perhaps if you consider that there is something else to be added to this, I would ask - otherwise, but I have already heard a part of the answer before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Good. We can proceed. Mr. Rudolf Petan would like to set up, Mr. Minister? [[...]] I'm sorry. I looked at you. The answers used to be exhaustive. Here you go, Mr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u235	I have understood that the Ministry of the Interior has also raised a question and because I have not yet had the opportunity to answer it, allow me, is very short, and we can also supply you with information on the details in writing. The Ministry of the Interior has known this case for some time. And I can confirm that with the Lenart police station, Lenart police station, they've already filed five pleas for a violation under section 23 of the Residence Registration Act. In fact, because of the fact that the books are kept, they are not confirmed by the relevant authority. In two cases, the Lenart Court of Offences, 28.8.2002 and 4.4.2002, have already issued a decision on the offence. The application of Lenart Police Station also went against the legal personality of Black Wood inn and tourism d.o.o., 26.2.2003. Finally, the fifth application is 6.11.2003. Lenart Police Station also informed the Market Inspectorate and the Environmental and Construction Inspectorate on 22.6.2003. As I say, in two cases, the Judge for Offences has also issued decisions. That's the first part of the story. The second part relates to a criminal investigation carried out in this regard in this hotel. Criminals have identified what is known as the fact that the hotel is operating without proper permission, and a greater number of deaths have also been reported, where the very causes are not specifically explained, and the irregularities of the doctor at Ptuj Medical School have also been observed in the treatment of resident caregivers at the Black Wood facility and in the conduct of death examinations. I'd add that. In cooperation with the Institute of Medicine, a judicial autopsy was carried out, and the final studies of this autopsy are not yet known. And, on the basis of the conclusions of the Maribor District Court, several house investigations have been conducted recently, including in the Black Forest facility, due to the suspicion of service of certain crimes, the definitive findings of this investigation have not yet been made, and so much can be said about the issue that the investigation is still under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I would like to complement the two ministers with their previous implementations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Given that certain statements have been made by Members who do not hold or I have to comment on them in some way, if I may. Now, Commissioner, you have indicated that we do not have any plans designed to effectively address the issue of the elderly, so you wrote in your question. I must say that the national programme for the protection of the elderly by 2005 sets out these objectives very precisely. These objectives set out that homes, whether state homes, with concessions or work permits, will be equipped in such a way that by 2005 4.5% of the population over 64 and 65 years of age can be accommodated in these homes. I can say that the goals we set ourselves in the national strategy are somehow being met and that we will reach this number by 2005. Otherwise, for the protection of the elderly and in Slovenia, we need to know the following: in 1981, there were over 65 years of age around 10%, in 2020 this number will be 20%, a trend that is in fact common to all countries of Western Europe, the European Union and, of course, needs to be adapted and in this sense we are also working. However, some other forms will need to be developed, this is what we have already started, then help at home, which I have already talked about, and I can only repeat once again that in the last three years around 2,000 cities have been opened in homes. Besides not listing, help at home and other day care centers. You also specify here if you allow those who are forced to decide for homes without a licence - the state does not direct this. I'll explain that too, but they weren't forced, so they decided themselves. I have already said that at the moment when they decide that cities are also available in other homes, both in state and concessional homes, and these people in this hotel were also enabled or offered to decide, through social services, to the extent that they decide - not under duress - that they can make a decision in some way. But there are also waiting types for homes, what was sometimes a stereotype is shortening and I hope that in time we will also fully define them with all these forms. The problem arises after the discharge, for example, from a hospital, a health institution, and it is likely that a colleague will also talk about the failure of a nursing hospital in Slovenia. This is one of the issues that we have already discussed and are facing. In short, an individual, an individual who can't -- let me put it this way -- manage himself and take care of himself, but then it's probably a so-called extended treatment institute or a nursing hospital. And of course, we should all be very thorough about this together - and it seems to me that this is the article in the system that is actually missing. And also, if you allow me to answer the question of individual social services, that they deny that they have been informed - what you are talking about. In any case, this was contrary to the Ministry's instructions, even if this was the case. That is why we have carried out or carried out surveillance, and if any social work centre has done so contrary to the Ministry's instructions, of course we will take action in such a case. Well, that's not the point. And most of the social work centres, or the largest of them, are happening here according to our information in very few cases, but we will also explore them and, of course, report them accordingly. As far as your initiative is concerned, how to carry out activities is not possible. I've told you before. The market inspection issued the decisions. Exclusion is, of course, one of the elements. However, I have received a market inspector's report, which says that the inspector's inspection law does not give, is valid for market inspectors, sealing and decommissioning of electricity, water, gas and communications when they are in the facility. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And I understand your initiative - if I may in the last part, allow - also as an initiative to study in the competent ministry - probably in the economic sector which is responsible for this part - of the law on supervisory inspection services and to find out what, in such a case, when decisions are made - was a whole series of decisions, criminals, then police, labour inspections, market inspections - how to ensure enforcement in such cases. [[...]] That is also how I understand this as a certain initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u238	Thank you very much. And Mr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u239	I'll try to be shorter. Maybe I'll make a comparison that'll make someone thinks they're in dispute. See, similar to - at least to me - as when we have a black construction ahead of us and are taking place decide at what point, how quickly, after what procedure, after an attempt to legalize, eventually there is some radical solution. I would say that there is an institution where people who are not guilty if those who operate this institution are in an illegal way to think about these people. In this way, attempts to bring about rehabilitation in order to achieve legalisation are, of course, true, and I believe that in this case too - I express my own opinion - nevertheless we understand this institution as a potential right or appropriate for a housing facility, as a capacity in an area where we do not have sufficient capacity. Therefore, it is necessary to work on an attempt to legalise, and in the event that this legalisation is not reached within an appropriate time frame, then we need, as a fellow minister has said, a way, even though it will be possible to do so at a time when individuals will not be satisfied with it, when these evictions may then not even be voluntary to understand it and the public will understand it. In any case, let me say that in the area of health, wherever citizens live even if they live under a bridge, even if they live with their relatives, even if they live in an illegal home that has no permits, these citizens have all the rights from their compulsory health insurance, and this is one of the great advantages that our country has and that many countries do not have. In doing so, I think we will talk a lot more when we discuss individual solidarity solutions, as envisaged by health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u240	Thank you very much. You want to complete your answer, Mr Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u241	Just for a little while. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't take this personally. But you will probably agree with me that coordination in this area is ineffective. I would expect, or the citizens who are also addressing me, to expect a very clear position of the government here; to say that the inspector must not turn off the water and I don't know what else - you know, this is all true. But the fact is that this case is a poor example of similar ones who are also on such illegal routes. This is very clear and there must be opportunities for inspections to act. You know, the fact is, there's uncoordinated work between individual inspections within the government. And if you, Mr. Minister, have told the case, I will say one, too, because I know this area of agri-food more. Let's say someone starts making food in an unregistered facility, the inspector locks it up and removes it harmlessly. And there can be such a long variety of people who would like to buy these products at a lower or higher price - the inspector prevents it. I'd expect the market inspector, or I don't know who, or the police, to do the same. After all, there is room in other homes for these people, and now that we are looking - we know that the facility is operating without permission for three years - and now we are looking for how to somehow get them to operate legally. Yeah, let's give them the opportunity, but for what we're capable of. But they are not capable of caring for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable. So my question also concerns the area of the judiciary which my colleague has already asked before me, but I will draw attention to some other things. So this is the report by Norman Doukoff, who has been in Slovenia for three years. As we could read, at that time he was able to translate a few thousand pages of material into our judicial system and probably also laws, so he knew the system well, so he couldn't be said to have spoken. In doing so, he estimated that in the case of judges, so it is written - I hope that he has also made a report on this - that judges are primarily dealing with themselves, protecting their privileges and payments and that they are working in particular less, solving fewer cases than in Germany, which he knows well, and they have nothing less to pay for. He evaluated the purchasing power that comes with this money. Its assessment was also that one of the reasons for large backlogs was that by 1999 there were no criteria, standards for the work of the judge and everyone could work as far as he thought. He also mentioned that the judges at the hearing are looking through the files, which I literally took, which means they don't really know they're not ready. Finally, he says that the legal tradition of the Slovenian judge is different - he has never actively embarked on the hearing. In doing so, I would like to say that the laws have been drawn up by the profession not by politics. God forbid anyone in Parliament should mention anything, with any amendment that would interfere with this legislation. That would be immediate interference with the court. And I'm going to ask you this, Mr. Secretary, because it's not a quote that's been removed, but it's a serious accusation. Finally, this is evidence of a gallbladder letter that the profession immediately sent to the German Embassy, and I think that this is where you bring it to the European Union. This is a very serious matter that they have forgotten and gone into this matter, so I would ask you, Mr Minister, since there is probably something wrong with the legislation, perhaps not in your mandate, but probably also. How do you comment on such serious accusations? Thanks for the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u245	Madam Vice-President, Mr President. With regard to most of the questions raised by Judge Doukoff's statements, I have already identified myself in Mr Butolen's reply. Just one more thing on what you've actually presented more specifically. So at the beginning, it might be possible to take another part of this statement, which was made at the press conference itself, because some of the statements you mentioned were also mentioned in various interviews. And in this part, Mr Doukoff said, inter alia, "that I would like to say that we have all together in these three years with intense and trustful full cooperation, with many responsible at the Ministry, as well as with the courts, the state prosecutors and universities, but we have achieved full respect for the worthy result, although I have often wanted more and experienced a number of disappointments." End of story. This last part could even skip, but I wanted to read it to the bottom. Since each other, I think it represents an assessment of the joint work on these pre-accession projects and we have been working together in this work, including a significant body of legislation. Even in the National Assembly, those who are members of the Committee on Internal Policy will also remember some of the many gallant discussions where there were no contradictions to the relationship of executive power, Members of Parliament or Government Members, but in a number of discussions about the contradictions where we were on the one hand, where we were so-called government and Members, on the other hand, representatives of the judiciary. So, even such discussions have been, I don't want to put them too much on the line, but it's different questions. I think that thanks to such, sometimes very hard, long-standing discussions, we have managed to introduce a number of solutions that, I will just say, have corrected what was probably flawed in 1995 in the context of judicial reform. Before my time at this ministry, as you know, test criteria for the expected scope of the judge's work were introduced, then the actual criteria. We have now enacted these criteria and introduced a number of other matters. It would probably be appropriate to purify this whole legislation over time, because it is clear that if it was originally made in some way, especially when it comes to organisational and statusal, then it would be supplemented to collect some institutes that are not essential to each other and it would be better to create a more transparent form. However, the work was done and I think that - that's why I mentioned this quote at the beginning - that it was on the one hand quite a great deal of work, on the other hand, that it was a successful work, but of course at the end of each work one can usually not even get rid of a handful of bitterness, because there could always be something done even better or even more. However, when views differ when lively discussions take place, sometimes there is a lack of optimism and realisation of anything anyone wants. So much for the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u247	Thank you. So the fact is that this judge pointed to something else — what is very important; that is, control. He says if there's no control, abuse can happen. There must be external control, if not, things will come up. I must also point out that something is certainly wrong where a professional group decides its positions entirely autonomously. If there is no control, abuse may occur. In short, even if we agree that a professional group is to be reinstated on its own, there must be external control, otherwise things are being flouted. This monitoring should be carried out by the Minister of Justice in the event that we are talking about the Slovenian judiciary and carried out consistently. Mr Minister, I would say here that I am aware that we have also denied you this role on this side many times, if this was interference with an independent judiciary. We know that. Which, of course, is not true! Interference is an intervention in a particular case, not generally when it comes to controlling work. It is also problematic in this case, which this judge points out that if most thinks, as a senior Slovenian judge told me, we have one of the best systems in Europe. And then he also states that even for the German judicial system, he would not have dared to claim that. And it is also present in Slovenia, not only in this area, that we claim that we have the best of this law and they have the law and other things that are in Europe, and of course that is the problem. Now, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you another question in a different direction. Now that you have black on white that you must, not only could you do this work: What will you change in your work? What will be your approach, because now you will have this judge's opinion in relation to the profession, that this is not interference if you control this system. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u249	Yeah, just for a little while. So it's a matter of control. We have introduced into law a very important institute of so-called official supervision. This was at the beginning, when Mr Doukoff came along and some German experts with this idea, I think I will not exaggerate, this idea was expected, almost as blasphemous. After a long-standing debate, which was well-tempered, otherwise we would have split up, but such a form could also be legalised and legalised, so the Minister of Justice proposes such official supervision within the judiciary. Similar complementary institutes have been introduced when it comes to the disciplinary process that we have arranged in more detail and more comprehensively during this time. There are also certain proposals on the Ministry's side. I am simply stating this in order to say that there have been important innovations in this area that allow for much more than possible, say, in 2000, when Mr Doukoff came to Slovenia. And that's why his statement that there was a lot of work done. Secondly, what I would like to stress in this matter is that the Ministry wants to make the most of the opportunities offered by legislation. Not in a way that would exemplarly, so much as be able to say a number here, require, say, official controls and in this way maybe even discredit this institute. On the contrary. The supervisory complaints we receive from the reports on this basis come from cases where we find that the use of such options is appropriate, including the use of the option under Article 73 of the Law on Courts. And we try all of these options in matters where appropriate to be used as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Dr Jožef Bernik will ask the question of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, I sent you a written question, and you know I'm talking about the Official Gazette of 110 this year. When I examined some things in this official paper, I also noticed some beauty in Article 10, which says "With imprisonment up to 60 days the offence is punishable 3: Whoever in a public place with speech, writing, bearing various signs, emblems or otherwise shames the social order of Yugoslavia or the challenge or insults the moral and patriotic feelings of citizens." Otherwise, there is a "use in accordance with Article 1 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia" - whatever this means. When a person thinks about the Slovenian language and also knows that your ministry in this administrative reform wants to slowly liquidate the Slovenian language office, he would think that you could keep it, your ministry, when reviewing these laws. And another thing: I would like to understand: How did this come about, and what did you do to correct it? I don't think there should be people in your ministry who want to re-populate the Slovenian language or even our laws. I'd like an answer. And I wonder very much: How guilty were we of not examining this refined text? I know I didn't, now I'm gonna be everybody. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Bohinc, please. Dr. Bernick, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Bernick, for that he asks. Dear colleagues and colleagues. But I must say that the question, unfortunately or not, is not addressed to the right address. The consolidated text you are talking about, the law on offences against public order and peace, was adopted by this National Assembly on a proposal from the Office for the Legislative and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly, as stated in Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, after the adoption of the amendment of this Act, which was tabled by a group of Members and not by the Ministry of the Interior or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment, which has led to the mandatory publication of the purified text, has therefore been proposed by the Group of Members and the National Assembly has adopted the purified text, as it has also been said normally in relation to the legal system as we have it. In fact, you correctly cited the constitutional law for the implementation of the fundamental Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This constitutional law is crucial for the legal interpretation of this situation. Article 4 provides that the Republic of Slovenia still has reasonable rules from the previous country, insofar as they are not contrary to the Slovenian legal order and so on. The Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace is such a provision from the former State, which, if not contrary to the rule of law, is still in force. But something else is important for the legal interpretation, which is what you have noticed in the round, and legally this means that Article 20 of this Constitutional Law states that they are not subject to criminal protection or protection as regards offences against public order and peace, the former common country, its legal order, its authorities, its representatives or state symbols. Thus, regardless of what it says, legal protection is not enjoyed by this country or its representatives, despite such an outdated text of this law. So much for an explanation, but I believe that this is justifiable to you that it is an expression that remains in this outdated regulation. However, I can ensure that in the government's programme for next year, there is an amendment or proposal to adopt a new law on offences against public order and peace, which will fully replace another part of this law, which is actually still in force today. It is necessary to know that a whole range of sectoral rules in the field of noise, public gathering, and I do not know what else has been adopted in the Republic of Slovenia during this time, and have derogated from the provisions of the legislation under consideration, i.e. this criticised Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace. And a little bit of this law still applies, and at this point, I agree with you. It needs to be brought out of the world, a new law needs to be proposed, and it needs to be prevented from doing so in the course of the course of business. Such is the case with the adoption by the National Assembly of a consolidated text when amending the law. The novels that have been adopted are taken into account, but the rest is in the text in which the law is in force. The legislative service of Parliament acted perfectly, leaving such a provision through. However, I think there is no doubt about the legal interpretation because the constitutional law for the implementation of fundamental constitutional changes is clear in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I imagined what you'd say. However, as you can see, there is no other minister or here in the National Assembly to which this person would refer. That's why you were the right address because you're enforcing this law. Thank you very much, and I hope you will really support this. Now I have another question, and this is for Minister Dimovski. It's a grave marriage. What I think of him and some others, you know that. When I was reviewing the budget and some other files, I noticed that nothing was actually doing anything. I was on a couple of days ago, and I didn't see anything happen. [[...]] It's just one beautiful asset, I think. That's why I'm asking you: Would it not suggest that you submit a plan for this project? How it will be implemented, when it will be implemented, etc.? You have all kinds of projects, including care for partisan fighters, disabled people, the incurably ill ones that are needed, some are needed - others will hold the opinion - state aid. Why not think here of the dead who have been resting for nearly 60 years in their graves? Then I'm also interested in this: Who will do something about the earthly remains of those who had their graves defiled after the war? You probably know that, but if you don't, you can get some information about it. Or the people who were put to death by various political and military courts? Something should be done about it. I'd like to have one really good answer, because in the end it's a real pie and respect for the dead, because I think all barbarians know, but we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u257	Thank you so much for asking. Now, as far as your performance is concerned, I would like to say a few things that are likely to shed a little more light on these questions or the answers to the questions you have asked. In any event, the adoption of the War Cemetery Act has only allowed the state to take care of certain graves that have so far been cared for by local communities. Of course, you are aware of this from the adoption of the War Cemetery Act. Article 21 of this Law also, of course, requires the Government to prepare an annual programme for the management of military graves, including those silenced ones, which is why the government or as a government of ministries is preparing this programme, which will, of course, be gradually this, silent cemetery and also these memorial signs, which, of course, have been placed where they belong. For this, of course, it is also necessary to produce something that has not yet been produced, of course, and it is a register of silent graves. You know that, too. We, together with the Ministry of Culture, have been preparing this register for some time now and this register will cover all locations, as a rule. According to our kind of expert reviews, about 196 such sites will then be the basis for the prosecution and the Ministry of Justice for all necessary investigative actions, which are also necessary in relation to the cases you have mentioned. Now, as far as the question of jurisdiction is concerned. Of course, I do not want to talk much about powers here, but the questions you are asking the Ministry are addressed to that part of the executive branch that provides or enables the implementation and management of graves, not the actions themselves, investigations and other actions that are, of course, within the competence of others. That is why I would also like to say that it is our intention to actually complete some, including starting construction, such as the Teharje and Kočevski Rog Memorial Park, that is, for Teharje we are counting on it to be completed in the first half of next year, so that the project, which has so far been worth about 400 million, will also be completed with, I think, the path of silence and some other segments, which will then allow for, I would say, the object to be completely completed. As early as this year, we would like to place the first single memorial sign on a muffled grave, probably in Goriška, but this decision is being made, as you know, by the government commission, by the one who makes proposals, where and when individual, unique memorial signs will also be placed. However, as is also known, a public invitation to tender for these memorial signs, a selection of memorial signs has been issued, so that, in fact, this is also concluded in some way, the whole process and that now the so-called annual programme, which I said earlier, will be implemented, of course. Once again, of course, there is a great deal of professional work here. Professional work, especially in the development of a register of silent graves, so that we hope that this project, in connection with the Ministry of Culture, will be completed and that we will then be able to accurately anticipate and plan the progress of this programme of markings of silenced graves. This is how we think that, as they say, this law will provide for the dead or the dead and we could talk about a civilised posture in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u259	Very nice, Mr. Secretary. But I'd like to know about: When will you have this program and when will we be able to see it? As far as this commission is concerned, I think it is best for the government to dissolve it and put some other people in it, so that it would be a more balanced commission because it has not done a good job. And thirdly, I also asked about these desecrated graves: Who is responsible, and what can be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u261	If you'll excuse me. As far as this third question is concerned, I would assume that this is a state’s attorney’s office, or another competent investigating body, because it was clearly a violent act. So it is probably necessary to locate this issue on the competent. Now, as far as the programme is concerned, we expect all the professional work on this basis to be completed as soon as possible. Of course, we also have the legal provisions under which we must draw up this annual programme as a sub-legislative act, and as soon as these professional elements are ready, we expect, of course, that this annual programme, or in part, will also be fully presented, so that you will also have the opportunity to see it. I think it's defined as a submarital act in the War Cemetery Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Zammernik will ask the question of the mission, namely two. First to the Minister of Transport, then to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Although the Minister for Education and Sport is not here, I would like to ask you a question, and I would ask you if I could combine this time together, which is intended to ask questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u264	First to the Minister of Transport, then we will have an answer, then to the Minister of Education and your statement, whether you want it in writing or orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u265	I would also like to ask the Minister for Education and Sport, because I am already at the previous Parliamentary meeting on questions sent [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u266	Did we get along just fine? You have two three minutes at your disposal. First we take advantage of this part, then we take advantage of the other part.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u267	We got along just fine, Madam Vice President. So, as I wanted to say to the Minister for Education and Sport, I have already asked an informal question at the previous meeting, and because I was promised something would start, but it is not, but today I also want to ask this question. However, I am asking the Minister of Transport two questions. The first is related to an article in the Journal of Work, 8.11.2003, where the representatives of the economic-interest association of motorists, Emil Milan Pintar, spoke on their behalf, stated a number of serious charges at the expense of existing distributors of permits and also the Ministry of Transport. There is clearly nothing less than a violation of the law on administrative procedure, the law on road transport and the Constitution. On the basis of this article and, of course, the letters that have been sent by our Commission for the past year, but somehow they related to this, asked your services, Mr Minister, if they had prepared any response in this regard, there was no reply from them, so please check these statements. I wouldn't be using them right now because I'm running out of time, but I want to set you up with something else. And that you are trying to respond to these allegations within the time limit of business. The second part of the question concerns the concrete execution of the overlaying of the Kranjska Rak road. I'm sure you do, Mr. Secretary. With great effort we have managed to place this road in the budget, of course also with your help, Mr Minister. Unfortunately, it did happen this year, despite the fact that 60 million is foreseen for this, just some pouring of sand, material that will be in the winter, I believe, confused out of the road, so I ask you for the following, because we know that we were both mayors and we know how such a slight overcoating can be done with cheap means to make it cost 60 million here. Therefore, I am asking you for the design budget of this work, which was the basis for offers, offers by listed operators, for the selection decision, for the contract with the contractor and for the payment in the situation, for both parts of the road, for the one made this year, and for the one made two years ago. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. There is no need to answer about the first part because the question has not been raised?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u269	That's what I'm trying to say, the first part wasn't a raised question, but even if you don't mind, I'll only answer in a few words. We have answered the question of Giz for transport, the government has answered the Giz for transport to the questions he has officially asked. In newspapers and public information media, after several times, and even in recent days, the issue of the corruption of some individuals on, I will limit myself to this part, to the Ministry of Transport, and the fact is that the law, as we all probably know, especially you, provides that the permits are shared by both chambers, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. In view of these claims in the public eye, we demand, just today and tomorrow, those who bring these claims and bring accurate information on who the person receiving bribes is, etc., given that I have already said on one of our televisions, that until we have absolutely no document regarding the fact that this is, of course, a system of "saying, pointing," that is what you, as we know, have also listened to. So, I hope that in the coming days we will receive confirmation of these claims from some individuals, of what corruption and of what bribery is involved in this case. As for the second question, I must say that investments in the Ministry of Transport account, on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, are led by the Ministry of Roads and the Directorate of Roads, of course, I do not know, I will say, about 300, 400 or around 300, 400 contracts and, of course, I am now thinking, given that you have not mentioned the exact subject of your question, I do not know exactly what the problem is. The fact is that we are provided in the budget for this year and for the following years, therefore, smaller amounts, probably such as you mentioned in the budget for the modernisation of this road, but, therefore, a call has been made, even complaints have been made in accordance with the law on public procurement, the contractor has been chosen, the relevant contracts have been concluded and the work has been carried out until now, I think, completely normal. As a Member, I think you can see all these documents in the Slovenian Roads Directorate, as you have done years ago, I think you managed to do so in the event of another investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u270	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u271	Mr. Minister, if I understand you correctly, I have to come to you directly to get these documents, or you can tell me to get a copy of these papers, maybe ten papers. The treaty is probably not very extensive, and I believe that the range of offers is also on a single sheet, a structural budget, because it is less work, probably not very extensive, so I see no reason not to be able to send these documents. But if it doesn't work out differently, of course, I'd be happy to come over and take a look at it, but I don't want to waste your time. Send what I wanted and I think it will be the most possible to make a comparison of how much more it costs the citizens, if the road is built by the state so uneconomically that this year it is made only by a pile of material and does not close with a asphalt coating, because it will mean that the second year will do everything that the contractor has done this year is, of course, now talking about having the right to do it so that the contract does not oblige him. Like I said before, we were both mayors, and you know what an investor can do, if he says I won't pay you, you'll do what we agreed, or if you've written in a contract so that it's possible to do so, then of course it's the fault of the one you mentioned earlier, the director says she made such a contract. I would ask you, however, for economics, because, as I said, the congregations have done this section of the road for ten to fifteen million, and this section will cost 60 million, and it will not be made this year. Therefore, I ask you, it is probably in the interest of both of you to treat these funds economically in order to send us this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u272	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u273	When I said you're looking at the documentation on the directorate, so if you'll let me adjust it a little bit, we'll deliver that documentation, which is of course public, to you in the coming days. But some things, as far as I can tell, like contracts and so on, are not public documents and cannot be roasted and placed around them, but they are available to you. In case I'm wrong, we'll deliver all the documents you proposed or wanted to see them to you. However, we cannot guarantee you that we will deliver those documents which we cannot deliver because of the legislation we have. But I would, therefore, think very much of this last statement, as to the prices at which the congregation works, at what price the country works. So I must say that the Ministry of Transport has a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors over the last three years, in all these years for 2001 and 2000. And of course, the Court of Auditors has set up, so it has given some guidance, in what way to improve this, we are also trying to deliver works and these instructions to the fullest extent, or absolutely even in the delivery of works, in the invitation to tender, in the broadcasting of works and so on, and in the control of works themselves. So, I'm sure all these procedures are in line with the Public Procurement Act. It is true, however, that this may cause us to lose some process because of legitimate or unjustifiable complaints made by individual operators. So, once again, I would like to stress the information that I have unfortunately not been aware of for this particular project, which you have asked, we will deliver to you, and the rest of you will have to take a look at the directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u274	Thank you very much. And now the question for the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u275	Thank you. I'll be brief because I overstepped in a few seconds last time. I ask this question to the Minister of Education on behalf of the parents of the first-grade nine-year-old in Mozir, who do not agree with the decision of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to enable their children to carry out their religious activities at the premises of the elementary school in Mozir. We talked about this with the minister, as I said before, in the informal work here. He promised that if the allegations held that the actual way to the religious classroom was as I described it to him, he would try to enable children to do so in school. Parents wrote: "Some children are not even six years old. A weak kilometer long from the elementary school in Mozir to the religious classroom located near the church of St. George in Mozir, where a religious belief is usually performed, is dangerous and full of traps for a six-year-old child. This route is essential along the road and should be crossed at least three times by a six-year-old. In addition, there is a time when these paths will become even more dangerous due to bad weather. And the wet and frozen children get sick faster, which is also likely to be unpleasant for the entire school system." Here are the signatures of every parent, 28 of these kids who want it. Mr Minister, as I said, promised me that he would be committed to solving this problem, but the legislation allowed him to be approved in such cases on the proposal of the school director, who was given the opportunity to conduct the course there. Parents do not want to politicize this problem, but they are only concerned about the safety of their children, nor, as you have heard, even six-year-old children. Therefore, I ask the Ministry to take action so that there is no accident, because I do not know who will then take responsibility if that happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Do you request an oral response to the next meeting? Tell me, Mr. Viceroy. If you want an oral response, otherwise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u277	To get the case resolved as soon as possible. I don't want to wait a month. Please send a written response, preferably earlier than in 30 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Drobnic will ask the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u279	Dear Mr. Minister of Health, Dr. Keber! The question will be brief. As far as you're concerned, you're about to stop pediatrics at the primary level. Certain indications suggest that this is happening. The abolition of certain departments, or at this primary level, has begun and I am interested in giving a clear answer: What are you going to do about it? After all, even in the so-called white book, as you define it, there is nothing to talk about pediatrics at least at the primary level and so, a clear answer please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u281	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. First of all, I can answer that we do not intend to abolish pediatrics at the primary level, so it will remain. There is certainly no intention, by the Ministry of Health, but I do allow any statement or two in the White Paper to ring a bell and I can therefore understand some of the comments that have occurred in the public. Well, while this would be true, let me just mention that the White Paper is a draft and, as such, is subject to a well-founded debate, which will also take place and is already taking place among the parliamentary groups. But let me say no, we have no intention of abolishing this activity at the basic level. However, allow me to spend two minutes just to give thought to what the basic health level is and what tasks it has. At this level, the doctor acts as a so-called doorman, which is not meant to be offensive, into the health system. He's the one who does the first sieve, the first selection, and he's the one who decides to send the patient forward. In this way it also works effectively, and, among other things, it is more rational to distribute those resources, which are, of course, as you well know, modest. In recent years, even better said decades, on a basic level, despite this concept of goalkeepers, doctors, general physicians, as goalkeepers, we have brought a variety of specialties. In addition to the long - term pediatry, along with the long - term gynecology, along with the long - term pulmologists who are the longest since tuberculosis, orthopaedics, cardiologists, and some other professional expertise can be summed up. As a rule, all of these are related to the secondary level and can be interpreted as having their activities performed more than a dislocated outpatient in basic health care. Well, this is certainly not the case for pediatricians, and I want to say for a pediatrician, so he also has the function of a goalkeeper in the children's system, such as general doctors, family doctors and others for adults. There's a problem here somewhere. Look, insurance, the kid's about 400,000. Some nursing homes with adult doctors have barely managed to maintain a 24-hour job for a year or a day. On vacation. When we talked about doctors ’ working hours and their burdens, we discussed just how to provide uninterrupted 24-hour care. So let me mention that even among pediatricians, who are still significantly fewer, several times fewer than general doctors, the question is of course how to provide this service in full. It's a job as a janitor for a child in the health system. And that is why, not because we would like to, but because the profession has already decided 10 years ago to also introduce the so-called family doctor, we have allowed the possibility that in very remote places where in the entire geographical area they have barely one general doctor, we are thinking that at these points in the future the so-called family doctor, who would, and this is written in the white book, is causing a double explanation, which would be part of the activities of other specialists in the well-being of many citizens, including children. This means that it is perfectly clear that where there are many doctors together, in a large healthcare home, in large and medium-sized places, they will continue to be pediatricians, as has been so far, where there have been no doctors, but it will be necessary to think, from the point of view of the citizen's accessibility to a doctor at the basic level, who will take over this function, or a pediatrician, who will then, of course, have to drive, I don't know, a certain number of kilometres, or a family doctor who will do only part of the knowledge and performance for children. There are both solutions in the world, and I think that we will also have a meaningful and, of course, a solution when we land the profession or with the solutions provided by the profession. In short, I can calm the public down, the pediatricians remain in primary health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Do you want a follow-up, Mr. Petty Officer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u283	Mr Minister, it turns out that pediatrics work well in Slovenia. The results on children's morbidity are good compared to other countries, and therefore in our opinion and in my opinion, doing some experiments is not healthy and not good. You mentioned the doorman, this is one, now how you imagine this doorman, then the family doctor, as you introduce the doorman either as a general doctor or as a family doctor, then you have a pediatrician on a secondary level. You're going to have to explain this in terms of what you're imagining in this conglomerate, because in all of this conglomerate you're going to list it now, what you're going to imagine and how it's going to be with remote locations. From all of this, it is impossible to imagine what this should look like in Slovenia and some of the data show, but not in remote places, which are here in Ljubljana to stop. Now, whether it's not enough money or not enough specialties, it's your problem as Minister of Specialization and money. As for the capacity of the pediatrician, we know about 1,300 children there, and for adults, we know what it's like. As long as you bridge, stop the pediatricians, all of these capacities will be given to general medicine doctors. They will get all of this and eventually, as it appears from the White Paper, they will continue to carry out basic, primary gynaecological issues, paediatric issues and disaster in Slovenia will certainly come.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u285	I guess I wasn't clear enough after all. Let me repeat that the doctor who works in basic health care is by definition a doorman, and since the pediatrician will also be a business in basic health care, he will also be a goalkeeper for the young population. Like a family doctor or general doctor doorkeeper for everyone else, a pediatrician will be a doorman for children. In addition, it must provide a 24-hour service, so I have mentioned some logical restrictions. We cannot simply anywhere where general doctors are now in Slovenia, add another pediatrician and here there is a concept of accessibility, which in basic health care must be good, and of course not only financial capacity of the system, but also resources, human resources and sense. That's why it's a matter of, I'll say, a meaningful agreement on how to organize it. And I would say, look at the great successes that we have in the health system, of course, many of the professions are deserving, certainly very deserving of even pediatricians, but not just them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u286	Thank you very much. And the question to the Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u287	But the Minister of Justice has a question. In particular: Has the government considered anything, i.e. the Ministry, regarding the determination of the responsibility of the Attorney General, which has not responded to a number of allegations by the competent supervisory authorities concerning the damage to former social property or the State in the property transformation proceedings? To be more specific and clear. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy took note of the report on the work of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Revision of the Property Transformation of Enterprises for 2002. In view of the shocking results, the billions of injuries and clear indications, also documented, the Agency has prepared data to press charges to be used for complaints. Similarly, the social advocate confirmed this and was dissatisfied with the work of the prosecution. So I'm wondering if you've discussed this since the decision of the National Assembly was taken by a convincing majority, including members of the ruling coalition - that is: Have you submitted this to the government for consideration? It's been four months. Will it take one year to wait? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u289	Your Honor! Neither the written forecast nor this question is sufficiently specific to know which conclusion and which treatment it refers to. Nor would it be quite clear on which period certain findings relating to damage to former social property relate. That is why, on the basis of what we are dealing with in the Ministry, I know the report which the Attorney General, together with the relevant information, has prepared for one of the committees of this National Assembly and also forwarded it to the Ministry. It also refers to a similar 1999 report, and we are still studying that report. At first glance, it does not reveal what you are saying. In view of the fact that there would be no reaction by the State Prosecutor's Office in relation to complaints or complaints made by the authorities responsible for detecting such irregularities. So we'll continue to study it. However, if you want more information, or if I may have gone in the wrong direction, that I did not touch what you wanted with your question, then I would have asked for more specific questions, so that I would know which decision this matter refers to.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u290	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you want an additional question or request an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u291	Yeah. I would now read it to the minister, and the government also got it, and your ministry, I hope, even if the correspondence has been arranged, government service. The Committee on the Economy is at its 38th session, 11.6. 2003 considered the report on the work of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of corporate property transformation for 2002, EPA 809 - III and adopted the following conclusions on the basis of the proposals of the decisions of the Sub-Committee on Property Change and Privatisation. I'm not going to read the others. I'm going to read the third. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should take decisions on the responsibility of the State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia and the Attorney General in relation to the prosecution of offences relating to damage to social property, as well as appropriate measures, and report thereon to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Minister, if you don't have it, and the government doesn't have it, I'll give it to you now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u292	Please turn off the microphone there. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have another word for this part of the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u293	Just for a little while. Of course, this is what we have, if we referred to it first, then of course I would answer in this direction. However, you cited the alleged conclusion of the National Assembly. I think that the report and the information I mentioned earlier is precisely about the response of the state prosecutor to the obvious point 2 of this decision and what is in this point 2 we are studying and that is what my response was about. Of course, the findings resulting from this will be the basis for any further action.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u294	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next Member who wants to ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. This is Mr. Mario Gasparini. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the Minister is not here, but I will still use this question to ask you a written answer. So, it's about the space crisis at the Central Technical School in Cyprus. The history of this high-tech school dates back to 1959, when 280 of its students were built. Since its inception in 1956, the school has been renamed four times by the time it is called Koper High School of Technology. The first spatial hardship was the transition to targeted education, which led to the need for 700 pupils to receive the original built-up facility for 280 students. The solution was sought by the school’s management in adapting this old student’s home and thus acquired new classrooms. In 1987, the municipality awarded the first location for the construction of a secondary school above the Tomos factory. Another location in 1989, near the new shopping center, but this location was now given by the municipality to the university. The signing of the intention to build a new school centre in 1995 between the Municipality of Koper and the Ministry of Education made a long-standing effort to build a new school. The expectation of a new school was that there was very little investment in the current premises. Now at school, classes are held in 19 classrooms, in two shifts. 8 years have passed since the signed letter of intent, so the expectations of the project are very high. Koper High School of Technology was involved in a project to build schools from Parisian credit. The construction of the school building was and is still envisaged at the site of the former Tomos factory, covered by the documents of the two development of investment programmes, as well as in the current third programme. Dear Minister, who is not here, I ask: At what stage is the realisation of this project? So, as I have just foretold, I ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Is Mr. Franz Kangler going to ask the Minister of the Interior a question? Here you go. Mr. Gasparini, you can turn off the microphone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u297	Thank you for asking. I have been asking the Minister of the Interior for a long time. The fact is that we are Members under such and different pressures from day to day. In my previous term in the National Assembly, I have repeatedly pointed out some of the crimes where Slovenian politicians have appeared, especially ministers and Members, as injured persons. Although they have also been repeatedly informed in this mandate by some individual Members, also the President of the National Assembly, that some matters have also been well-informed by the Secretary-General of the General Assembly and that no significant changes have been made to date. Given that I have a feeling from day to day that someone in this country has influenced the political underbelly to commit crimes against individual political figures. Several Members of Parliament, ministers in the previous term, from the Deputy Prime Minister and below were victims of crimes. To date, no crime has been solved or a known perpetrator of a crime. During this term of office, someone in this country is allowed to break in to Members of the House, break into Presidents' cars, Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, break in to Minister of Transport, President's apartment, injure of foreign matters to individual Members, break into Members Viszak's apartment, break into Members Jakic's apartment. Let us experience the epilogue of all this when they break into a protected person, the president of the National Assembly. Although I had previously reminded him of such and different phenomena in this society, which do not bear the mathematical accounts of all these crimes, it did not end in all these cases. Crimes continue and go primarily in this direction, that someone hopes to break in to a protected person, the Minister of the Interior, on key important matters that are added to the political process. Given that time is running fast when one of the currents of politics wants to replace the foreign minister in this country, strange things also happen to him, at the window or anywhere else in that environment. Probability accounts don't count. Dear Minister, I ask you: What have you, as Minister, done in this area, or have you done about this issue, which is not everyday, which is not normal for the existing democracy in this country, discussed in the government or asked the competent services, from the police director to launch a broader investigation? Will it be necessary for Members to protect this democracy in such a way as to establish it, or will we take the initiative to set up an investigative commission? That's why I'm asking you publicly: What measures are you taking to investigate these crimes?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u299	Dear Madam Vice President, colleague, colleague! Thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question raised. I must say that the police are doing their work in accordance with criminal and police law, whether it is a policy, an MP, a minister or someone who is not. In short, there is no difference in the investigation of crimes in this regard. The police do their work responsibly, according to the rules of the profession and according to the rules of our legislation. At the request of the Minister of the Interior, the Director-General of the Police has already prepared two reports on the burglaries you are talking about and other crimes of this kind. Both reports have already been submitted to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, first on 23.10.2001, and second on 18.1.2001. In preparation, the third report will cover the events that took place after that date, which includes the second report. This report is an expression of the Minister of the Interior's special concern about how police conduct these procedures. And so far the findings from these reports received from the police do not confirm any possible guesses or even the claim that these suspected crimes are of any political background. In these cases, as the police have stated in their report, there is no interrelationship whatsoever, and it is, at least so far, solely for the purpose of obtaining unlawful property benefits. Cases are removed, as is the case with burglaries, which are also in other cases when it is not a policy or a protected person. It's about money, gold, technical objects or other valuables. Such cases were also such as to prevent such items from being found in an apartment or house. The perpetrators did not take anything away, in short, they were not interested in what might have been politically interesting about the official. I repeat. The results of these investigations so far have not confirmed any claim or assessment that any of these cases are of any political background. However, I should say that in all these matters, the criminal procedure or the pre-trial investigation procedure is still ongoing. Therefore, allow me not to comment on individual cases or to refer to the current state of the investigation in specific cases. Injury will certainly be informed of the progress of the investigation. However, we will be covered in the third and perhaps also in the next report all that the studies so far have shown on these cases. However, let me also say that the specific criminal records committed by a politician or a protected person are not kept by the police, but are treated in the same manner by the police, of course taking into account the circumstances which must otherwise be dealt with in the investigation of any criminal offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Kangler wishes to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u301	I am not satisfied with the answer, because until today the police have not detected any of the perpetrators of the crime that I have cited. And for the rule of law, it is abnormal for a respected minister to break in to the Prime Minister, protected persons to break in to the President of Parliament, to break in to the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, to break in to the Minister of Transport, to break in to Members and some, and these events happen just when individual political parties have such or different political activities in their field. That's insane. This isn't about one case, it's not about two, it's not about three. Last year, I was the victim of a crime. Just that day, when I'm negotiating with the Owl, what the content of the law, the roof, should be about control of the Owl. For me, this house next to a police officer, the security guard, and the cameras, they pierce the tires, they break the windshield. The police unit, which runs security in this house, keeps the footage for only a few hours, and to this day not even the President of Parliament, although the Secretary-General, who is listening today, has done nothing to improve this protection in this area. On the contrary. Two days or three days before the Congress of the Slovenian People's Party, how can you comment to me that a journalist of one of the TV stations puts a camera in Celje before the police come to realize the crime committed by the responsible person in the Real Estate d.o.o. The cameraman was put there before the police, who made a big hallo effect with blue lights, blocked the street, blocked the building, led the employees to the toilet, and similarly, made one big hallo effect that the media reported in this way. And they have harmed one of the candidates who has run for office at a congress who has absolutely nothing to do with this matter, which gives only the consent to appoint one of those people. How are you going to comment on that? Who abuses these forces, political or otherwise, for accounts within Slovenian politics. And here I am asked: What and how can the Ministry of Internal Affairs help prevent such things from happening within us, because it is abnormal to target Slovenian politicians and protected persons with simple crimes?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u303	The Ministry of the Interior does not investigate individual crimes, but I am convinced that investigators take into account specific circumstances when dealing with an injured person who is a holder of a function or even a protected person. Therefore, I am convinced that the investigators are particularly looking at possible indications in this direction and see whether it may not be a political background. I have no doubt that I have no reason to doubt that such investigations are also directed in this direction. However, I repeat, so far the findings of the investigations do not give rise to the fact that the political background in these cases has already been definitively proven. Just because it is a political function bearer, there can be no proof in itself, it can be an indictee, it can be an indicator, it can be a basis for suspicion, and there is no evidence that it is already a political background in any particular case. I agree with the assessment that these cases are relatively large, and above all, they must be more receptive by definition. Otherwise, for a few small statistics: close to 80,000 procedures, investigations are under way annually with the police and just over 70,000 proceedings for offences against public order and peace. So that's probably what happens after marriage. If we obtain evidence in this direction that it is a political background in an individual case, believe me that this will be specifically justified, specifically substantiated and specifically shown in the follow-up report. However, probably the information you say and the actions on which it is discussed suggest that it may indicate that it is advisable to consider whether the protection of the facilities and of the persons is properly arranged, in a manner appropriate to the security situation of this country. This reflection is never too much and today's security assessment is such that it dictates protection in the manner regulated by the government regulation. If there are changed security assessments, and this reflection is always up to date, then I believe that we will be able to amend the rules in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! Slovenia has been building motorways since 1970. During these 33 years, a total of 468 kilometers of highways, fast roads, and other roads were built from the national program. In addition to improved transport safety, links to European space, you also mention the expected social and tourist benefits of built motorways. The tourist benefit of Slovenian motorways, which have led the traffic flows through the established routes and have caused a significant rash of visitors to a variety of cultural, historical or natural attractions, depends on the establishment of tourist and other notification signals that would alert and send potential visitors to these attractions. But here it is completely stuck, stuck in the setting of tourist and other notification signals on our highways, as tourist and other notice boards that would mark cultural, historical or natural attractions are previously an exception to the rule. The layout of these tables is virtually impossible, which I will try to illustrate with the following example. All since the opening of the Arja vas-Vransko motorway section, that is, six years since 1997, activities have been under way to put notice tables on the highway to promote the cultural and natural attractions of the Lower and Upper Savinja Valley. The action was coordinated from the outset by the Management Unit of Žalec, the Mozire Administrative Unit, and with the 12 municipalities in the area. Later the project was joined by the Municipality of Velenje. The Regulation allowing the establishment of such tables was adopted in the summer of 2000, and immediately after the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, we coordinated the acquisition of licences within the Administrative Unit. To this end, we have prepared, together with the Savinja Development Agency, draft tables, organised several meetings with representatives of municipalities, where we have finalized the content to be presented on a separate table. We have obtained statements from all municipalities gravity within 30 km to agree with the content. In April 2001 we addressed Dars d.d. Ljubljana application for authorisation, October 2001 received a positive opinion from the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. In March 2002, the Slovenian Tourist Association, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Economy, organised a consultation on the topic of tourism signalling. The consultation presented a number of issues surrounding the issue of licenses for the establishment of tables. At the same time, guidance was provided on the implementation of the rules by the Ministry of Transport. On the basis of this guidance, an application for authorisation for the establishment of notice tables was required multiple times than to be supplemented. During this time, the Slovenian Tourist Organisation produced a study on the tourist signalling on the highway and on the fast roads, after which our original proposed content was not appropriate. At the same time, Dars rejected our role as inappropriate. Tell me, Mr. Secretary: How do you imagine taking advantage of the expected tourist benefits of built motorways if, in the six years in this section, and generally throughout Slovenia, it is not possible to set tourist information tables to refer potential tourists to cultural and natural attractions?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Mr. President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u307	Thank you so much for asking. I must say, you've already stated a lot of facts yourself. On the basis of which tourist and other notification signals are installed and so on. Thus, it is mainly the purpose of individual roads, especially motorways, decoupling, safe decoupling. And of course, on these roads there must be those notice boards that lead us to some particular place. And it can't be on highways and never will be marked by all cultural, historical, tourist and what else do I know which sites of monuments. There is also a requirement that the seats of all municipalities should also be marked on motorways. This is also, in the fragmentation of our local government, of course, literally impossible, as you have already found, found on the exports of Šentrupert, in particular, which you also indirectly mentioned. From this export is access to, I don't know, probably around 15 municipalities or 12. And all the places can't be listed. As regards tourist facilities, the Slovenian tourism organisation has therefore made a list or priority, a non-project, which are those tourist facilities that are important for the Republic of Slovenia and for tourism activities. However, there is also a standard where there is no way to place more than one table between the two exports, so that we do not have an entire forest of alert tables on the highway. This process is difficult, it will not be all on the motorways, but it is like a renewed initiative to re-examine where we are with these procedures at the specific section that you referred to and what those projects are. I don't know them myself because you didn't say exactly what you were going to ask. So who are those objects and those sights, for example, that the Slovenian tourism organization mentioned in its laboratory, and other institutions that are also competent to say which facilities are of great importance for the whole of Slovenia or for the part of Slovenia where the highway is taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u309	Look, with the answer I can't possibly be satisfied and I'll say that the designers are constantly new and new demands that appear before us, who are trying to set these highway warning boards, that they, after all, also have support in the Minister of Transport, which I find extremely sad and totally unacceptable. Look, it's not about demanding 30 tables. Once again, we have agreed to coordinate the two administrative units to bring 12 municipalities into line, to obtain the consent of all municipalities within the 30km framework, to take into account the professional study of the Tourist Association of Slovenia, to finally complete the tables with the necessary icons, if I have just read that we have received such completed applications again in the final stage, without any reasonable reason, and with such stupidity, that any change in the table requires the replacement of a complete table that does not cost more than two million. Look, this is totally incompatible with what we as a local community have given for this highway space, so that today we cannot enjoy something that would actually be given to tourists who drive on these highways to get. Because you do not allow us to let potential tourists know about those natural, cultural and other sights that are worthy of sight and which are, after all, also the central point of marketing in specific areas. Too bad I'm talking to you. You know what Mozire's grove means, and one of these solutions was to draw attention to this Mozier grove. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Since I am already running out of time, please tell me, please let me say: Who is the one who is blocking the installation of these notification tables on highways? [[...]] In particular, with a name and surname and for reasons which, despite all coordination and six years of effort, prevents the setting up of these tables. More than that table, which appears on this highway section, was by some strange coincidence on the list of illegal objects to be removed. However, I would like to point out that this board was placed on the authority of the then Head of the DARS administration. Listen here is the matter to the end chaotic and uncoordinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u311	Well, I can't tell you anything else than before. An application for this should be made to the DARS, and you have already found this in your implementation. I'm going to take this as an initiative and see exactly why this is going to work. But once again, I stress in person that all these objects, small and large and large, cannot be put on marking boards on motorways. That's a fact. And if it is now aligned with the WTO and with other institutions, then I see no reason why it should not be realized. I doubt, however, that this is in harmony with such great desires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Majnik will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! As you know, I come from a city that has the oldest historical tradition in Slovenia. The area where the city of Ptuj lies was inhabited 3,000 years before our count. So our history is over 5,000 years old. And in all these millenniums, Ptuj was a crossroads of paths and directions. A small part of the planning and implementation of transport strategies is also the labelling of transport routes. If Ljubljana became the main Slovenian crossroads, it should also be marked, but unfortunately it is not. When the participant enters the east, the inscriptions on the boards lead to Austria and to Croatia. The main route from 2000 when Poetovio was the main intersection of the old amber and silk road, the intersection of roads east-west and north-south, when the border town with over 30,000 inhabitants and a number of Roman armies was simply not marked. None of the traffic signalling tables show that Hungary is also in this direction, although it is the biggest transit from Hungary to Italy and in the opposite direction. There is no sign anywhere of the corridor that all European documents have - of course we do - which Europe knows under the name of Panonika. This takes place from the Slovenian Bistrica, past Prague, through Ptuj and Ormož towards the Hungarian border. By marking as we have it now, we cut off the head and neck of Slovenia, which is like a chicken on a map. I ask you: When do you plan to correct this marking error? When will Panonika begin its work in an accelerated manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u315	Yes, now that you have asked several questions, of course, as well as some statements that I personally cannot fully agree with. The fact is that in some cases transport signalling may still be inconsistent, even flawed, and the fact is that it is improving significantly. So, I don't know exactly what you meant by Ljubljana, but in Ljubljana this year there was a very good traffic signalling on important crossings. Perhaps in this sense, as you mentioned, the direction towards Hungary - a little flawed. However, I say that the traffic signalling in Ljubljana itself is good, but it was carried out by the Ljubljana municipality and not by the Ministry of Transport. Otherwise, this signalling is carried out according to the Elaborate of Traffic Management on Motorways and Certain Fast Roads, and according to this Elaborate, both old and new motorway and expressway sections are also identified. However, I did not understand exactly the last question - when will work begin. They are carried out on sections subject to the national programme or subject of Darsa in accordance with the national programme or individual annual plans, and you are well aware of this either way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u317	Mr Presečnik, I am not talking about markings in the city of Ljubljana, I am talking about markings on the newly opened highway, where passengers are led by signs that this is the direction against Austria and against Croatia, this is the newly opened part of the highway in the direction of Lukovice. And there's no H anywhere that would indicate that this is also a course towards Hungary. And with this city Ljubljana has absolutely nothing, but the designers of such markings have obviously made a big mistake. That is why I urge you to warn them that this error is being corrected immediately, because this direction is definitive and exists and everyone is driving in this direction and should be marked.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u319	I take that as an initiative. But, as I said before, all these markings have been made according to the lab I mentioned earlier. Of course, your claim regarding freight traffic management is questionable, but this is how I understood it, through the city of Ptuj and further towards the Hungarian border, because it is necessary to take into account that we have some directions that are not suitable for freight transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Geza Juban will ask a question from the Prime Minister-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Are we waiting for the secretary general or is he listening on the other side?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u322	He's listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u323	Thank you very much. The question concerns the issue of payment of war compensation for material damage caused by the occupying party in 1941, 1945. We've known the story for a long time, and we listen. In fact, material war compensations and other world wars have lost all their real estate and movable property in certain cases. Many of these have already died, and their heirs have grown old, but the problem is still present. On 19.6.2003, the Government adopted a position and two conclusions on resolving the problem. In August, though, she also appointed the Inter-Resort Commission, which had not yet begun to operate. On the basis of its starting points, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is expected to open negotiations with the Republic of Germany on the payment of war compensation. The question is. Why hasn't this commission started working? And a second time. Is it, or is it not, negotiations with Germany on open issues related to the payment of these compensations? However, the National Assembly also adopted an additional decision on this request at its 43rd regular meeting, on 2 April 1996, which means a lot of demands, a few events, but there is no solution. Injurers would, of course, be satisfied with any option of compensation, but in view of all of this, nothing happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Bandelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u325	Thank you very much. I will try to answer, although this question too, of course, does not fall within my working powers and powers. But I can say: I know this issue to this extent that I know it is extremely complex, extremely difficult. According to some estimates, this is indeed a damage of about 400 billion tolars and the problem is not that simple. That is also why it has taken a long time in the government to join the organised way of resolving this issue. The Commission was first set up, in fact by a decision already cited, when the government also found that the issue in relation to Germany had not yet been completed or closed for Slovenia. I would not fully agree with the assessment, even though I do not know the work of the commission that nothing was done. Simply, so far, documentation has been collected and has been conducted in connection with data collection, exchange of experience, etc. Even after the foreign ministry's assurances, the reports prepared by the Ministry in this regard - so to speak, they will use every bilateral meeting in the foreign ministry to draw the attention of the Federal Republic of Germany to the fact that the damage caused during the occupation in 1941 - 1945 has not yet been settled. However, Germany has so far consistently advocated that all issues relating to the settlement of this damage and the correction of these injustices, as agreed by Tito and Bandt, are closed. Therefore, Germany has so far consistently rejected the possibility of negotiating this. However, negotiations cannot be held if they are not both parties to the negotiations. Thus, the matter is still open from this point of view. In fact, we are also aware of the problem in the government, and the government is also meeting on 20 November, based on the fact that these things are moving too slowly, raised the status of this commission to deal with this damage. It is now composed by ministers themselves. While this is coordinated by Minister Bizjak, as possibly the least involved in this subject, but only the fact that the government has raised the level suggests that the government has taken these issues seriously and that it has continued to resolve them. In my knowledge of the problem, however, I can almost claim that there will be no quick solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksic will ask the question of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u327	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the Minister of the Interior again. Indeed, the questions were raised as early as January of this year concerning the authorisation to carry out additional activities on farms. Farmers in the Slovenian Gorica received permission from administrative units in accordance with the law to carry out complementary activities, i.e. for the marketing and sale of flowers during the day of the dead. At that time, when I asked this question, it was 2002 during the first holidays of November, and this year the story was repeated. These same farmers obtained the same permits and, of course, went to the market and sold these flowers according to these permits. Last year, a market inspector came in and gave them a fine of 100,000 tolars. This year the story was repeated and, of course, they had to be removed from space. Last year I asked, "What's wrong with this legislation that ministries explain themselves differently?" And secondly, I said, Who will repay them the punishment they have paid because they have administrative permission to do so? And: Who will repay the material damage that has occurred to them? The Minister of the Interior sent a written reply stating that at the meeting of 5.2.2003, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food had found that there was no harmonised legislation governing complementary activities on farms. It is agreed that the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will harmonise the disputed legislation. So, a year passed, the legislation was not harmonised, the same farmers were recosted, double costs - material and penalties. Again, who's going to pay them back? And: Is it necessary to go and sue the state in order to receive a refund? However, they have, once again, the approval of the administrative authority, which has done so in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Respectable. As the Member of Parliament has already said, the administrative unit has issued a permit, which means that it has not caused any harm or, in its belief, has not breached the rules. The problem that has arisen is that the regulations are understood differently by the inspectorate, the market inspectorate, and it would therefore be an issue to address to the Ministry responsible for the market inspection, namely the Ministry of Economy. The administrative unit acted in accordance with the rules and also in such a way as not to cause any harm to the affected. But we also played, among other things, thanks to this question from a year ago, the role of some kind of mediator between the two ministries and tried to figure out what it was. The conclusion is that the actual legislation on agricultural land and trade activities is not consistent here, but I am very sorry to say that the Ministry of the Interior is not entitled to propose, as the honourable Member certainly knows the novelty of the law, neither on agricultural land nor on commercial activities, so this initiative will have to be addressed to the competent ministry. Probably, that's how we understand it in the Ministry of the Interior, it's the Ministry responsible for the economy. I can say so much, but it will have to be brought into line in this area so that there will be no such conflicts in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u331	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. It was my intention, in fact, to raise this question again to the Minister of the Interior, to draw attention to a problem that cannot be resolved even between the ministries. Well, even in this government, there's no way to solve the problem. How should one poor farmer who receives a permit from the administrative authority be relieved of it and, on the other hand, from the inspection body, from a ticket for payment of penalties and removal from a place where he had a purely legal permit to do so there. This means that we do not have a rule of law in this country, and this means that we have a "scrupulous" government where neither the ministries can and cannot agree on each other. Minister, thank you very much for your mediation role, although this was not even your task, but I wanted to say thank you to at least one who went in this direction. I will send the Ministry of the Economy complete documentation and, of course, the invoices they have received, and it will probably do it on the shortest route and the least cost to the state if it settles itself what it has produced as a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Špindler, I apologize to Mr Puksic, and also to the Minister of Justice. Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister of Justice! I posed a public question to the Attorney General, and I also sent her a letter, but as she told the media that when she received a letter from me, she would respond - she had been for over 14 days and had not responded. You yourself stated on the basis of my public question in the event and the reactions: "If this is a matter in which such control would be appropriate at this moment, then such an initiative is worth considering." Thank you so much for thinking like that. Of course, it seemed to me that this was the only logical thought, even though former Judge Šubic of that time said in the show, "It was personal injustice for me" and so on and, of course, the logical and professional consequence was that the appeal was dismissed. Mr. Minister, the logical professional consequence was that the New City prosecutor, Bricel, said that if he had gone along this roadside complaint, he would have come to the slippery slope. That's for Šubica, that's the answer. Anton Ribnikar, the former prosecutor publicly admitted on television that everything was legally correct, but the documentation was flawed because most of the documents from Elan were taken away. So it turns out that someone took advantage of the position, which is a criminal offence to damage social property. And, of course, the then head of the Krajina Prosecutor's Office admitted that out of 29 there were 9 complaints that came into the process, one of them was charged for some six months, and all the others - nothing. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you: What are you going to do in this case if the Attorney General does or starts running an institute of professional supervision? Even more so because recently in the newspaper Finance, Mag, and so on, "a good year after the opening of the disputed agreement on the billions prizes in Elan, to which the management team is entitled, led by Uroš Koržeta, has hardly happened". That means, the damaged and the social money are still being stolen. Well, let me get on with it. Third question I have. You know, I've already asked a question about corruption in the election campaign between SCT and Tele Star d.o.o., where the report says that 4 and a half million assets have been damaged. Now we read in the latest newspaper articles the headlines, "Jamnikar, we will request an explanation", "20 million for Kacin's campaign". Regarding what was happening here and what the newspaper says about the election campaign, it means that someone with money can buy an election. This is probably the biggest corruption that could ever happen. Mr Justice Minister: What will you do in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u335	Your Honor! You are describing your initiative to the Attorney-General, and in this regard I can assure you that, as regards an initiative that I do not otherwise know - its contents - because it has not been transmitted to me, but also to your question today. We will certainly receive a report from the Attorney-General and, of course, clarifications concerning your initiative. As you yourself have said, I myself advocate that certain principles be followed in determining professional control, when it is not a matter of regular, pre-planned controls. Therefore, whenever certain conditions are met where reasons arise, such control shall also be exercised. Now, as to what you are saying in the last part of your question, where you refer to newspaper articles, I cannot answer this moment, because I do not know if this is already in any way already in the prosecution procedure or not. If this is also the subject of prosecution, I will also obtain relevant reports on these issues and also answer this part of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u337	Thank you very much. See, the newspaper says: "We presented the papers to Milan Podgorsk, who led an election campaign for Ambassador Jelko Kacin in 2000. He confirmed that the papers we reported in the Evening, how the party promoted Kacin, were authentic, and that it had the same." Mr. Minister, it's 20 million, so it says, for Mr. Kacin's election campaign in Gorenjska. 20 million for the election campaign by 80 Members - about 80 of them have run because some are in two units - it is a billion 600. A billion 600 dollars! This can buy the country, and then rule and run the country. Minister, this is a very serious matter, and I am only asking you, namely, in the Evening, it also says - a lack of legislation - that in the Evening they have already pointed out the problem of insufficient legislation in the election campaign and so on. I ask you: Will you prepare any amendments to the electoral campaigns? Since this is a serious question, will you advocate for the introduction of verification procedures, what is written here? If it is from someone who was the leader of the electoral campaign and that the data - so he says - is credible, it is not even unsigned documentation, these are serious accusations. Indeed, Jamnikar and Golobič say that this was not guaranteed by the customer's gist of accounts. I believe that, but like the place of social property, it did not go legally, but it went through "by pass" companies or through poorly prepared or deliberately prepared legislation. A concrete example of deliberate legislation, thefts, is the Maribor TAM. Because so much and so much money has been accepted, which has then been distributed among those who have participated in this process of theft of social property.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u339	In view of such an additional question, I can also assure you that I will check or refer the question to the Attorney General, whether the prosecution is dealing with these issues, or whether it notes that there is a case where there are signs of official offences, and in short, a report on this from the point of view of the State Prosecutor's Office - if of course it is concerned. In any case, it will probably have to be defined by the fact that they actually represent newspaper records something that could be said to be a vote on a crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u341	Madam Vice President! Given that it is half past 30 hours and that even those ministers who regularly go to parliamentary questions, and given that some are coming very late, some are still waiting, I do not think it is right. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing that in the following questions, ministers who have not responded to them, because those who have not been here, finally answer the questions sent. It's not my duty to wait here for an hour and a half or two more, because some minister doesn't just go to question questions. And his fitness is more than just about being on the question or whatever, because it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u342	Please don't be insulting. Three ministers or two ministers and one minister are excused today for their other duties. I advise you to give this initiative, which is perfectly legitimate, to the College of the President of the National Assembly and I see no reason not to deal with it and also to agree that these issues are at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u343	Madam Vice President! This is a procedural proposal and I think we will vote on the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u344	These are the issues that are decided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly, and you are not the first to point out this today. And I see no reason not for the college representatives to seriously address this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u346	Please. Mr Jožef Špindler will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food two questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u347	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Nice and warm greetings! Despite this late hour, I will still ask a question that concerns the horsemen in particular. I ask the question on my behalf and on behalf of the Casarean horses or breeders of luzomerian-turnic origin from the luzomerian breeding area. I wonder: Why has the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food not yet implemented the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at its 59th meeting, 21.5.1996, when considering the proposal for laws on cobalt Lipica on the adoption of accelerated and promotional measures to breed luzomerous cashiers? This was also the case in this additional decision at the time of the adoption of the Kobile Lipica Act. That's the first question. I'll put another one in, so the minister can answer it all at once. Why is it allowed to be neglected in the Republic of Slovenia, especially in Ljubljana as the capital and the most important urban environment, by the development of the promotion of Kassak sport, a 150-year heritage of the breeding of cassak horses of domestic origin, of luzomeric-turnic origin? Ljubljana, as well as the first of the four Slovenian regional centres, is becoming the centre of breeding of cassacean horses of foreign origin, at the expense of breeding of cassacean horses of domestic origin. Will you take any measures to promote and promote the breeding of cassava horses of domestic origin? This is also part of the national and cultural heritage of the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u349	Thank you very much for asking. As regards the first question at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we are already providing funds for the public service in the field of the management of genealogical books, selection, selection, recognition of nobles, etc., including the breed of luzomerian butchers, with the tasks of this public service for the breeders of the Lzómmer reaper being free of charge. We have also been providing direct payments in the Minister for several years to support the rearing of mare for the rearing of foals. For this purpose, the mare of the laurel butcher is also included. In 2004, the Ministry will introduce a system for the identification and registration of equidae, where the Lztomer reaper will also be included under the same conditions as other breeds, horses in Slovenia. At the last meeting of the livestock council, the initiative of the Ljutomer Kasa club was discussed, where the following decision was adopted, I will read it: "The livestock council believes that the breed of butchers should be called a luzomer reaper, while it is necessary to lay down the conditions for animals to be met by animals of the luzomer reapers. In the event that the breed becomes an indigenous breed, Article 68 of the Law on livestock should be taken into account and the provision of funds within the framework of the genetic banks and direct payments for the conservation of indigenous domestic animals. The track for the Lz has to be prepared in accordance with the law in the field of equidae." It's about another question. By entering the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia has also adopted provisions on the legal order of the European Union in the field of zootechnical equipment. In accordance with this legal order of the European Union, it is unfortunately necessary to allow for both breed and participation in competitions for all butchers, irrespective of origin or breed. To this end, the Republic of Slovenia must enable and not hinder the participation of foreign horses in Slovenian competitions under the same conditions as for Slovenian breeds. Exceptionally, for individual events, competitions can be restricted to cashiers from other European Union countries. In this way, the Ministry may significantly interfere with the restriction of participation in cassava competitions at any hippodrome in Slovenia, but there is certainly a possibility that, by legal order, even from the legal order of the European Union, individual competitions and events intended solely to test the working capacity of butchers from domestic breeds should exceptionally be identified. To this end, the Ministry will also draw up a specific regulation enabling such events to be carried out. Therefore, if the Lochomer reaper, in accordance with the livestock law and in accordance with the Decision of the Bovine Council of 4.11. this year, meets the conditions for listing in indigenous breeds, will be included in the programme of the genetic bank, the Ministry will provide funds for this purpose, both within the framework of the genetic banks and direct payments for the conservation of indigenous breeds of domestic animals.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Mr. Spindler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u351	Mr. Minister, at this time of your ministry, we don't even have a single cassava connection. We have two connections today. In which European country do we have two relationships in which? We don't even have a single cash register! When she worked so long. I am over 60 years old and over 60 years old I have met the Kasa Association of Slovenia. And today, we're doing central cassava and cassava liaison, and we're keeping double records. Isn't it a shame about this domestic cashew breed? I think it's a shame. Another thing we are still doing is other mistakes to organise two cassava derboks in Slovenia. They don't do that anywhere in Europe, they all have one cashier's derby. We can't even get together here! And I think there's a part of the blame, the ministry -- I'm not saying you, but someone who's responsible. And I think at least in this winter time, these anomalies could be eliminated by next year. I recommend this in particular by the butchers of the Ljutomer area, which I represent and also advocate, because I have given relatively much of my time to the development of the Ljutomer cassacean sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you are absolutely right. I agree with you. This is very stupid, I apologize for the expression that we have two organisations in Slovenia. But it's primarily the fault of the foster parents themselves who don't know how to deal with each other. We as the ministry have tried to influence us several times as an arbitrator, but there has been no special success because everyone is on their side. In this case, at the Ministry, we have seriously considered that the temporary status of the breeding organisation would be taken over by the Ministry and allowed so much and so much time for the organisation to agree on each other. We offered different options, from one leading the genealogy books, to organizing both competitions and complementing each other, to other options. Unfortunately, after seven, eight meetings, which I myself have personally participated in in the last year and a half, there has not been much progress here. And the problem with the story is that the Ministry must take over the rule of law, on the basis of the rule of law, lay down the conditions to be met by a breed organisation and then grant status to those breeding organisations that fulfil the conditions. If one small Slovenia, which has a great tradition here, is unable by the foster parents of the mutual agreement, it is tragic. It is true, however, that in this case, if we grant one to another, not the status which both of them possibly fulfil, in the light of the rules that we as a State have to sign and have to comply with the acquis of the European Union, the other can appeal and, in some way, also receive the action. But it's all actually, in substance, - I mean, this legal part - it's pointless because it doesn't lead anywhere and it doesn't make any real sense. But I agree with you, but first there is a need for intelligence in the hands of the breeder to come to some understanding and reasonable thinking, and I think we are not far from finding this agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u354	Thank you very much. Unless you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u355	I'll ask the question myself because I have the right. I'm sorry I have to set it up. In a way, in Slovenia, horses that are not registered with us appear in central and cassacean links in Slovenia. Isn't that a sin? I think it's a sin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u357	You're right here, too. But we, as a country of Slovenia, have negotiated with the European Union in order to have only one breed of animals, that it is only one in the Slovenian space. You know, it's a crane bee. There's no such case. And the other thing is, what is the consciousness of the foster parents themselves?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u358	Thank you very much. And last today, Mr Jože Tanko, who will ask the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy and the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u359	Thank you for your word. The waiting time is really long, but we're gonna get through this. For the Minister of the Environment first. This year, the National Assembly adopted a housing law which entered into force in October. This is an extremely important law that affects both the allocation of non-profit dwellings, the subsidisation of rents, the regulation of housing relations and many other things. The law provides for the Ministry to issue a larger number of sub-legislative regulations to operationalise the law. One of those that the government should issue is also a rule on the broadcasting of non-profit dwellings. Since no new acts have been issued, there are still old rules which I believe are not in line with the applicable law in important parts. There is also fear that these regulations will apply for some time, for many will not be prepared. In addition, the provisions of the current Housing Law also refer to sub-laws which should be adopted in due time on the basis of a real legal code. These regulations were also adopted with great delay. Such a case is the rule on the criteria for determining the contribution of the floor owner to the reserve fund and on the minimum value of the contributions published two months after the deadline laid down by the real law. It is also a long delay in issuing sub-legislative acts which should be issued by the Minister on the basis of a law on the construction of buildings and the law on the regulation of premises. On the basis of the above, when will the Ministry of the Environment, Space and Energy prepare and issue the regulations required under the law on the basis of housing and other laws? And another question. Is there any problem with the implementation of laws because there is no law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Minister Janez Digač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u361	Thank you for your word. As far as housing law is concerned, ten sub-laws are provided for. This moment is in government procedure - if luckily it will be adopted next week - a regulation on the methodology for the calculation and enforcement of non-profit rent and on the criteria and procedures for the enforcement of subsidised rent. By the end of the year, however, a regulation on the labelling of dwellings and housing units will be adopted, and a regulation on minimum technical requirements for the construction of housing and housing and a regulation on standards for the maintenance of housing and housing units will be adopted. Furthermore, the Regulation on Minimum Technical Conditions to be met by residential buildings for special purposes. Four sub-legislative acts: these are instructions on the preparation of the report on the work of the administrator, the rules on the criteria for determining the value of dwellings and housing houses, the rules on the work of the housing council and the rules on the specific operating conditions of non-profit housing organisations - are in fact less important than those previously mentioned - will be issued in the first months of the following year. Exactly. For a month, I can't exactly say when. None of these sub-legislative acts impedes the implementation of housing law in practice, as the housing law also provided for the regime during the transitional period - what happens until such time as it does not. And the same applies to the building law and the law on the regulation of premises. There, right now, I'm not ready to answer exactly how many sub-laws have already been adopted. The fact is that most of them are already under the building law and even less than half of them are under the land regulation law. I expect, however, that by about May next year, everyone will be accepted and established, except for the spatial development strategy and the spatial order of Slovenia, which depends on parliamentary consideration. There are also no problems with the implementation of the law in practice, but it is true that if there is no law-abiding act, then the old regime is moving forward from the previous law and we have not achieved what we wanted. That is why, of course, we are working very intensively to prepare these sub-laws, and I want them as soon as possible. However, believe that this is extremely extensive material, professionally very difficult, and above all we are trying to reconcile it with all the organisations concerned from the Engineering Chamber and the Chamber of Commerce, the Chambers of Architects and Spatial Designers and so on and so on and all of this is of course difficult to complete quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u363	Well, here is the first question: In adopting the law, the Ministry has provided for more or less time limits for adoption of these sub-legislative acts. There were prescribed relatively long arms, I think about six months. This also finally raises the question of planning or capacity to properly prepare and implement these matters in a timely manner. For I myself cannot agree with the thesis that there is no problem if there is no need for submarital acts or if they are not adopted, because in this case, it is a question of why there is any need for submarital acts at all if the law works without it. And I think that certain things should probably also be complemented and finalized in these respects, because if a law30 has a sub-law or a residential 10 and operates using old acts, old sub-laws written on another basis, then there is probably something wrong: either the law does not mean enough changes or it is a copy or a copy of that old law. And in this area, perhaps certain things should be more qualitative and also carefully set.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u364	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u365	The housing law has 10 sub-laws. As soon as these sub-laws are adopted after the law is in force - I think there is almost no comparison with any other system law. The Housing Law was enacted in October, as you know, most of the main sub-laws will be adopted within two months of the entry into force of the Housing Act. Tell me some other system law where it was made so quickly. However, in the law on the construction of buildings and the law on the regulation of premises, there are some 35 acts under the law together, for both laws. These two laws are a major systemic change. All the previous suits haven't changed this law in 20 years. And I'm asking you to understand, we can't put the whole system on a new one overnight either, along with the sublegal acts. I have the working proposals of all the sub-laws on the table, but we prefer to coordinate and ensure that we do not then correct these sub-legislative acts. If I wanted to stick strictly to the hand in the marriage, but it was only indicative, I could have sent them to the Official Gazette by now. But I don't think that would contribute to quality. Once these sub-laws are adopted, then there will be no more legislative work in this spatial area, except for the implementation of the law in practice and a new generation of spatial acts by municipalities. This is, of course, one extremely great effort, which is being made by a very small group of people. We got you and no one else. And 20 years ago, no suit did it, and we're gonna do it in two years. But in one year, we can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko is also a question for the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u367	Thank you. At the beginning of this school year, all primary schools had to move to a nine-year-old age, thus completing a multi-year period of adaptation and gradual introduction of large-scale and challenging primary education reforms. The reform was well planned, professionally introduced and monitored and excellent media support. Nevertheless, the reform has cut the current family rhythm considerably, has burdened the youngest children with regular and consistently planned content, has brought early obligations for families and, in some cases, substantially changed conditions for the implementation of the primary and pre-school programmes. There was also a need for extensive investment in the preparation of the implementation premises. In practice, the introduction of a nine-year-old also faces problems. There are too many educated staff and places in kindergartens, since in one generation it is not possible to replace and provide other programmes and other content. In particular, these problems have burdened smaller congregations, which will certainly also be reflected in higher service prices, and the burdens will be distributed exclusively to the congregations and to the rest of the parents. Some schools have problems as they cannot provide a continuous educational process and are forced to prepare schedules with interruptions. During this time, students have different alternative learning spots, they can go to the library, and there is also a process, and children or students are under much less supervision at that time, and they are often left behind with their own initiatives. There is also a much higher burden on students, since in the same age group, between two and four hours longer than eight-year-olds have a compulsory weekly curriculum, although it has been pointed out in the same age group; and this is likely to have consequences in later years. I wonder: What are the trends in primary education in Europe? I wonder: Does the Ministry have the costs of reform which the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the educational and social institutions and municipalities had to provide for the preparation and introduction of a nine-year-old? And I also wonder: What are the responses of parents and teachers to this reform? But I want an oral response to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-24-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The honourable Member and Members, who have endured to the end, thank you very much for the questions raised. Of course, I also thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers for the answers given. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night to all.
