ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! I will be very grateful if you take your seats so that you can begin the 35th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I also ask the others not to interfere with the opening of the sitting. I convened the meeting on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Only three of our colleagues and colleagues are detained due to other obligations: colleague Battelli, until 5:00 p.m. colleague Marija Ana Tisovic and colleague Lenko, who is already here. So to speak, no one in this session will be missing in the debate and decision-making. We will first set the agenda for the 35th extraordinary meeting, and I note that I have not received any proposals for withdrawal and expansion in business time and that the National Assembly could decide by voting on the draft agenda as you have received by reference. Could you please check the functioning of your voting devices so that there is no complication in the decision-making process? Please be so kind. Do it. Is everything okay? Is there no reservation to the decision? Okay. Then we will now decide on the agenda of the 35th extraordinary session. May I have your attention, please? The National Assembly is moving on to a decision. We vote on the agenda of the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. 65 present, 56 for and 1 for. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 35th Extraordinary Session has been set. That way we can move on to the agenda. Before that, I will ask for a moment of your attention and understanding. In connection with this meeting, I would like to inform you of the agreement on the duration of the meeting as adopted at the College. But it's obvious that there's one thing we understand differently about our agreement, at least that's how I understood it. [[you have also received this written in the draft timeline]] That we will decide on all items of the agenda after we conclude the last, 15 minutes after that. While some colleagues understood that we would decide after we had concluded the last day. I think it is best that the leaders of the parliamentary groups who are here and what are here in the House of the National Assembly be consulted very briefly, to see whether there is any major misunderstanding or not, or whether we will be working today around 10: 00 a.m. without deciding on agenda items, tomorrow until about the same time and then on Wednesday, if that is necessary. However, if a different agreement were to be reached today, as far as the Presidency is concerned, we can lead one way or another. That's why I'm gonna interrupt the session in a few minutes. But please, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, if we can gather here, in the hall. Let me inform the National Assembly that we will resume the meeting at 14.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u2	Before that, I would like to inform you of what we have agreed. We felt that it would be most appropriate if all the points that we would have done today by 9 a.m. or 21 p.m. were also prepared for decision-making and today we decided on them. By not deciding on more than ten important decisions on Tuesday night or Wednesday to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution at the same time. We'll continue at 2.10 p.m. I invite everyone to return to the hall, as we agreed on the order in which the points are dealt with. Together with the vice-president who will lead the evening session, this is Dr Brace, we will agree that around nine we will assess the point with which we will conclude today's debate and move on to the decision on this day. Tomorrow we'll continue roughly the same. And if there's a lot of time left, we'll continue on Wednesday. I would like to continue Wednesday morning, and in this regard I will also consult the presidents of those working bodies who were planning the work of the National Assembly at that time. We will proceed with the opening of the procedure for amending the Constitution under EPO 708/II, close the debate and immediately move on to the next item on the agenda until 21:00, when we move on to the first decisions today. If there's no objection, and there's going to be ten minutes past two, I'd suggest we start with one. Agenda item, namely the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, EPA 708/II. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 143 of the Constitution was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague of Lavrinsk. Let me say that, as President of the Constitutional Commission, not in this regard, nor in other proposals, I will not have an introduction, just to remind myself that the Constitutional Commission has been working for three years, has prepared a proposal in a procedural manner so that today the National Assembly can decide on it with the majority necessary for a decision to be taken. In this sense, I will, of course, give the floor first to the applicants. The proposal to initiate the procedure was therefore addressed by the Constitutional Commission. She reported to the assembly in writing. A government representative will also be able to get the word if he so wishes. A total time of 2 hours and 49 minutes is foreseen for the debate. We will first hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Alojz Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, followed by his colleague Celigoj of the DeSUS Group Please, colleague Lavrinc, would you like a word? Please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It'll be shorter than five minutes. In particular, I wanted to say that, although this proposal for a change of constitution, which is so small, it is nothing more than the door covering for some further proceedings, it has been here for a long time, that it has been tabled in the previous term, that the first-signed now is a constitutional judge and also at the time a constitutional law professor at the Faculty of Law. That, according to the principle that politics is possible art, we have tried to do just that and nothing more to start a discussion on the establishment of landscapes, that it is underestimated in these political overplays, so to speak, the importance of establishing landscapes. There are many discussions about Europe as a Europe of regions, a Europe of landscapes. And we don't even give a constitutional permit to say so. For this reason, our aim was to allow, by deleting this article, the law, which would be the subject of an agreement and consensus, and to enable it in this way, as constitutional lawyers have said, to acquire Article 138 of the Constitution, but unfortunately we have failed. Even if I were to lead - now this is not a criticism, President, on your account - but if I were to lead, let's say I would make my own decisions, I would combine these two proposals, just like the one that is government. Because the government is more comprehensive. Since the government is such that it allows not only this, it allows even more, it allows even more rational administration. How many critics are on this account, both in space and in people, if you go anywhere, things don't move. And even though I tell you, I am personally convinced that if we are, so until the formation of the landscapes, let these Slovenian landscapes be, for the time being, based primarily geographically, demographically and so on, if we do not come to this, these problems that are, and this is too bad and keep quiet about it, or put your head in the sand, will be even bigger, we will continue to talk, so, I don't know, the Styrians so, I don't know the centralists in Ljubljana but so. So I think that for the normal development of the country, although it is small, small and so on, this is still important, and of course I plead for it, because, as they say, there is no obstacle if we undermine this proposal, which is at some point, I don't know now either weakness or something else of the people's party, get enough support to go through the process forward, how and what content, but here is the final thing of the agreement. So a very nice or high-quality conclusion, so to say, to change the constitution would be, of course, if we combine this and what the government has proposed, we also form a position here that will be acceptable to those who so far have sceptically looked at this, at the formation of the landscapes. Thank you very much, Mr. President, that will be all.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Proposer, colleague Lavrinc. The word wants the government? Have I been informed for a short minute, Mr. Secretary. Then, as I have foretold, in the order of my fellow Sok. Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u5	Your Honor! In the minute I've been assigned, I can tell you the following. Despite many initiatives and landscapes, we have not been able to establish provinces in Slovenia in the 12-year constitutional period. From this I can implement, as well as most professions and policies, that this was an obstacle to the constitutional system, specifically in Article 143 of the Constitution. If we support Maximilian Lavrinz's proposal, we will remove one of these obstacles. That's why the government is supporting Maximilian Lavrinz's proposal. This will meet part of the requirement for the establishment of regionalism in Slovenia, but not all. In order to be fully exposed to constitutional conditions, it is also necessary to adopt the Government's proposal to intervene in paragraphs 120 and 140. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Now, as announced, Comrade Sok first. You will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, behind you, Comrade Celigoj and so on. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u7	Honorable President, Minister and co-workers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! It would be really best for these two proposals to be dealt with together, as my speaker said. It seems to me that we will repeat ourselves in many ways in these two debates. Thus, the provision so far in Article 143 of the Constitution is written in such a way that the Constitution does not provide for the compulsory establishment of wider local communities, but, on the basis of this Article, municipalities may decide and merge independently into provinces or possibly other wider self-government local communities in order to regulate certain common matters. We also understand this provision of Article 143 of the Constitution in Novi Slovenije, and we strongly believe that it is not necessary to delete Article 143 of the Constitution in order to establish the provinces, regions or whatever we call it. This is also due to the fact that the Constitution is the most important act and to change the Constitution very often is not the most appropriate way to resolve certain matters that can be resolved in a different way. We are convinced that by this time the government has not done what is necessary to actually bring the congregations together into a wider local community, that is, into the provinces or regions. If the government would like to do enough in this area, then it should come more than the draft law on the provinces. The Law on Provinces was adopted in 1999 in a previous reference to the National Assembly, but the tasks to be performed by the provinces were very broad in this law. In this way, certain communal activities, then energy activities, certain educational activities, then activities in the development of the economy and trade and agriculture, are to be carried out jointly by certain joint activities in the field of transport regulation, then certain activities in relation to natural and other accidents, the regulation of space and the protection of the environment and some other public services, as well as joint activities in the field of the protection of natural and cultural heritage. So, all of this has been written into some vast, undefined concept of what the provinces are supposed to be in the future and what the state should be prepared to transfer to such established provinces, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. In this we also see one of the main reasons why this matter or the regulation of this area of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia has not moved from a dead point. Moreover, the biggest flaw in this law, which was adopted by the previous Parliamentary call, was the area of funding. The law stated that the province was financed by its own resources. What are these assets supposed to be? The law doesn't speak. It is then intended to be financed by state resources, namely that the State is prepared to give up part of its income and by means of local communities. We believe that the financing plan so set up is rather unclear and that, in fact, there has been a lot of concern and a reasonable expectation if the provinces are set up to harm both the jurisdiction and the financial resources of the municipalities, which the State would then simply transfer to the area of financing of the provinces. Even now, we know that in Slovenia 4 to 5% of gross social product is allocated for the purpose of the operation of municipalities, which is between the Member States of the European Union at least or on the tail itself. The only thing this law, which was adopted in the first reading in 1999, clearly defined which authorities the future province should have. In this way, the provinces would have somehow favored provincial councils, and they would also have provincial committees appointed by the congregational councils and the provincial chief. Of course, it is already clear that such a solution to the administrative structure of the provinces would mean an increase in red tape and, of course, the use of funds for this purpose. The government is now telling us that it is necessary to establish the provinces for reasons of centralisation, and centralisation is supposed to be the result of the division and formation of many municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, in New Slovenia as an opposition party, we cannot agree to such an argument, because if anything is responsible for excessive centralisation in this country, which is actually excessive, it is the work of this government or in this government coalition, not the creation of small municipalities, which have evolved intensively since their creation, especially in the area of municipal infrastructure. For a small municipality cannot be held accountable for the fact that the government, I do not know, has started centralisation in the field of administrative tasks such as the geodetical administration, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, to undertake centralisation in the field of inspection services at this time. On the one hand, this centralisation has in fact achieved no financial impact, because if you look at the budget, it is constantly increasing year after year for the functioning of the state administration. Nor has the number of employees decreased, and we can say that there has been an increase. It is true, however, that the effect of these centralisations is only one, and this is that our service has somehow drifted away from our citizens. Moreover, the Government's argument that more coherent regional development will begin with the establishment of the provinces is at stake. I am personally sure and I cannot agree to a government argument that this will be the case. If today you turn Prekmurje, which is in the developmental sense among the most deprived regions in the Republic of Slovenia, into a province, of course, this does not mean that then this status will mean that the province's status will move faster so that the number of unemployed will decrease unless, of course, you think you will hire them in the state bureaucracy. If we want the regions to develop more evenly and more rapidly, we need to be implemented more quickly and as is the case with the law on coherent regional development. To ensure that this law is not enforced, at least for our sub-regional statistical region, it is a great blame on the government itself, which has allowed three development agencies to be established in this statistical region, and these three development agencies are now competing with each other for funding for project preparation. The consequence of all this is that there is no agreement between them that there are no projects and that, as far as this is concerned, we will not be able to apply for calls for European funds, the funds of European funds. Let me finish. In Novi Slovenija we do not oppose the origin of the provinces, but the provinces must, and we are deeply convinced of this, come from below, they must arise, as our inhabitants see them and our people want them. Before that, people need to know clearly and clearly what the landscape will mean in an administrative sense and what the province will mean as such in a financial sense, in terms of financial burden for citizens and citizens. Before any deletion of the articles of the Constitution or amendment of the articles of the Constitution, which is then covered by the next reading point, it is in the opinion of New Slovenia that a law on the provinces should be drawn up, a law which will clearly show what these provinces are. But everything else is kind of, and I could also use it, motion blindly or, if I say so by our own, domestic, invoicing accounts without the innkeeper. All the way to the end. We, in the New Slovenia Group, will not support the deletion of Article 143 of the Constitution. And we don't think that's why the provinces didn't come. The reasons for this are much deeper and broader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. I will put my word behind you to my colleague Celigo, who will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. He's been followed by a colleague of mine. First, Comrade Cheligoy. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the DeSUS Group, we welcome all efforts made by the Constitutional Commission and the National Assembly to establish another, intermediate level of local self-government that will work between the level of municipalities and the state. Our party is also programmed to establish landscapes, based on the experience of the Member States of the European Union and its own development potential. In the programme, we make it clear that the country must also transfer to the original jurisdiction of the provinces those tasks which will be carried out more effectively and in accordance with the interests of the people and that the municipalities should transfer from their jurisdiction to the provinces those matters which they would do better at the country level. Two proposals are among the concrete proposals for amendments to those articles of the Constitution which allow for the establishment of the provinces before this High Council, of which the government proposal did not receive the necessary majority in its consideration at the Constitutional Commission. The first proposal, by a first-signed colleague of Maximilian Lavrinci, which provides for the deletion of Article 143, makes it possible to establish a second level of local self-government under Article 138 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to local self-government in municipalities and other local communities. In this case, however, we are talking about regions. What are regions is not precisely defined, so the question arises whether a new political agreement is needed in this regard, which is not yet achieved by the adoption of a specific law, unless defined in the Constitution. We therefore estimate that in this case we will again lose a huge amount of valuable time in which we could already do a lot in this area. To the extent that the matter was already more specifically defined. We must not forget that when adopting a special law on landscapes, it can be politically stuck to these issues that we are dealing with today. After 1 May next year, Slovenia will become a full member of the European Union. In the Union, however, there is a possibility of drawing financial resources from the second level of local self-government of the Member States: countries, provinces, regions. Due to the absence of only these, Slovenia can be regarded in the future as one region which, on average, achieves exactly the same development that it would not be entitled to the resources allocated by the Union for the development of those who are below the average of development in the European Union. This would also accelerate the differences within our country between the quotations, the centre and the periphery. In the final stage, this is not only a project for the European Union, but mainly for ourselves. In the DeSUS Group, we support and seek to change the Constitution and to clearly define the second level of local self-government, whether it will be a province or a region. In terms of ensuring the widest possible political agreement on this important issue for our country, and even more so for our citizens who live and deserve quality services at all levels in this country. Above all, bringing state institutions closer to citizens through decentralisation and deconcentration. Therefore, we believe that the current situation is unsatisfactory and we therefore believe that, in anticipation of a satisfactory solution, it is also likely that the most appropriate solution would be such as to include a combination of the two proposals. Proposal by Mr Lavrinc and the Government. Members of the DeSUS will therefore be making a decision in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Kontič. My friend Peca first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u11	Your Honors are here! We are also convinced in the National Party's Group that it would make sense and wise if the National Assembly, under the same substantive point, dealt with both the proposal of the Group of Members and the government proposal. The fact is that both points connect together and represent some kind of conclusion and end. We fear that it might happen that this national council will accept one of the solutions and reject the other. This, of course, will not take us any further. However, speaking of a step forward, it is important to stress that, according to the position of the Slovenian National Party, this country could have taken a step in the provinces a long time ago. The fact is that the already existing 143rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia makes it possible to establish, establish and revive the provinces. But unfortunately there was no political will. According to my assessment, it was not primarily the will of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which did not find the right answer, which is always the case, who will lead the provinces and what administrative apparatus will represent the provinces. So today, after so many years, we still have no provinces. Only because of the greed of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and those parties who run this country and who do not want to let these territorial organisational units run through their fingers. In the national party, we claim that, on the basis of the existing Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, this constitution, which has been following us for several years and which is purposefully written very rigidly, is the first time that it is adopted with the necessary qualified majority and the second time that it accurately prescribes an individual change procedure, requires that we are in front of the world and, more importantly, say ourselves, we have a quality constitution, a constitution that cannot simply change the political option that is in power right now. This was also realized by the Slovenian municipalities. Many Slovenian municipalities have long since sent a bill on this and this province to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this National Assembly. Since the congregations have already decided in our history that they want to have a province, they have given initiatives, we have had marriage proposals, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has rejected everything, for those two reasons that I mentioned at the outset. I'm sorry. In the national party, we are confident that, once again, regrettably, the story of the province will repeat with that story about so-called local communities where we received more municipalities from year to year. Why? The government supported it. Why did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia support this? In order to lose a compatible interlocutor in the municipalities, to create confusion with 190 and several municipalities and, of course, to take away some kind of negotiating position from those places of Slovenia that are somehow away from the centre. And we fear that the same will happen to the provinces, that in the final phase over so many and so many years we will get another number of provinces that will have neither the powers nor the finances provided, will have guaranteed elections and political representatives in these bodies, but nothing else. Because the fact is that this has happened to Slovenian municipalities, which today, at least in the legislative process or any other procedure before the legislative branch of power or the executive branch of power, have no possibility, they have no representative, because this is not at the will of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To talk about the theory provided or advocated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to allow the provinces to process decentralisation, it holds, in part, to the extent that the number of provinces will not be too large and to the extent that the same government will not work against its own domains or aspirations. Two and three months ago, or three months ago, we met with the law on the principal place where we were in advance or where you, in the national party, opposed, had previously said that no state institution originating from the judiciary, originating from the legislative branch of power or the executive branch, could be anywhere other than in Ljubljana, even more, you extended all three branches of authority and also wrote in the first article that no European institution could be anywhere else than in Ljubljana. So, what do we do with the provinces? We have provided in advance or assured that no institution should be in the provinces or in the local communities. Then how can this National Assembly or Government of the Republic of Slovenia talk about centralisation? Unfortunately, these two ideas just don't go together. No one would want more, not in this National Assembly or in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but in the national party, to create some strong landscapes that would be able to carry out the things that municipalities, on the one hand, impose on them, namely local communities, on the other hand, imposed on them by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all that with a common denominator, is to ensure a better and better quality of life of customers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as another austere argument why it is appropriate to approach the provinces, cites a coherent regional development. My colleague told me that Slovenia has in one way or another a huge number of different agencies, which are supposed to accelerate coherent regional development, these are those implementing institutions that are actually responsible for the lack of coherent regional development. Who's to blame? Are the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia guilty? Unfortunately, I must stress once again that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is guilty because it did not find a solution because it did not want to find a solution. In the existing Slovenian legislation, we have several acts talking about the provinces, so paragraph 143, once again, stressing that it has so far allowed the landscapes to have. Some congregations that wanted to have a province were already hanging on this 143rd article, and so far there have been a number of provisions in the law on local self-government that speak in favour of the province that have not yet been implemented. In the Slovenian National Party, we generally do not care what the reasons for establishing the provinces are. We want the provinces, we want as few landscapes as possible so that this unit, organisational, can function. At the same time, we would also like to have the answers that will allow the provinces not only to be one of those pillars that retain a certain administration, i.e., the most important question or answer is the jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the provinces, what they can deal with or what they will have to deal with, and we must not leave the issue of financing to the side. Because, the fact is, if the state blocks funding, then the province will not exercise jurisdiction. A serious approach by both the Group of Members and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the question so far would require a different approach to our assessment of the constitutional matter of the provinces, i.e. the approach that would presuppose or determine the answers to the most important questions and, once again, the most important question, i.e. the tasks of the provinces, has not yet been decided. There is a proposed amendment or deletion of article 143, which carries nothing or saves nothing for itself, so we will be left with what the government will suggest for us to resolve a matter. So far, however, it has been shown that there is no desire for this resolution, because the fact is that we do not know today and unfortunately do not know what the powers are and what funding is, that is, two open and most important issues. Of course, in the national party, we will not oppose the changes to the Constitution in this area, because, however, it makes sense to get to this kind of territorial arrangement as soon as possible. It would make even more sense, however, to come to such an arrangement that would truly enable the recovery and political and substantive recovery of such landscapes. However, we fear and today express this scepticism that by implementing or implementing both constitutional changes, i.e. the constitutional change to which my speech refers now and the constitutional change that follows, we will not achieve anything substantive, except another debate, I repeat, another fruitless debate on the provinces. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were to be assured of all outstanding issues and recognition of its own responsibility, why the province is not yet present, although the legal and constitutional matter allows it to do so, of course, constitutional changes with so much greater joy would also be supported. Once again, we will not oppose the proposal to amend the Constitution at this point in the national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u12	Thank you very much, buddy. My colleague Bojan Kontic will now present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by colleague Tsukati. First of all, as I say, Comrade Kontic. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Equal regional development is strongly linked to the establishment and active functioning of the regions. The desire to establish the provinces is present in Slovenia from the very change of the political system. Of course, at the time of our adoption of our Constitution, we have been trying to make regional regulation a mandatory component of constitutional regulation. Only regionalism and the representation of regional interests were the creators of the current constitution in writing. At that time, the majority decided that only the so - called integration of the congregations from below was variable. And so there was a 143rd article, which after the reform of local self-government, by which we established a large number of very different municipalities, and from previous state tasks transferred to the state administration and thereby further strengthened centralism, prevented the formation of provinces. The compromise adopted in Article 143 of the Constitution mentions the provinces and leaves the formation of them to a separate and voluntary decision of the municipalities. What was no longer possible at the time, the opportunity for the formation of congregations and provinces was missed, and congregations were formed, and the province is not there to this day. Our greatest expert in this field, Dr. Schmidtovnik, had already announced in 1992 that a constitutional solution would not lead to the introduction or formation of the provinces. At the same time, we have important institutions in the country that are already regionally formed. It is true that they are territorially different, but they certainly are and work successfully. The desire to establish the provinces is certainly also locally present. Several proposals for laws establishing individual provinces have been tabled on the basis of the current constitutional regime. Even in the previous term of our congregation, one of them successfully finished his first hearing, the Koror region. It also dealt with the Law on Provinces in the previous term of office at the time of Article 143 of the Constitution, which seemingly allows for the integration of municipalities and in fact prevents the formation of provinces throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the first signed by Dr Cyril Ribič, the Members of the United List of Social Democrats signed a proposal to amend the Constitution, i.e. the deletion of 143 members of the Constitution. The deletion of this Article allows for the establishment of provinces by law, pursuant to Article 138 of the Constitution. This is not the best solution, as we see obstacles in two more articles of the Constitution, if we want complete regionalisation by transferring certain tasks of the country to a regional level. At the same time, the amendment does not provide for a clearer obligation to a two-stage local government. The Special Section of the Constitutional Commission on Regionalism also considered that it would be more reasonable than deleting Article 143 only to replace this by a different definition of the provinces. The adopted amendment to the Constitution will allow us to adopt a law that will set out all the necessary elements for the effective functioning of the provinces mentioned in the expert’s professional contribution, Dr Šmidovnik. The territorial element that says that the provinces are set up as bodies of local self-government is then the functional element here that these communities are recognised and provided with a field of work that expresses the interests of their people. It follows an organisational element that says that the tasks of this community are performed by members of the community under their own responsibility, whether directly or indirectly through their directly elected bodies. The following is a material and financial element which provides that the local community has its own financial and material resources to carry out its tasks. And last but not least, a legal element that recognizes to the community the property of a legal person. The elements of this status cannot be provided by the municipality, but only by the state with the Constitution and the law. However, because of the current 143rd Article of the Lands Act, this could not be regulated because the provinces would in fact establish municipalities and not states after this 143rd Article. Despite these concerns, the Members of the United List of Social Democrats have supported the opening of a procedure to amend the Constitution, which provides for the deletion of Article 143, on the Constitutional Commission. We will do the same for Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats this time. We'll support the initiation of the procedure. It has been 12 years since the adoption of the Constitution, and since then there has been no province. A number of proposals have been tabled for the establishment of the provinces, which, of course, reflects the will of local communities and the majority of their inhabitants. So the desire, interest and need arising from practice on the one hand, and our constitutional arrangements on the other. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we have decided to support the efforts of all, including experts, to change the constitution and enable the formation of landscapes by law, which will fully regulate regionalisation in Slovenia. This will create landscapes as autonomous local communities that will carry out the tasks of wider local importance beyond the capacity of municipalities and at the same time the matters of regional importance that are defined by law. In addition, they carried out a certain part of the tasks of the state administration. The adoption of a law that will fully regulate the establishment, jurisdiction, financing and organisation of the provinces will be possible. This would therefore mean that such a secondary local government, which is not the right term, will not only be limited to inter-agency cooperation. Such an established province will be an intermediate level between the government and the municipalities. The principle of subsidiarity and decentralisation and better regional development will therefore be applied. These are the contents that are close to us in the United List of Social Democrats and we will support their implementation. In doing so, we are convinced that the introduction of the provinces does not mean a decrease in the autonomy of the congregations. Unfortunately, we also know that the introduction of the provinces only by deleting Article 143 means the postponement of the reform for the future. However, given that this is a step towards the intended objective of systemic regulation of regionalisation, we will support the proposal to initiate the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Comrade Contic. Mr Cukjat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u15	Good-bye, Your Honor! Well, here we are - at the beginning of the debate on a whole series of constitutional changes. We have therefore begun with the question of amendment to Article 143, where there is talk about the provinces. That we want the landscapes is probably clear and probably there is no one here to question the need for decentralisation of the country and to take into account and incorporate the principle of subsidiarity into our legal system, including as regards local self-government, for sure. However, just deleting this article does not bring us any closer to that goal. The very idea, the very reason, just an excuse to delete, that this article is an obstacle to the establishment of the provinces, is, in its own words, attracted to the hair. Even the expert group said in explanation, quote: "The current 143rd article of the Constitution, according to the general opinion of the Slovenian public, prevents the establishment of the provinces." They did not say that this article prevents the establishment of the provinces, but, once again, "by the general opinion of the Slovenian public". Well, if this expert group were even more accurate, I would say, in the opinion of some Members. Because already after the current scheme, after the current approach, we have cases where a number of municipalities have agreed, expressed a desire to establish the province, addressed it to the National Assembly and, of course, failed. If it were political will, then the state would prepare the conditions for establishing the provinces, offer the system, propose a system of how this is established and also propose the transfer of powers and the financing of the provinces. And if, of course, such a proposal were to be open to the congregations, which should be, since the provinces were to be addressed to the provinces or to the local population, then it would certainly show an interest in the provinces. In these circumstances, under these conditions for the establishment of the provinces, we could also install many things, and a number of conditions would be open to congregations to accept so that they could and should establish the province. So the argument that this is impossible after the current stop, it's a little short. The second is the opinion of the expert group, which says, quote: "The deletion of the article only removes obstacles to the establishment of the landscapes, and the state does not oblige it to establish the provinces." So the second opinion denies its previous opinion, saying again about some obstacles, but he probably thinks about the previous obstacles, the obstacles that the people are imagining. However, it is important that this second part, where the expert group says, "does not oblige the state to establish the province." The deletion of the article even makes it impossible for the State to transfer certain matters from its jurisdiction to the municipalities. Therefore, if this is so that the deletion of the article would mean that the transfer of powers is now impossible, then of course it is very questionable whether it makes sense to delete this article. Because of this and, in particular, of the desire to offer the municipalities, the local population such a process of establishing the provinces that would be acceptable to them and that the country would also show a certain interest and effort in this direction, as all Members are aware, our party has already proposed a different approach, which, of course, includes or takes into account that Article 143 remains to be replaced. So, in order to be able to attach to the constitution a way of establishing the provinces, but by taking into account the wishes of the local population, we will insist on our proposal, which is familiar to you and, of course, we will not propose or agree to delete this article. In further procedures and in further discussions, I hope that we will nevertheless find a common approach to the drafting of this Article and that we will not only experience a deletion without replacing the article with an appropriate dictatorship and with an appropriate solution. Thus, we feel that the deletion alone is not appropriate, and we will continue to try to find a better solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Mr Rokavec will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. After him, my friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia needs provinces. Slovenia needs provinces where citizens and citizens will feel that they are actually in their interest. Of course, a number of questions have been raised over a period of more than a decade in establishing the provinces. The question of the procedure or method of establishing the provinces, the issue of financing the landscapes, the question of their competences and, last but not least, the historical facts which are negligible in this area. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support the proposal by the Members' Group to delete Article 143 because the government proposal is a better basis, a better basis for resolving this issue. The reasons for such a decision are as follows: Article 143 does not provide for a comprehensive amendment of the Constitution in the area of the provinces. In fact, the fact is that we could then only link to Article 138 of the current Constitution, which says that the inhabitants of Slovenia exercise local self-government in municipalities and other local communities. It is called an article that is unclear and that can also lead to vague conclusions or solutions. The deletion of Article 143 does not guarantee any role of the municipalities in the establishment of the provinces, which, according to our Group of Members, is one of the key. In fact, the fact is that municipalities have to play a very key role in the formation of the provinces if we want only these to be caught up in, so that we will not be able to detect over the years, as the Czech Republic also finds after two years of the establishment of the provinces the importance of the establishment of the provinces. The proposal by the Group of Members also does not address the issue of the transfer of the State’s powers to the municipal or provincial level, which is probably one of the key. Indeed, it would be possible to resolve the problem, to carry out the tasks of the state administration in the intermediate space between the State and the municipalities, as the provinces could be given powers to carry out the tasks delegated to them. With the deletion of Article 143, the province may establish a majority of the Members and Members present in the National Assembly. Thus, by such a decision, we could empower the minimum necessary majority in the National Assembly to set up a second level of local self-government in our country. We believe that the project to establish landscapes must be a project of all political groups represented in the National Assembly or a very large majority. In doing so, we reiterate that municipalities must play a very important role when setting up a second degree of landscape, if not even decisive. At the same time, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that, during all this time, both the Government and the National Assembly have been insufficient to do more in the context of existing constitutional solutions. In the second reading, we remained in the procedure of the law establishing the provinces. There have been several proposals for establishing landscapes, special laws, but so far we have not done anything in the parliamentary procedure. If we had adopted at least one law, such as that of the province of Koroz, we could have at least a pilot project, and we have not even taken this step. Not to mention options that have not been used by the municipality in this area, both in the law on the financing of municipalities and in the field of legislation, particularly in the field of environment and space. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the functioning of the now established regional development agencies, established under the law on coherent regional development, is not a good basis and is not a basis for a future example of landscape formation. We feel that the congregations have too little weight in the formation of the provinces. That in fact regional development agencies are more often in the role of the state than in the role of the founders themselves, the municipalities. The landscape, as it is supposed to be, is also supposed to be some kind of amphibian. It is also important to point out the following fear: that, in order to decentralise our country, we do not reach a new form of centralisation. Here in the parliamentary group we also draw attention to the issue of centralisation, possible attempts to centralise administrative units, the exposition of ministries, which is that essential service of citizens, where citizens should address their most important issues for the country. In doing so, we believe that by establishing a second level of local self-government, this historically good experience must be maintained by the state. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have submitted our proposal for solutions for the formation of Article 143 of the Constitution. I will discuss this with you on the next proposal. We believe that this is better, we are open to proposals and comments from other parliamentary groups as well, and we are confident that only within the framework of the Government's proposal to amend Articles 143, 140 and 122, can we fully address the issue of the formation of the landscapes. Then, of course, more at the next point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Mr Anderlič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u19	Dear Members and Members! We will support the proposal of the Group of Members in the Liberal Democracy. It was a one-stop shop that, if we want regionalisation in Slovenia, if we want what all the parties are saying and also expect the public to do, the decentralisation will also be in such a way that certain functions will be transferred to a lower level by the establishment of the provinces, let it be to the province, let it also be to the individual municipalities, that it is necessary to delete Article 143 or amend it thoroughly, as proposed by the government. We will certainly - even at the next point - support the government's proposal or, firstly, the government's proposal. However, since there is a certain sequence of proposals, as they have followed, and as at some point in time the possibilities were, what can be adopted, so that we can at least establish the conditions for establishing the regions, we will, of course, support this. Of course, it is necessary to say that we really want regionalisation, not only at the declaration level - in fact, it has been heard for ten years that it is necessary to introduce regionalisation in Slovenia. We have made statistical regions because of the needs of the European Union and because of some of the needs of the country. At the time of these discussions, of course, it was more than obvious that another formal step would have to be taken and that it would be necessary to answer on the one hand to the congregations that were supposed to be connected to these regions or regions, and on the other hand, of course, that the state would also deal with certain issues together. I myself thought that with some laws that had been mediated in the procedure, I think there were quite a few to establish individual landscapes. It is clear that we could have made a pilot country on the one hand, but we certainly could not have done the whole regionalisation in this way if, of course, we did not get this consensus in all environments in the way that these proposals were made. After all, all these proposals that have now been tabled are in the way that some political groups in Parliament are taking part and hence from below. If I understand correctly, all those who are signatories to individual laws first checked in their surroundings and it did come about in this way. There were no such initiatives in some environments, since it was already known that the Constitution did not allow this. As I said, the profession is united in this, that this article of the Constitution should be or deleted, better regulated by this, a government proposal which regulates other articles when it comes to the transfer of certain functions, the financing and the organisation, which will eventually regulate the law. We will support this proposal because we believe that, even if we support the next one, these two proposals are not exclusive, and eventually we will do so if we agree to both amendments, a constitutional law that will circumvent these things, or the next proposal will also consume this first one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The positions of the parliamentary groups will be decided by my colleague Štemberger, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, and then we will go to the debate of Members and Members on this proposal to initiate the constitutional change process. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Honorable National Assembly! About regionalisation and the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia, we have already talked so many times that we can honestly ask ourselves whether we really want the provinces. Today we have the opportunity to show our action and make the right decision. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we agree with the proposer that the Constitution, as it is today, does not allow the actual establishment of the provinces, but does not mean that we can delete Article 143 of the Constitution without adequate guarantees for the future and leave the establishment of the provinces to a halt. That is why, at the beginning of the year, we supported the proposal at the Constitutional Commission's meeting, but in the further part of the Commission's discussions on this and other proposals to amend the Constitution, which would actually enable the establishment of the province, it has been shown that, above all, some government parties are taking this as a closed project, solely in the domain of their political origins and interests. If the national assembly deletes the said Article, we will only allow those who will gather 46 votes to carry out the said plans. We do not have before us a proposal for a law on the establishment of provinces, we do not know the number of powers, obligations, nor how to finance the provinces. From the performances of some government parties, we can understand that the provinces are setting up in the desire to allow the world’s capitals in the provincial councils of some of their members at the next elections, while putting the necessary content and importance of the provinces into a different plan. Ensuring provincial autonomy, financing, definition of powers, relations with the state and local communities, a rational number of provinces. These are the content that is a priority in the drafting of the law on the establishment of landscapes. However, since the consequences of the law are global, it is imperative that the law be adopted with the utmost possible political consensus, as it must be prepared for people living in the provinces, not for the provincial policies that will live on them. The fact is that only the deletion of Article 143 has wider administrative implications and opens up possibilities for different arrangements for regulating the area in the establishment of the provinces. All of this is due to the absence or absence of a specific position on how to establish the provinces in the future when this article is deleted. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we are convinced that the establishment of a second level of local self-government is too important for Slovenia and its citizens to be left out or asked for an opinion or asked for the opinion of us Members in a sufficient majority to make such a decision. We think we need to take care of each other. The deletion of Article 143 must be accompanied by a provision which will provide for the establishment of the provinces on the basis of: either the participation of citizens with a referendum at the establishment of the province or the entry into the constitutional law of the way and, above all, the necessary majority for the adoption of the law of the provinces, i.e. two thirds of the Members present, should be the lowest threshold beyond which we cannot. We will insist on this matter in the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u22	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. With your performance, we have concluded a presentation of the views of the delegations. We will now turn to the debate of MEPs and Members. Allow me a few procedural notices. The President shall have the duty to intervene in the debate if any of the debates relate to things not being the subject of this debate. Let me say before I give the first word, if anyone touches the following constitutional changes in their performance, I will not reach into the performance and take the floor. However, I would ask that we stick more or less to this point, i.e. the amendment to Article 143. Since some of you have already asked me to say that we will in any case decide on the area of regionalism today, both on the proposal of colleague Lavrinc and on the proposal of the government. These two points will certainly end with a debate and we will conclude on them today. We will assess how much we will do in the field of the constitutional referendum. We will now begin the debate. I'll give my word to my colleague Sok first. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u23	I'm giving up on behalf of my colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u24	You're the only one who's giving up the debate, and I'm moving forward in order. You want a word with me? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u25	I estimate that today's decision on this point and, of course, the points that will follow today are so much more important if we take into account the characteristics of the Slovenian Constitution. The fact is that individual countries know the written and unwritten state. Our country has decided on a written constitution. Furthermore, countries know the so-called codified and not the codified constitution of their countries. This again tells us that Slovenia has a codified, i.e. a unified constitution, which means that it points to some sequence of events of content and the standards that apply in this society. And more importantly, it's a matter of rigidity or a non-constant constitution. But I am speaking because this country, the Republic of Slovenia, decided on this constitution because it did not want political leadership to change the constitutional materials of our country every time. That is why I think that we could all be so much more important in our decision, whether we can later implement the individual matter that we are transforming into a constitution. And on this issue, the realisation of individual constitutional matter will follow my next words. But before that, the speaker in front of me said the profession was one. The profession was uniform in that Article 143 of the Constitution should be amended. Of course, I don't think that's true - the question of which profession. 143. Article 143 of the existing Constitution is also considered by the profession, according to those who have written the Constitution, and according to those who have adopted the Constitution, a sufficient argument to have a province in our country. No one objected to this at the time of the writing of the Constitution. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, according to my assessment today, this argument is "serve", under quotations, because I personally believe that it is a political profession, it uses only because of its incompetence, that the provinces have not yet been introduced or brought into our legal and substantive order. I would also like to touch once again on that very important argument by one of the political organisations that said that the provinces would prevent further centralist development. I personally believe that even if today the National Assembly adopts an initiative to initiate a constitutional change in this area, this will not lead to a move forward if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not changed its thinking. The question of the development of centralism in our country is not the result of an existing constitution, but it is mainly due to the thinking in this country. Until we change that, we can write whatever you want in the constitution, but without any effect. And so far, unfortunately, the whole process, the initiative to start the procedure seems like, I apologize, a nonsense because it does not carry the beginning and the end in its contents, i.e. obligations, tasks and funding. I would, however, like to touch on my part of the debate as a Member, the reason why I want the provinces to be established as soon as possible, on the basis of this or on the basis of that act. I personally do not care whether the provinces will be established on the basis of existing Article 143 or on the basis of Article 143. The story is very simple: when the city of Maribor did not find a partner in the government on issues in the area of the provinces, which could have been part of a series of questions about the provinces, when the government of the Republic of Slovenia, due to the insignificance of the negotiating partner, namely the municipal municipality, simply lied to the Ministry of Environment and Space, which prevented the construction of a landfill project in the city of Maribor from being financed in Maribor. But why did this happen? This happened because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, did not seem worthy of certain funds from the so-called Structural Funds to help gain the city of Maribor and the city of Maribor simply lost its application. This happens when we do not have the right partners in negotiations with the government. That's why my personal position is as soon as possible to the provinces. I'm sorry we don't have these landscapes yet. And to conclude, once again, I will not oppose this initiative to change the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much. My friend Aurelio Yuri has the floor, please. Pay attention to the time you have at your disposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u27	Thank you, President. When we formed and adopted the Constitution many years ago, I was among those who challenged Article 143 in force, but we were too few and had just been adopted as we have today. That is why I have placed myself among the signatories to the proposal to delete Article 143 of the Constitution, and I am even more in favour of the solution proposed later by the Government. Perhaps we felt that when we signed the initiative, we were too bold to demand as a mandatory constitutional category for writing the province into the constitution. Look, I come from the area, among the few we are here, Comrade Marsic, colleague Gasparini, colleague Battelli, and then this ends, which has some experience with institutionalised regional integration. You have heard many, I believe for the community of coastal municipalities, which was in the previous regime of local self-government or if we want a municipal system with Ljubljana's only such community in Slovenia. She took care of the water supply, the planning of joint roads, the protection of the environment both on land and at sea, the geodesy and inspection, the construction of a coastal hospital, the development of higher education and the establishment of foundations, the establishment of a university in Primorsk, she took care of the preservation and promotion of the cultural identity of the Slovenian Istria, the promotion of economic, cultural, sports and other cooperation between neighbours, both in Italy and Croatia. We can speculate and speculate on how the three coastal municipalities or, as we call them today, the municipalities of the Slovenian Istrian Koper, Izola and Piran would develop if it were not for this community. But the fact is that today, according to the indicators, the development is among the first in the country, not just because of the sea, but not just because of Luke Koper. It is true that there were illogical and other weaknesses in its organisation, in the organisation of this community, that could systematically lead to conflicts with the municipalities, with consequences for the functioning of the community itself and the development of its territory. And the protagonists of that period were careful, skilled and resourceful enough. The main role was to coordinate the presidents of the executive boards, municipal and coastal councils so that there were no major conflicts. When it was time to revise the statutes and address the gaps identified, there was a reform of the system, a reform of local self-government, and with it the coastal community ceased to exist. After that, I took the time and right to put the best solutions out of the organisation of this community into one attempt to regulate the province in Slovenia, and, of course, I followed the applicable constitutional provisions, the provisions of the law on local self-government and the debate that was held here in the National Assembly to the proposal for a law on the province of Koroška, which even went through the first hearing and received much support, as we have already heard. I did not put the bill on the Istrian province, which was ready and waiting in the drawer, into the procedure because I considered it, so I was taught and convinced that it would be better to wait for a more comprehensive and consistent solution both in constitutional and legal terms. You know that for a while I also spoke and suggested that we go to a project of experimental or piloting landscapes, and I also offered for our region to participate. This project did not receive adequate support from the government. As far as the constitution is concerned, there are possible changes in front of us. Possible and necessary. An opportunity that we must not miss if we want to move forward and allow for at least the next term, we have already burned ours, in my opinion, in one year it will not be possible for us to end up with a project that has long been ruled by a very broad, at least declared, consensus, even today we have heard that we are all supporting regionalisation, decentralisation, polycentric development and the establishment of the province, that this project will finally be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u28	Thanks, buddy Yuri. A colleague of Janez Janša, a colleague of Kangler, now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Today's debate, like some others that we have had so far, shows that we are going quite far from redefining the Slovenian country in line with some normal European standards. In 1991 we adopted a new constitution, where we have also determined how the Slovenian country should be structured internally. But first it took quite some time, exactly, more than 3 years before we were given the first phase of local self-government. The municipalities did not live until early 1995, after the local elections in autumn 1994. There were some problems at the time, too. They were resistances to obtaining normal European congregations or European comparable congregations. There was much insistence on maintaining some kind of communal approach to local self-government. Ten years ago, it was possible to observe that these resistances to the further membership of a country that had already been very centralised would be quite sensitive. Now it's been 10 years and there are still no other stages of local self-government. Slovenia is without provinces, one of the rare countries in Europe. This is not the only reason, but it is a very important reason, which is why Slovenia is too centralised a country, which, last but not least, is reflected in the growing differences between the central Slovenian or Ljubljana region and some peripheral regions. All this time, when it was clear that those in power had to do so, create the basis for the creation in Slovenia of a second phase of local self-government or the establishment of provinces, we have been listening to different excuses all this time, how this is not possible. First of all, it was not openly said that the constitution was supposed to prevent this, the more the answers were to look for the most appropriate solutions, and last of all, this excuse was given to a single group of denominators, which, when the constitution did not allow, practically did not allow for the formation of provinces in Slovenia. As an argument that the Constitution does not allow this, some of the experiments that came from individual parts of the country or from individual potential future provinces in the form of so-called laws were offered, I do not know, the coastal region or Slovenia Istria, Koroška and so on. Clearly, this did not go through for a simple reason, since there was no one around whom such landscapes were to be shaped. Article 143 of the Constitution refers not only to the fact that municipalities are independently integrated into the wider communities or into the provinces, but also to the fact that the central government, in agreement with the municipalities, must transfer its original competences and also ensure their implementation and funding. And the government has never done that before. A law on the provinces was proposed, but it brought two things together. It has brought together the process of creating landscapes and also the transfer of jurisdiction, which I think is wrong. First, a law should be adopted in which it should be clearly visible, whose original powers are transferred from a State level to potential provinces or can be transferred to potential provinces, how this will be financed and then, in accordance with the first part of Article 143 of the Constitution, attempted to establish the provinces. None of this was done. If all of this were done, if this law were to be and then on one practical case an attempt to establish a province would fail, then there would be arguments to say that the establishment of the province of the present constitution is not possible. But now you haven't tried it, even though whoever had scissors and cloth in their hands for the last 11 years should have done it. We are therefore discussing very theoretical arguments and arguments. So in eleven years there was no serious experiment, no law was adopted where these powers were defined, and it was also not possible to measure the interest of the municipalities whether they were for the establishment of the province. The municipalities could, of course, unite into a wider community in such a way that they can transfer their powers to this community, part of those powers. This would not give us much, since there have been some of these links when it came to solving environmental issues and some municipal issues and so on. It works sometimes, but it's not a country. I think that completely out of the vine the excuses, if, in the event that such a constitutional basis for the formation of the provinces as is now enshrined in the constitution, remains, there will be a few municipalities that will block the establishment of the provinces, they simply will not want to go anywhere. With a procedure which foresees, last but not least, a referendum in these municipalities, as far as possible after the current stop, we can avoid this completely. In addition, in such a position, there is great underestimation in the municipalities, either of Slovenian citizens or in this case of citizens, of individual municipalities, as well as of those local governments entities, which are already credited with possible irrationality by someone who says that this would be the reason that the landscape would not be. I very much doubt that any municipal council in Slovenia, if I knew what things the municipality would be able to decide if it was going to go to the province, on which things people would be able to decide closer to home and they would not have to go to Ljubljana, but would do things in Murski Sobota, Koper, Nova Gorica or Slovenj Gradc, and that part of the taxes they pay will also be spent there and not in Ljubljana, I wonder which municipal council would refuse to join such a province. There may be some dilemmas as to whether in this or another province, when it comes to border congregations, but in this case, people could eventually decide at the referendum, and this should be respected, because if one congregation goes to one province or another, it is not so important to carry out the functions of this province. There are many excuses and very few actual arguments in what we have heard at the expense of Article 143 of the Constitution. But let's say that there would also theoretically be such a possibility for one of the municipalities to just, in their own words, "initiate" and block the formation of the province, and then all the other municipalities are waiting for, in such a case, a compromise that we have proposed would be possible, which we will talk about at the next point in order to provide for a two-thirds consensus. This would also comfort those of the greatest mistrusters in the rationality of Slovenian people and Slovene municipalities. However, as has already been said before this debate, it is necessary to reject the deletion of Article 143 of the Constitution, because if it eventually turns out that this article is deleted and nothing else changes, which is, of course, possible under this procedure, we will give the Constitution the opportunity that now allows the establishment of the provinces. Maybe that's what anyone wants. For this reason, I will vote against Article 143 of the Constitution being deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u30	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. I don't see my friend Kangler in the hall, so I give my word to my colleague Juban. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I listen to the debates, I can see that only Pomurje, which you have often mentioned, is only agreed so far away that we can establish the province within the applicable constitutional provisions. I'm afraid it's the only one. And all the other stories I hear here do not lead to the possibility of establishing the provinces, since there is no consensus among the other congregations to reach a certain number of provinces and their territories. I do not understand today's agenda item to talk about the number of powers, the financing of the provinces, but I do see the first step, which is important in getting to the provinces, changing this article or deleting this article of the Constitution. No other solution, as a first step, comes to mind, except to repeat, in our situations where we might agree. Of course, we cannot create a province in just one part of the country and then again three years later. That's why I find this path pointless, irrational and unacceptable. I hear a lot about decentralization here. I agree, but it's not the only step. This is an important step towards decentralisation even after we have left the legislation or will adopt it because this path will still be relatively long. However, if we sincerely support this decentralisation, of course today we will try to delete this article of the Constitution, which prevents the establishment of the provinces. The stories about the uphill setting up of landscapes are so foreign to me that I don't see them in the future at all so that they can be realized. If there is no possibility within this or the next Parliament to find consensus for the number and territory of the provinces, then there will be no consensus. At least that's how I understand this story. And that is why we today need to gather so much seriousness and responsibility to take this step. Of course, there is still a solution in the government proposal, where this could also be achieved, and we would approach Parliament, unless we gradually take all its powers away from it, that it is not qualified to establish the provinces, that we give it the opportunity and that we take this step, if we are serious. I will support this proposal. I would like to see the necessary majority achieved in Parliament. For me, it will be exclusively a serious opinion on the establishment of the provinces as a result of the vote when we decide to do so, this is the deletion of Article 143 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much, colleague Juban. My friend Stemberger is not in the hall, I see. That's how I give my word if he wants, Master Petty Officer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I do not understand Mr Jubana, who says that only if we delete this 143rd article of the Constitution, which sets out local self-government, that is, only the administrative local communities, we will ensure the landscape and decentralisation. That's completely illogical, stupid. This is the only article governing this local government actually. Really. It's the only article. And why didn't that happen? Because there was no connection. Why didn't this connection come true? Since the State did not provide the necessary resources, the mechanisms were in place to ensure that the municipalities were interested in establishing the provinces. Another time. The law has not been passed, and this is also what this article says. It reads: "The principles and criteria for the transfer of powers referred to in the preceding paragraph are governed by law." We didn't accept that. And a third. In an agreement with them, the State shall transfer certain matters to them from State jurisdiction. Because there's no law, she didn't transfer jurisdiction, she didn't transfer funding. It finances through the state aid system in an unfair way to lose funds in different companies rather than through horizontal programmes to finance depressed regions in an indisputable way, on those that do not destroy competitiveness or do not affect monopolisation or misuse of funds. Those are the reasons. Decentralisation can go in two ways: through the implementation of this article of local self-government and, secondly, that the country deploys its autonomous functions and services across Slovenia to bring its citizens closer. They stay in its property, as they say, but it brings them closer to the citizens that no one has to walk from, say, from your end, namely Prekmurje to Ljubljana, for which we need three or four hours. I was on my way back to Murska Sobota on Friday, and it took me almost four hours. That's what this is about. That is why I do not support the deleted article of the Constitution, which is the only one that makes this possible. Unless you have some hidden agenda. We are also in the New Slovenia Group in full equal thinking. This is where I'd end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u34	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. My friend Barovic, would you like a word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that this debate is not over today, because I am slowly starting to raise the issue of obligatory or non-binding existence and determination of regions. If article 143 of the Constitution we are talking about remains only Article 138, which speaks of the inhabitants of Slovenia who exercise local self-government in municipalities and other local communities. Since Article 143 is deleted, there is no more talk about municipalities, no more talk about self-determination and integration into the wider self-government local community, which, of course, can be very dangerous for us in our legal order and our legal work, for some, of course, even if I take into account that in the economic development strategy that took place in 2002, the analysis has shown that it makes sense to establish 8 regions in Slovenia. It means that from now on there are no 12 suddenly 4 regions. And if we can introduce some obligatory form and content of the establishment of the regions by deleting Article 143, I am actually asking myself, and I am in doubt to what extent the municipalities will be able to decide for themselves whether they want to be in a separate region with neighbors or neighbouring congregations or not. In fact, at the previous meeting, I pointed out something more about the following points.The European classification of the region divides into four larger units, territorial units. And the one we are talking about, instead of having it, is officially called NUTS 3, is giving European funds to the countries and regions, especially the poor, to help. And since the Structural Funds in the European Union are not available for all eternity, it is in our view that it is high time for us to establish regions according to some calculations that this should be 12 regions, by deleting or without deleting Article 143. I am also expressing the will of the Slovenian national parties, but I only stress this will not to oppose the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u36	Okay. You have the floor, Comrade Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much. With this proposal from the Group of Members and the Government's later proposal, which is broader and more appropriate, we decide whether we are giving a constitutional basis for finally introducing the provinces into the practice of local self-government in Slovenia or not. I think it shows in this respect to be appropriate and clear and to say the following. For the first time, I believe that the current 143rd article allows for the establishment of the provinces only through the integration of municipalities and that this is not sufficient to allow them, at the same time as an appropriate transfer of competences to new provinces, to establish the work of the funds to the new provinces of the region. It is better for me to accept, in addition to Articles 143 of the amendment, the 140th and 121st, as proposed by the Government, but I and our Group of Members have decided to vote both times in favour, because it is likely that any of these proposals will not be adopted. It is right to say that after this debate, as far as I am listening to it, I feel that no one is actually there or that they are very rare to talk about being against the provinces. Many parliamentary groups and individuals, however, seek excuses to appear as though they were for the provinces, but that some concrete solutions do not allow them to do so. In this regard, I would like to say two very honestly and directly. We are now initiating a constitutional change process, and the final content will only be determined in the next stages. Those who do not allow constitutional changes to begin now, we also prevent any later discussions about what will happen to the provinces. And second. The opening of the procedure is only possible if today this National Assembly gathers a two-thirds majority of those present, and in the end the two-thirds majority of all, so to speak about the fact that we are also those who do not oppose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u38	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. Vizjak, you have your word now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In this National Assembly and also in the Constitutional Commission, we sit practically as far as I have discussed from the debates, all those who somehow want to establish the provinces. But we see different ways to do this. The paths are different and some who defend one way, even the others, this was also evident from the predecessor's speech that they are playing a hidden game, if, in principle, they are in favour, but they do not really want to. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is clear from the ten-year debates, earlier in the Assembly, today in Parliament, that it advocates the decentralisation of Slovenia, for the significantly greater impact of rural areas, for the reduction of the development differences between the Slovenian countryside and the centres, and that is why we have always been the initiator of proposals to do so. We also follow this same goal in the law, including the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia, but we follow it with one very clear principle and approach that the provinces must be established in a way that is based on the measure of people, not that they are according to some current administration or some current political will and desire. I personally support such areas where local communities in which citizens and citizens will be able to fulfil their wishes will be able to achieve their objectives, which will, of course, be at some regional level and which are today rather vaguely outlined. That is why, of course, you could not attach to the eyes, since there are only a few initiatives for establishing the provinces, even colleague Juban said that Pomurje is the only one. No, Posavje is completely united with regard to the establishment of the province of Posavje. Finally, the law proposed by the fellow Members in the previous term is in the procedure. All political parties in Posavje are for this and there is no opposition. So it's not the only Pomurje. Surely Posavia is with and probably a number of other provinces or those that have given this initiative, although there is no clear motive that there are no clear terms of reference and sources of funding for future provinces. However, I am convinced that if the state made it clear to the people and to the municipalities what they would and would legislate, what the municipalities could actually do with connection under Article 143, what they would be able to do and how this would be financed in future provinces, this motive would be significantly greater and the will and desire of similar laws would be present. In short, I am one of those who are convinced that a province would be given, if, of course, there were enough political will to do so, to be established on the basis of the existing constitution. However, since there is obviously a different opinion in this House, because it is obvious that such a proposal does not experience the support and wishes of the government to build it up by law and thus enable it to be created, we are also prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party to compromise, including in such a way as to change the constitution, which would allow for the formation of the provinces, but only with the two-thirds consent of the municipalities. This is said, even in this case, if the so - called black sheep or any other exception were found, it would be possible to establish a province. Why is it our fear that the interests of citizens would not be affected by some administrative development? Because it wanted to happen. I am convinced that the project of reorganisation of administrative units, that the reorganisation projects of other state institutions such as inspections are similar, is the start of a quiet regionalisation. This is said to be the administrative determination of some centres, without making this clear in this house. And I am afraid that in this way, if we let the establishment of the provinces of the current authorities, the current government, be administrative and, last but not least, imposing too much on people. That is why I think, and I will support this, that the landscapes must be created according to the measure of man, must follow the historical, traditional and other connections of men, and only the congregations know that. I therefore think that only through a clear consensus or at least a two-thirds quorum of local communities can we establish the provinces, or I am against imposing on people from above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. The next one has a word if he wants it, Comrade Rokavec. [[He's cancelling the debate.]] Then it's your turn, Comrade Kremjar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much, President. Of course, I will support the deletion of this article because I am deeply convinced that this opens the way for regionalisation, not for another. As regards regionalisation, as far as regions are concerned, as far as how this country will operate at this level is concerned, it is essential that this is predetermined. It is also imperative that this is not a voluntary decision of a number of municipalities, some people, whether they will join a community and some of their interests try to work together, because the system cannot work if it is left to the will of three or five congregations that will decide to do so, eight congregations will not decide to do so, which means that the state cannot pass on to this level of implementation, deciding that even municipalities cannot, because a simple system would not work in this case. So much for that. As for the many times expressed will of people and, of course, through this congregation, I see it in the second part. I see it, of course, in this legislative process, because we are, after all, the will of men. If we accept anything, we are also, after all, the will of these people, the will of the people in another part, it is said, when it is decided what will be done at these levels when it is decided where someone will be. By the way, while I'm at it, I think we're always making the same mistake, and I'm afraid we're back to talking more and more about form than content. Even now, not today, but rather around regionalism, they start and end up about how many regions we will have, where these regions will be, who will be with whom in the region, rather than agree definitively and clearly on what this region will do. I think that's the point. No one should take responsibility, no one should act against the will of the people in this case. Of course, I will never support that. But I support the construction of the system. In my opinion, the system can be built in this way, as outlined here, by amending or deleting Article 143, and I will, of course, support both of these options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much, fellow Kremjar. Now I give my word to my colleague Diaction if he wants to. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. Otherwise, in 25 seconds, it will be difficult for me to say anything big or to listen to my opinion, but I think we may have gone the wrong way. The main problem, in my opinion, is in the content itself, in the competences and responsibilities that future provinces should bear. The deletion of Article 143 will not, in my opinion, solve these substantive problems. I do not object to him at all, but I believe that the current constitutional regime allows integration into the provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Just so I remember, you've taken very little time to discuss yourself, and we're all sticking to it. Comrade Dr. Bayuk, now you have the floor if you want it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Delete Article 143. What are we actually deleting? We are deleting the only basis we have right now for the province to really come, but at the same time we are deleting certain principles that are enshrined in our Constitution and it would be a shame to lose them. For example, consent. I understand, I also understand those who today feel that full consent is sometimes difficult, given the well-known soundness of the Slovenians. A perfect consensus may be a very difficult condition, and we should also think about it. However, the deletion of consent is totally unacceptable. The Agreement, the Constitution, refers to the urgent agreement that only in an agreement with them, that is to say with the municipalities, the State transfers certain matters to them from State jurisdiction to their original competence and determines the participation of these communities in the proposal and enforcement of certain matters under State jurisdiction. Why would we lose the possibility of an agreement? One wonders if this foundation really exists, why it didn't work. As I mentioned, it may be true that full consent is too strict a request. According to our assessment, the biggest reason why we do not have provinces today is that the Slovenian government has not been able to propose a concrete project within 10 years to do so. We've heard a lot about expert opinions today. Experts have also warned us in a public presentation of opinions on the amendment to this Article, that they do not know any constitutional arrangements in which only to speak, without clearly writing down what we are going to do. In New Slovenia, and no matter what my colleague Potrč said, who hoped, I think he was reluctant to make his assessment, if he is not in favour of this proposal, but then he is against it, we have already heard such things in our past history, who is not with us with someone else, is unacceptable. We stand up for ourselves, and how we stand for solid local self-government. We understand and know that it is necessary in our Slovenia today and here to actually work on getting the provinces. However, ladies and gentlemen, New Slovenia is not prepared to support any proposal unless we have a concrete proposal on the table, how you imagine the powers of the provinces and how we will finance them. Without this, it would be completely irresponsible to open up this very question and hope that the law will be resolved in a quick manner, as we are accustomed to. Why haven't we had this on the table yet? Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not demonstrated that minimum policy option in the last 10 years, it is the political will for someone to actually come to the day with this proposal. And if this proposal is not available, what remains for those who do not know what you are really thinking. The only thing we have left is to judge by actions. What are the actions of this government? Every day, greater centralisation, greater confusion in public finances, greater postponement to the local level of certain tasks without providing funds. That's what happens every day. So, what exactly is behind all this? I don't know. And because I don't know, and until I know, we're not ready to open the door to change the constitution on these things. Alone on the basis of the clear position of the ruling coalition and all those who have scissors and canvas in hand, how you actually imagine the competences of the regions, what they will do, that we will really know that you are dealing with the decentralisation of Slovenia, only when we know what your concrete proposals for financing the new constitutional regime are, only then will we be prepared to open this debate. However, I know and I am aware that when we take this seriously, we will have to eliminate what is obviously the same requirement - because there has to be complete agreement to do so. But, gentlemen, with no clear views on your part, what are the powers, whether it will only be the withdrawal of the powers already vested in the congregations, or whether the state will actually give up its powers and transfer them to a lower level. And, gentlemen, without a financial programme we can't do that, it would be completely irresponsible on our part. We do not support this proposal and we cannot support anyone else until we see how closely your true intention is involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u46	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we do not oppose the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which would enable the European comparable reorganisation of Slovenia. The province of Koroška is expected to fall under Shaleško-Savinja, which is unacceptable to us. In Koroška, there are currently 12 municipalities that are successfully participating in each other in various areas, such as waste disposal in the context of regional waste management, we are working together to solve drinking water problems, the Drava power plant concession and others. For Koroška, only a single, strong, common province is acceptable, and according to its position for Slovenia is extremely important. The municipalities in Koroška are fully unified on this issue, as this is also a successful, important infrastructure link with the neighbouring Austria. Therefore, we will not oppose constitutional change, especially because there is not enough goodwill in the country to establish the relevant provinces and thus allow for coherent regional development. One major argument for non-controversy to change is also the deepening of the differences in the development of different parts of Slovenia, which changes much of it to marginals. The differences between the smaller municipalities and the country that took over are also increasing. The establishment of the provinces should thus constitute an intermediate level between the central government and the municipalities, which carries out a significant share of public affairs in order to promote regional sustainable development, which is also of particular importance for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u48	Thank you very much, colleague Sonja Areh Lavrich. I've got to skip my fellow Veaver because the time is no longer available. Comrade Pukšič, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! In this first point, we are talking about deleting Article 143, which states that "municipalities decide independently". So to delete when the congregations make their own decisions and then leave someone smarter than these congregations and he will decide, a certain minority, a few people will decide. We know such cases in our immediate history. There were a handful of people who talked about whether Slovenia would decide which Yugoslavia we would live in to decide whether Slovenia would be independent or not. Of course, it did not succeed, and today it will not. It was then that the Slovenian people decided, and he made the right decision. In 1994, he decided to establish local self - government and congregations. Although a number of congregations have been established substantially differently than the one in the law, and to this day no one has wanted to, they have expressed their will, in short, to propose that such a congregation be abolished. What hasn't the country done? Why would that handful end article 143 today? Because that handful of rulings, however, did not do what is stated in the last paragraph of this article. This is because the principles and criteria for the transfer of powers referred to in the preceding paragraph are governed by the law. Colleagues and colleagues, where's your marriage, where's your marriage? Where's your marriage where he'll write his seat and area? Where is the law on which the organisation, jurisdiction, financing and transfer of activities to the provinces will take place? You don't have one. And what do you want? Today, by abolishing this article, you actually want to drive the thirsty across the water but I am sure, just as it did not happen and could not have happened in the 1990s, that something like this will not happen now, that no local self-government has been carried out as it was enshrined in the law. Since there were more wisdom from Members when they established congregations than there was wisdom in the law itself, I am sure that today there is more wisdom in the heads of Members and Members than in the head of a handful that is proposing this. There is, of course, an alternative, there is a variant, but about this at the next point. Just to compare that Slovenians and Slovenians will also have a survey across certain municipalities, through some numbers in the European Union. Austria now has 2,357 congregations. The population averages 3.417 people in the municipality is 81,000 people. The Czech Republic has 6,234 municipalities with an average number of 1,657. France has 1,588 municipalities, so on. If we look at the average in European countries, we get that on average we have a population of 4,148, or in the province of 148,000 or so-called district. So what would make up hot water, but if Europe was already in, it says here, that's where it invented the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Some laws were later completed, corrected, clearly in line with developments in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, with our Austrian neighbours in the 1960s. Those who say that by deleting this article we create the conditions for decentralisation, those literally with one sentence told to the Slovenian people do not tell the truth or according to our own, are called: lie in the face. To speak with the language that by abolishing this article we are abolishing centralisation and that we will lead to regional development is not true. By adopting a law on financing with so-called appropriate spending in 1998, you have indeed taken this matter against centralisation. Even worse centralisation took place when we adopted a regionalisation law in the previous term. Today you admit, both marriages are bad, both suck, both of them need to be changed. Journal articles - as much as you like, they write about regional development, which of course is not even, differences are increasing and so on. We know all about it. What do you do? Nothing at all. You have not adopted or proposed in the National Assembly of the Financial Equalisation Act, you have not proposed amending the Regional Development Act. In short, you know, and in fact, you expect the congregations to drown in the burdens you impose on them from day to day. Colleagues and colleagues! Those we wish to benefit from this country will not be supported by the abolition or deletion of Article 143. Of course I won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. I don't see a fellow Lavrinc in the hall. I ask, does my colleague Peterle want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Slovenian public. In order that, as many people have said before me, it must be well liked that for so many years nothing is moved by such authority, for two-thirds of the votes in this House nothing can move, for the government to make one move that the congregations might take as a favor or if you want me to speak in your language as a carrot to go into the implementation of Article 143 of the Constitution. That it is by strengthening centralisation, which is not even necessary to provide information, because people know them well and especially feel them well. Just see how Prekmurje lives thanks to the so-called development policy of the ruling coalition and what indicators are there compared to the average or absolute numbers elsewhere in Slovenia, especially in the center. That the picture is such, this certainly does not suit New Slovenia, nor the coalition of Slovenia, but I think not all those who have nothing from such a concept of development and such a picture of centralisation in Slovenia. What the proponents are offering, not only those we are dealing with here now, but also what the government is proposing at the next point, is the offering of a cat in a frog. It's Bianca's note. You, you want us to sign something we'll say reorganisation or regionalisation, and then we'll mercifully wait for you to tell us what you want to do with it or what will happen. So, we are not so green or yellow to sign such notes, and I must say it myself, of course, because, on behalf of the Group of Members, the leader has already spoken, I do not mean to support it. I cannot support it either because of one, I would say, a political or professional culture, if I say so, and I can join those who have already spoken in this direction, on the table should have been offered a number of years ago, or a long time ago, a concrete and comprehensive proposal, not only the title 'change', but, what is it about this change; not only the powers that I will talk about later; not only the finances, including the organisation and the staff. Here the proponents, in particular the government, have made such assumptions or such goals as to put aside at some point, to make decisions like in Lombardia, or in Furlania, or in Baden-Wurtenberg. Surely this picture will not be in Slovenia, but if anyone intends to arrange regionalisation like this, I think it is on the wrong track. Now I want to draw attention to something I say: too much politics. I have read precisely once again the arguments of such and different nature, the common denominator of justifications, those sitting together in the ruling coalition, is that this project is aimed at the final application of local self-government in our country. We recall how the decision took place in the last ore when it was possible to decide on the establishment of new municipalities when the majority was decided on the basis of very changed or different criteria, such as the round before. When the coalition was in place, a few hundred people were eligible for the congregation when it did not fit, a few thousand people were not enough for the new congregation. This is a picture of the relationship between the ruling coalition and the local self-government, which was stopped, as a referendum on electoral systems or human will was once stopped. And now, if we read these arguments precisely, we read it this way: either regionalisation or further development of local self-government. So, I wouldn't want this one against the other, but with one another. And it would seem normal for me to see the finale of local self-government taking place with an upgrade in the provinces or regions, as we call it. I think it's a profoundly wrong political direction, a wrong political path in this direction, to try to succeed a local self-government project, which has been deliberately stopped, now somehow mate with a new project without telling people exactly what it means. Well, I must say, I do express a strong criticism of this procedure. Of course, I know that the political forces that are stocked with countless personnel, who would become land chiefs, circuit chiefs, secretaries, directors, coordinators, and I don't know what else. Just let me multiply this a little bit, ladies and gentlemen, and tell people what that means. Will local self-government have anything more at a lower level than if the state has to finance another level of intervention? Let us also mention what is really necessary in the light of the so-called European standards. We invite Minister Potočnik, and he will tell us what regionalisation is needed, whether it is necessary or even necessary, given what some of you are doing here. So it is obvious to me that during these years there was no political will on those who could demonstrate it and stop it, and they did not, but this centralisation suited someone. In her own words, she used to fit in because she carried it where someone liked it. And small congregations, remember the mockery that was heard in this house or the attitude that developed. And to what my friend Pukšič said, we could add. In no country is such a talk about the number of people in the congregations, and only here is the quantitative criterion so difficult to express or mean to those who rule such a thing. In France, Germany, Austria, even in Italy, if you want, no one will make fun of a small congregation, is worthy of respect, is worthy of support from the highest level of state; we have the wrong world. And this in the project which Slovenia has strengthened, which it has put forward in a variety of ways, and now the concept of regionalisation, as I understand it, is being further controlled or stopped. So, once again, not regionalisation against local self-government, but regions like upgrading really basic local self-government. Well, of course, I'm not in favour of the practice that we know from the old days, if something went wrong, but the law was changed, and of course we didn't vote on it. Therefore, I am in favour of respecting the Constitution to change only what is absolutely necessary. Article 143 is not an obstacle to the development of regionalism, and political will is required and therefore I am of the opinion that the article is respected to be implemented in order to try to create an appropriate political consensus to do so. I would like to ask, by the way, which Prime Minister invited the heads of municipalities or mayors or anyone else to talk about a concept. I don't know a company like that. They just say you can't. So, I'm against crossing and looking at how to implement the constitution, not how to overlook it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Comrade Kelemin, you now have your word, Comrade Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Your Honor! If we had a good proposal ahead of us, I would certainly be happy to support it, especially if this proposal were concrete, but if it contained some elements that would ensure that something would finally move forward in this area. However, my assessment is that it is all about one big manoeuvre, a purely ordinary "bone-eating" that some master has thrown at us, and also Members, perhaps, and especially local communities and people, that these bones should starve so that they do not have time to deal with other matters. And a lot of energy has already been invested in these regions, but in fact there are no concrete results. Although my assessment is, whether with this agreement or not, I do not care, I am actually in this local self-government from 1.1.1995 onwards, from the very beginning, so I know well what powers the congregations have and how they function without concern, I am constantly with, quite directly. I also work physically in the field among people, if necessary, and help them with all these projects that people have to carry out, so that they live normally or at least roughly normal. I'm saying we don't really need some landscapes. If we look only at the size of this country, we see that it is an extremely small territory, we are looking at a comparison in Europe, the whole province is drawn from our Slovenia. Apart from modern electronics, modern media is no problem to communicate with Murska Sobota in Ljubljana and so on, there is no need for these routes that are happening today, unnecessary, otherwise we could arrange everything if we wanted to, but unfortunately we should just go around spending money. In addition, I think that the provinces will cause even greater red tape, even more waste of money than is happening today. But it will probably be in this process primarily for this or some master at the top, this is our key authority that we have today, it probably remembered or realized that there is no room for all here at the state level in fact. The local level, however, is a little low level and a certain political February, which, of course, would like certain positions, to be defined somewhere, put somewhere, on some chairs. And that's why it's also possible to set up landscapes and these gentlemen can have their chairs there and spend as little money as we have. Me or those who are also talking about this severe centralisation of the country - of course there is this severe centralisation, only I ask you, my fellow Members, what are you in the ten years, in the twelve years you are in power, as much as you have this power to decide anything - even you Members who are now 12 years in this national assembly and could do something about what you have done to make centralisation not as strong as it is today? And what does centralisation really mean now? It doesn't matter if there are institutions in the country, so be it. Resources are important, and the financial resources needed by local communities are important in order to be decentralised in order to fulfil those tasks and powers that should be exercised at the local level. It's all art, and here's the middle of the problem. The authority, the master, the existing one, does not want to provide sufficient financial resources to local communities so that they can normally carry out those already given, I think already the tasks that it has under existing legislation, but only to obtain some new powers, some new tasks that it could carry out and thus, of course, allow this fantastic decentralisation, which is so much to be talked about. Look, just one case! How many times have I pointed out that tens of thousands of calls have been made by the authorities for such small fiches, to which the local communities must then report that they are not being paid or that the administrative costs of this money are not covered? And here you say it's necessary. No, no, no, no, no! Only financial resources had to be provided to local communities, existing, to a greater extent appropriate funds. The fact that we today have 4% to 5% of the gross domestic product intended for the functioning of local self-government is absurd. And where do you think our Slovenian people, our Slovenian people live? Where do you think he lives? At the government, at the government? Where does he live? Yes, I hear he lives in a local community, and there he performs his tasks and his role, and there he creates the conditions for then the government to live. Yeah, somewhere else! And then who needs to give money or financial resources to be collected and created in the local community; they need to be given to the government to have it at their disposal and to spend red tape for unnecessary reasons. The money needs to be returned to where it has been created to re-create new opportunities and new added value so that the government can again have at least some work, what is common tasks, for some tasks at a higher level that cannot be accomplished at local level. That's the whole point of the problem, but you don't want to understand. You don't want to understand, and for a long time, obviously, you won't understand! Look, just one example of why I'm saying it's just a simple "hungry bone." Quite simply, Mr Potsch himself said, "Now we are only talking about a procedure to change the constitution, everything else comes later." That's a fine example. Now we will also -- of course, even if we will accept it, we will probably go into a constitutional change process -- now we will do it, and then we will be setting up landscapes for a number of years, and again we will not have to provide any fiche and what we have, what we have so far, what we have, will be a nice, generous waste at the country level and the landscape level, so that we can set it all up and so on. In short, it's just a simple diversion or a waste of our common money. Nothing else. And for five, six years, I say, there will be nothing out of these provinces before they really come to life, and it is a purely pillaging of the Slovenian man, our people, after some effective solution, how can we, as soon as possible and as easily as possible, create some suitable conditions for those who have other European countries to implement local self-government. That's the problem. Nothing's gonna happen again for five years. Now ten years is nothing, and then five years is nothing. That's what's gonna happen, my respectable friends, and nothing else. It's just a simple stallion. And who's to blame? Probably a lot of those you were there, Mr Drnovšek, an existing government, existing ministers, all the way back. Because you actually want the capital to be spilled somewhere else, so that the capital can be concentrated - we know where and how - instead of making the capital or what we're collecting, our money has returned to the local community, where we could once again make a new start and create better conditions for the lives of everyone, not just those in the government, in Ljubljana. In short, I think we should first arrange for the funding of the municipalities. Appropriate funding of municipalities. If the municipalities were to receive sufficient financial resources, of course, even competences, as the opposite is happening today: instead of providing municipalities with more funding for their operations, then the government is merely considering how to burden local communities with new burdens. As for example, it now requires 20, 25 billion compensation for building land, so that all those poor people across those hills - who need two hours or three hours to come to the valley, on foot, or whatever - will have to pay that compensation for the building’s land, so that they can pay all the water charges, waste disposal and so on. That I would not accidentally be left without these obligations, which need to be collected all over Slovenia. In short, additional burdens instead of following some solution to the additional funding of municipalities and additional powers to be exercised by the municipalities. That's the core of this problem. And I, until these things are resolved, see no solution in this area. I'm sorry it's been tacted here, too. I have spoken with certain Members who have spoken, now, now we will put in a new bill on the financing of municipalities from the governing structure. Then you wait for this to happen. You wait a year, two years, three years -- nothing happens. Nothing happens! In short, it's a bone-eating thing, and there's no other solution. We'd probably be eating for another while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Comrade Marshich, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u56	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u57	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. It is difficult to discuss the landscapes and regionalisation of Slovenia, it has always been, and I suppose it will be, whether we change the constitution at this point or leave this decision to someone else, perhaps in the next term. Personally, when I look at what options we have with regard to the introduction of provinces in Slovenia, and if it is the first, for example, the formation of landscapes as parallel administrative systems, where the country would transfer only a small part of its powers to the regions, and this would simply satisfy the concept of decentralisation, or the second possibility that the placement of landscapes in the existing system of local self-government, where, as a territorially more powerful system, it will manage those functions that small, weak municipalities are not able to manage, I am getting closer to the third option, which is to change the constitution and establish the province as a central, intermediate territorial system, so-called Fijian [[?]] the type which is to manage the statute of specific tasks of regional importance, delegated powers from municipalities and countries. The last model is also discussed by changes made by the government. There have been quite a few speeches here about what European practice is saying about this. I would like to draw attention to the recommendation made by the European Congress of Local Regional Authorities, which states that in establishing the provinces, we should, in particular, respect the principle of subsidiarity - here we all agreed - to ensure the transfer of municipal powers only where municipalities are unable to manage their functions, the transfer of powers from central authorities to regions or provinces and their original funding, the criteria of at least 100,000 inhabitants and the definition of boundaries in the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have listened to what is possible with today's, now the present constitutional arrangement in the area of regionalisation, but if you have boasted about cases where everything is already possible and arranged, some laws are being tabled and some of them are expected, but I say that without the relevant constitutional changes, this project will not have a positive outcome. It is true that all these functions, tasks, and perhaps the method of establishing the landscapes could be enshrined in the Lands Act and perhaps already under Article 143. However, I think that practice really shows something different. My colleagues and I have tried with the initiative to create a large, strong coastal landscape, which, of course, is in a certain area - let us say now imaginary at this point - coastal landscapes have also received support, but it has faced a number of other initiatives, legitimate ones of course, which have been smaller even in a number of things, even in contrast with one project. If we follow this procedure, as it is now written, it is an initiative and then the decision of two thirds of the municipalities and two thirds of the municipal councillors in the municipal councils, perhaps a referendum with a certain quorum. I am sure that in Slovenia, in the way we now have things set up, we would be able to achieve asymmetric development or asymmetric establishment of the landscapes. Where is this balanced regional development? I am convinced that, even as article 143 of the Constitution is set up with us, which says that the establishment of the provinces can take place, and if I do come into law, it could probably also happen that a congregation that is not willing to join the province in accordance with this adopted law could also start a constitutional dispute and probably get it. So, the theory described convinces me that it is not possible to establish landscapes in Slovenia on the basis of this constitution of legislation. Neither for the purposes of the basic objectives so far nor for the ability to properly and coherently manage the original and delegated powers, nor for the principle of financing, nor for the principles of governance. What will be the best division of Slovenia in order to achieve the objectives described will be left to debate further, and I am sure, legislation. Therefore, I am also convinced that the basic objective must be followed, that the province will be strong and that the appropriate response to pressure from the stronger centres of neighbouring countries can be appropriate. I therefore advocate a more dynamic process of changing the Constitution towards the creation of appropriate constitutional bases for the speedy adoption of a specific law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Comrade Marshich. Do you have a colleague of Zupan's and a colleague of the Romans if you'd like a word? No, no, no. It's very few available. Comrade Tarchoon, would you like a word? Please, or I can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u60	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u61	Therefore, if we look at only the most important indicator in the level of development of individual Slovenian statistical regions, because we do not yet have others, we will quickly find that only with the existing measures - and what has been mentioned today, we will not achieve a satisfactory objective through the measures envisaged by the coherent regional development law. And that serious decentralisation is needed in Slovenia. This is also shown by these statistics, which show that the difference in development is the most developed statistical region. Compared to the second most developed, coastal-kraška - is said to be central Slovene to coastal-kraška - greater than the difference between the second statistical region in the level of development according to the indicator of gross social product, this is coastal-kraška, and last, pomurski. So in Slovenia we have an extremely strong centre and a relatively underdeveloped area. Such a situation is, of course, to the detriment of all these underdeveloped regions, and I even hope to say that we will eventually find that it is to the detriment of the centre itself. Therefore, in principle, I have found that we all agree with the establishment of the provinces and the decentralisation of Slovenia. However, we differ in ways that would lead to serious decentralisation. And here I have to say that I am surprised at the position of those who disagree either with the deletion of Article 143 or with the transformation. Because it is both professional and current practice, as well as, if you want, European practice - this is what lawyers and experts have clearly told us - has shown that without a change in the Constitution, Article 143, we cannot achieve decentralisation, we cannot reach serious decentralisation, we cannot achieve quality decentralisation. Here we hear the principle that the landscapes should be built from below. This principle, however, seems a little unsystematic on the part of those who advocate it. I myself remember how some of the lowest levels of local self-government we already have, i.e. the formation of the congregations, came into existence, and we can see here that this process was going eccentrically from above, not from below. We had a series of referendums, human will tests, where people didn't even choose to set up congregations, but this state council of the community did. Now we hear that the congregation’s opinion must be taken into account. I also agree that it is necessary to take into account the opinion of the municipalities and the population, but after some procedure which the law can also prescribe, we must get to the law. However, we cannot reach a quality law unless we change Article 143 and even better if we change Article 143 and Article 120, as proposed by the government. We are further hearing a series of criticisms that all power is concentrated in some center, in some political parties, at the state level. The situation is somewhat ironic. We suggest that this power, which is so concentrated, should be dispersed slightly to put it at lower levels of power. However, those who report it do not allow us to do so because we are blocked from changing the constitution. We've also heard the obvious why the government doesn't make the law. I think that the government really has to look for some answers and prepare some law that will provide for measures, transfer of powers, transfer of finances and transfer of those powers. However, it must be said that decentralisation is, in my deep conviction, a project of this national assembly. Only this National Assembly can establish the provinces. And here we have the legislative initiative of all Members, both members of the opposition and Members of the position. Therefore, I must say that I expect you to be able to make a law that will allow for the establishment of the provinces. And I wonder why it hasn't been done in the past 12 years because there are so many perceptions of the government. Why didn't you make the marriage? Well, here I must say that, after a heated debate on the Constitutional Commission, the SDS prepared a proposal for constitutional amendments, not a law that I think is bad and will not allow us some quality regionalisation. However, I would say that if you were serious about this proposal and not just waving it, it would suggest that you support one of these proposals: either the one we are discussing now, 143rd paragraph, or the government proposal. In this way, we would allow further proceedings before the Constitutional Commission and in this National Assembly to take a step forward in this mandate towards decentralisation or the establishment of provinces. If we do not do so and reject all or receive the needed majority, then we can say good - bye to the provinces in this mandate. Not just from the provinces, even from one step to the establishment of the provinces. Therefore, I appeal to you, if you are serious about your proposal, consider and support at least one proposal. But if not, you wrote it so that you could just wave with it or in speculation, so that after the new elections you could get to this centralized authority that you'd like to decentralize me a little bit. So, I think that the government's proposal is better, more extensive and that it allows better quality of landscapes in Slovenia than the proposal of a group of Members. In any case, I will support both proposals, because of this, in the hope that one of them will succeed and that it will allow for further procedures before this national assembly, that we will finally come to the establishment of the provinces and to a more equitable regional development, where our country, compared to the former country, can say, take a step back.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u62	Thank you very much. My friend Tank, you have a very expensive amount of time, but you'll still be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact that municipalities are able to connect proves a number of joint projects in public institutions, public enterprises, including in many joint investments, as well as in the establishment of regional development agencies. However, in order for the congregations to be able to join a wider and stronger community, there are also many proposals for the formation of provinces that have been awaiting a hearing in the National Assembly for many years and which have been adopted unanimously or with at least a large majority in all the municipal councils that have decided to join such a partnership. However, it is a fact that the country, which has been represented by practically the same government coalition for the past decade, has completely failed and which, by blocking these proposals, also rejects these further processes of self-government integration. This coalition insists entirely without a reasonable reason on the claim that the congregations are not capable of connecting and unable to overcome the problems of their environment. This is not true, of course, but only for the hair is the attractive argument of those who want to carry out political, instead of self-government procedures in every way. The process of establishing the regions from the top down denies the fundamental principle of local self-government, denying the reasons why we established and entrusted the congregations with their tasks. And also because of this proposal, I do not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Comrade Wolf, you have the floor. You're also the last discusser.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u65	Yeah, it's just a last name, I guess. Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister. I myself believe that, at least from this debate, which was a fundamental dilemma on this proposal, whether the constitutional regime in this provision is appropriate or whether we need an amendment to Article 143 in order to establish the provinces. On this issue, at least that is my assessment, the entire constitutional profession in the Republic of Slovenia is unified. The Constitution needs to be changed. The Section established to assist the Constitutional Commission noted that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia impedes regionalisation or the introduction of the provinces. According to article 143 in force, congregations are to be integrated into the provinces, meaning, in other words, that the province is established by the congregations themselves and that the congregations are the founders of the provinces. And as these experts have written down, this is legally wrong and unrealistic because the congregation cannot establish the provinces; I repeat, because the congregation cannot establish the provinces. In fact, they cannot give themselves or this established province of an autonomous position; this can only be done by the state with the law and therefore is not valid; it is not a credible position that the present constitution allows the establishment of the provinces and does not go to believe that they must be established in the Republic of Slovenia, what Comrade Terčon has already warned from above. No, these constitutional experts have written down that they can establish a province of the state by law, that is to say, this national assembly. With regard to the provinces themselves, as my colleague Terchoon has pointed out, I think it is a better proposal from the government, which also affects paragraphs 121 and 140, because, without prejudice to these two articles of this province, they will not be full-blooded - I say, full-blooded - because it is not possible to transfer the constitutional provisions currently in force to them in the performance of state tasks, which is the essence of decentralisation, which today is so much talk. If I quote the position of the expert commission: "The text of Article 121, paragraph 1, under which they carry out the tasks of the administration, state tasks, directly from the Ministry, constitutes an obstacle to any transfer of administrative tasks from the State to the local community, in the same way as the text of Article 140, paragraph 2. Both of these constitutional provisions make it difficult or impossible to decentralise state tasks in local communities and thus to enforce the principle of subsidiarity, even deconcentration of state tasks from ministries to their own authorities of the State, such as administrative areas, which are not even possible to establish in the light of that provision of Article 121." This has been written down by constitutional experts, and there are quite a few in this republic who have this education. Therefore, of course, I do not agree - and I personally believe them and they are not able to read from this place in Styria to lie to deceive themselves into stalling. The fact is, if we really want to - and in this I fully agree with my colleague Terchoon - if we really want to carry out decentralisation, then we will have to amend not only Article 143 of the Constitution, but also Article 121. And I am going to advertise myself in the next initiative in the same way. It's not that anyone who thinks that way would say that if you think differently, you're not with us. These are legal facts, these are written by eminent doctors of law. And I think their conclusion is correct. I myself will personally support the deletion of Article 143 of the Constitution, for the same reasons as my colleague Terchón, and I hope that this National Assembly will gather so much wisdom and responsibility that, in the course of the proceedings, the Constitution will be amended in this part and finally allow the establishment of the provinces and thus the decentralisation of that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of the Interior, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. In the minute I've been dosed, I can only say the following. It is not true that Article 143 - the proposal for its deletion is on the table today - the only basis for establishing the provinces in our constitution. This is simply not true - is Article 138 - and the deletion of Article 143 only eliminates the fact that the provinces are not established by agreement of municipal structures, but are introduced by law and are so-called population provinces, as they are by European standards. Secondly, I would like to say this, dear colleagues and colleagues, in 1998, this State Assembly, in a slightly different composition, had already discussed the law on the provinces, which means it is not true that this law was not tabled. It was proposed once again in 2002 as an annex to the project for the enforcement of the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. This has been submitted to all parliamentary groups. I'm sorry you didn't see that. However, in 1998 the Commission for Local Self-Government found that the second reading of this law could not be completed until article 143 of the Constitution was amended or deleted. That's not what's happened until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u68	Thank you. I propose to the National Assembly that we now conclude the debate on the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of Slovenia EPA-708/II. And in accordance with our agreement, we will begin a debate on the initiation of a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia EPA-702/III. To avoid misunderstandings, this is a continuation of the debate on regionalism in some sense. We have now concluded the debate on the proposal tabled by Mr Lavrinc and the Group of Members. We will now work on the same area with a proposal to start amending the constitution tabled by the government. I suggest we start with the next item on the agenda. However, since we are deciding by a two-thirds majority, a new order requires some predictability and I would like your attention. My proposal is this: to now complete this agenda item and to also pursue the following, this is the area of the referendum and to discuss this agenda item for so long, that is to say until 21:00. At 9 p.m., we would take advantage of the business opportunity given to us, suspend the meeting and move on to the decision on the first two items of the agenda. Is that okay? Is that an easy deal? This means that the National Assembly knows that it will decide today at 9 p.m. However, if the National Assembly were to exhaust the debate earlier, it would decide on the 3rd item of the agenda at 9 p.m. Is he okay? Is that a deal? Thank you very much. Then we will now move on to the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Republic of Slovenia's Constitution Act EPA-702 /III. The proposer of this is the government, the Minister of the Interior is here and you have the opportunity to introduce yourself. Mr. Minister, Dr. Bohinc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Your Honor! What the government is proposing is a proposal for a comprehensive regulation of the constitutional basis for establishing the provinces. On the one hand, this is an amendment to Article 143, where it is a matter of establishing the basis for the legal establishment of the provinces as a population community and no more provinces than the interstate community than the establishment of the municipal authorities. Secondly, it is a matter of amendment to Article 140, which should allow for the transfer to the local community by law of individual tasks under State jurisdiction without their prior consent. Thirdly, it is an amendment to Article 121, which is intended to allow the tasks of the state administration, in addition to ministries, to be carried out at other levels, including other administrative bodies, such as administrative units, administrative districts. All three amendments are intended to allow deconcentration of the performance of administrative tasks on the one hand, decentralisation of power on the other hand and on the third hand, the creation of better conditions for more equitable regional development and the application of the principle of subsidiarity. I do not think that this proposal excludes initiatives which are justified in this direction in order to regulate the participation of municipalities in the formation of the provinces. I think we need to listen to these proposals, and in this way we need to establish a decision that will otherwise be legal, in which congregations will also be involved. Only this way will we have provinces that will actually be justified in the interests of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's see, I think we have exactly the same order of groups as we had before with the same representatives, so that he will first get the word of colleague Aloys Sok. He will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, and behind him, as before, colleague of Celigoj, Pece, Kontič and others. Please. Comrade Sok, you have the first word to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u71	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister with his associates! So, first of all, on behalf of our Group of Members, I must reply that the principle of agreement and autonomy regarding the integration of municipalities is enshrined only in Article 143 of the Constitution. And there is no statement by the Minister, who has, unfortunately, now left, that this is also recorded in Article 138. In Article 138, which is very short, the Constitution merely states that the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia exercise local self-government in municipalities and the wider local community. This is the only lesson of Article 138 and the conclusion of the President of New Slovenia, Dr. Andre Bajuk, was quite correct. When we delete Article 143, we also, of course, delete all the basics that provide the basis for how the congregations unite in a wider local community. I also cannot agree with Mr. Tercheon's conclusion, calling for the opposition to submit a law, as we have heard here today that this subject has been brought before us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u72	There is no controversy in the presentation of positions. Just enough to warn you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u73	Yeah, well, if I could, I'd replicate it. Because he's seen us all from the opposition, he's pretending to be me, and he could answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u74	Done. You'll be able to do that in the debate. Only, in presenting the views of the members of the groups, let us try to stick to the agreement, or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u75	Good. The fact is that the ruling coalition or government has not resolved this issue in 12 years. If, on the basis of the existing regime in the constitution, the government proposed a law and then there would be no realisation on the basis of this law, the establishment of the provinces, then there would be arguments that the Constitution should be amended entirely on the ground. This is how we say today that it is necessary to change the constitution, even though the government has not done what it should have done to reach this second stage of local self-government in Slovenia. Many experts have also been mentioned here today to support all in a number of ways that certain constitutional corrections should be made if we want to reach the second stage of local self-government in Slovenia. We must find that this is not the case, as separate opinions have also been made by some others, whom we also consider to be experts in the opposition. This is probably not why experts have proposed them on the right side, but when I quote Dr. Loizet Gosar, who had a slightly different opinion on the establishment of the provinces and who wrote in his opinion that there is no need to change the constitution. Dr. Gosar also offered an Austrian model for the regulation of administrative thefts and said that if we set up administrative districts with a strong function of local self-government, then it is not necessary to delete Article 143 or to correct Article 121 of the Constitution, but obviously some of these legal opinions of these experts have been overlooked and you are quoting only some. As regards the Government's proposal or description of the activities related to the establishment of the provinces, I would like to touch on some of the points contained in this material. The government notes that the reform of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia is by no means completed, and of course we strongly agree with the opposition that we are obviously imagining and imagining a slightly different reform of local self-government. The reform of local self-government in the area of the establishment of new municipalities is not completed; it is not yet another year of what this national assembly has in fact refused and refused after the strong takeover of the government in order to create some municipalities in our country. At the same time, the government or ministry notes that the following objectives were pursued at the time of the introduction of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia: for the first time, the quality of life of people in the local community. I ask the Government how it is possible to ensure a better quality of life for people in the local community, when we repeatedly and repeatedly find that the government imposes burdens on local communities and does not provide them with additional financial resources for these tasks. Next, co-decision between people, democratic, local elections, referendums, citizens' assemblies and so on. So the government and the ruling coalition rejected and opposed all initiatives to form new congregations, changed, despite the fact that the law had not changed, its decisions, and also those of those who approached the regulation of 5,000 inhabitants simply refused and did not give the opportunity for the people to decide at the referendum whether or not they wanted a new congregation. It goes on to say that one of the objectives of local self-government is rational and an effective local administration. We are confident that with such institutional arrangements and the subjugation of the provinces, the opposite effect will be that the local administration will become irrational, because it will simply be too large, because this bureaucracy will move from the state to the local level, where, thank God, it is not so much. However, the state does not give any positive image. Then the government further says that the aim of local self-government is to improve the development of all local communities. So today, too, we can say that these are just words written on paper and that in practice there is actually a gap between words and actions. The differences in development in local communities are greater today than they were some years ago, and these differences are increasing. I will not talk again about the fact that some regions are completely neglected, that unemployment rates are extremely high there, and that the cruel consequence of all this is that young people in this region are leaving, that they are also poor and that only by saying so, but now we have set up a province, there is no way to fix it. This can simply be corrected in such a way that we take the law on coherent regional development seriously and invest much more in these regions, only in this way. We will soon meet in this Parliament with a proposal to amend the national programme for the construction of motorways. And at that time, we will once again have the opportunity to show how this government, this country machetely treats us, to some undeveloped areas. The government notes that the aim of local self-government is to redefine and enforce the identity of the classical congregation. Today, colleague Pukšič has already discussed the comparability of municipalities in the field of the Republic of Slovenia and in neighbouring countries, France, Hungary, Germany, in fact in the countries you are offering us today as an example of how to manage the second degree of local self-government. But I would like to point out that, of course, this is completely inappropriate. It is inappropriate to compare and summarize the systems established in Germany, France, Italy and Hungary as an example of the regulation of the second level of local self-government. These are a large, much larger country, such as Slovenia, there are essentially an individual region with more inhabitants than our country has together. And it would be much better if I now slowly switched to listening only to an expert, who may not be an expert for some, to Dr. Gosar's proposal, which offered as a starting point for 20 to 25 administrative regions with a strong emphasis on the elements of local self-government. Some of you have said that the proposal proposed by the government is a real amendment to three articles of the Constitution, better than the deletion of only 143. In fact, this proposal could have been better if the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party were to listen here and, already in Article 143 of the Constitution, would have put in place a safeguard to ensure that the province was not forced down from above to the municipalities. If that happens, then we are convinced that the landscapes, as some imagine, will never come to life. Even the correction of Article 121, which speaks of the fact that certain powers of ministries can be transferred to the congregation, seems to us extremely poorly written. See, the second paragraph should be amended to read: "By law or on its basis, legal or natural persons may be given public authority to perform the functions of the state administration." We are convinced that if a State grants a public authority to the municipalities, then funding resources must be transferred accordingly. And the Constitution should be able to provide that in advance. As far as Article 140 of the Constitution is concerned, it is totally unacceptable, because - I apologize, so I spoke earlier about Article 140, but now I would like to talk about 121. This, however, is totally unacceptable, as it actually deletes the possibility of consent. So far, it has been considered that if you transfer an administrative task from the state to the local community, it would require the consent of the competent congregation. If we delete this agreement from the congregation, it will be the case that the State, in order to relieve certain burdens, in particular financial burdens, will wish to transfer certain tasks to the municipality, but will not at the same time wish to transfer funds, which of course would mean some form of rape. It is very nice to hear words in the explanation of this proposal, such as decentralisation, more coherent regional development, then the principle of subsidiarity, but these are only written words. These are things we say all the time, but in practice this has not been done. And, of course, in the opposition, we have no reason to believe that this will be done in advance. The only right path would have been, as has been said several times today, if the government had come before this national assembly with a draft law, if there had been a general debate in the Slovenian space on the basis of such a law, and then, on the basis of this debate, it had been determined mainly by the local communities that such a law was good and then the opposition could have agreed to change the constitution and the path that some of you are proposing. We, too, will not support this second proposal to change the Constitution in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Comrade Čeligoj, the word is yours to present the position of the DeSUS Group, behind you, colleague Peca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u77	Mr. President, thank you very much. Your Honor! The amendment to the Constitution, which relates to the formation of landscapes, behaves with a very wide history of debates, confrontations, different views, arguments, both legally and sociologically, which has made its contribution to the profession and policy, both at national and local level. An in-depth analysis of the constitutional proposal to amend the constitution deserves to be done. In particular, given that the accelerated democratisation of not all political levels of decision-making and its implementation of the decentralisation process are among the common values in Europe. All this creation of a second level of local self-government, democratisation and decentralisation is certainly accelerating. The urgent consequence of globalisation and sustainable development is the process of localisation. This process, as we have already stressed today, is essential, necessary and useful in ensuring the country's contact with people living in a specific area and, on the other hand, we allow people to decide on public matters that are being touched daily. The main obstacle that the new constitutional arrangements have not been regulated in 12 years is, we believe, the text in 143rd, 141st and 121st articles of the Constitution which define the province as a form of voluntary international cooperation, for which there has been no interest so far. Thus, Slovenia cannot transfer, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, to a lower level of decision-making all those State powers to the provinces that can be exercised at a lower level. There are not a few consequences to the landscapes or to their territorial arrangements. By delaying the regionalisation process in Slovenia, developmental differences between individual geographical areas are deepening, thus preventing the equal integration of such parts into Europe. The absence of adequate constitutional arrangements in the design of landscapes makes it impossible to cooperate with neighbouring and other countries, limited to the absorption and use of the European Union's Structural Development Funds. The number of landscapes, the location of individual landscapes and the identification of areas also affect all further development of the administration or its territorial reorganisation. Even so, the regionalisation process must no longer be delayed, and the change of constitution is just the first step towards it. The regions are one of the foundations of democratic states, so the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The problem of creating regions is insurmountable due to the existing constitutional arrangements, the existence of Article 143. In the DeSUS Group today, we have mentioned and have advocated the establishment of the provinces from the outset, and we agree, on the other hand, that the preparation of the legislative proposal would require caution in order for the provinces to have the right content and that the issue of financial resources is an extremely important part of the regionalisation project. There will be a need to consider the relationship between the country and the country, as well as the relation of the province - the municipality. The government proposal is more consistent on these issues. Since we believe that it is essential for the country's democracy to operate and is protected in units closer to the people, we are in favour of the DeSUS Group's proposal to amend the Constitution, which allows for the formation of landscapes. We stress that, in the Group of Members, we will strive to reach a broad political consensus on the question of the formation of landscapes, that solutions will be acceptable not only for today but also for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Kontić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u79	Your Honors are here! I believe I will not be mistaken if I say that none of the Members see any step forward in the event that there are provinces in Slovenia. This has been the only common denominator of all of us who have performed, but I believe that even those who have not yet performed have. The fact is that we all stressed, more or less, the error that has arisen because the policy at the state level, both in the executive branch and in the legislative branch of government, has not been able to agree on the provinces which I think should have been long ago. We know the criticisms of the existing system. If we have not known them or if you have not known them so far, you have met them today through the speeches of all Members. I personally estimate that we also know the culprit for making these mistakes and that we know the reasons why the landscape is not. Unfortunately, Slovenian legislation does not know sanctions, as it does in all those decisions where the fingers have no policy to do with us, but the decision is not sanctioned, so, according to my assessment, we make decisions that are detrimental to the development of our country and are, above all, decisions based on a lack of knowledge of matter. On behalf of the Group of Members, I welcome this time the constitutional changes on the one hand. Taking into account the behaviour or taking into account the editorial explanation of all three amendments, the three articles of the Constitution are based on deconcentration and decentralisation of the authorities. It has become very modern in recent times before the public, but before this National Assembly, we have to talk about measures and the reasons for decentralisation and deconcentration of power. We all know that neither centralisation nor concentration of power, tasks, funding can lead to a step forward in improving society as a whole. Unfortunately, however, centralisation and the concentration of strength of decisions bring individuals forward. And the fact is, unfortunately, this country has always acted in favour or almost always acted in favour, in the primary stage, of an individual, and only then of society. Allow me, however, to also touch on the content of the proposed amendments or the proposed initiative to initiate the constitutional change process at that time. As far as the proposed amendment in Article 121 of the Constitution is concerned, there is a particular lack of weight or credibility in the National Party. If we spoke at the preceding point that congregations were able to establish certain provinces, it was written in the law, and we found that this was impossible in reality for such or other reasons. For one reason, the government argued, Members, at least the opposition, that for another reason. But this indiscretion here doubles. According to our assessment, it would be appropriate to exclude the word "may" in the future stages of the constitutional change procedure, which would mean that, by law or on its basis, legal or natural persons would be given public authority. However, if we wanted to have control over it and all the criteria cited by the opposition on the one hand and the government on the other hand were to be accepted, it would also make sense in the constitution, and the penalties would be for the refugees, to set the required qualified majority for such a law. According to my assessment, according to the national party, this would solve a number of dilemmas, particularly those which will take place under Articles 140 and 143, where there is talk that municipalities, local communities, do not have an impact on the transfer of tasks. Let me touch these two articles. The Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia strictly continues its entire text with the tradition of "may". And I will read it: "The state can, by law, transfer to the self-governanced local communities the performance of individual tasks under state jurisdiction, but it must provide them with the means to do so". As far as we have gone into that matter in the national party, there are mainly two problems of this kind: which will be the competences of the local communities or the provinces, and whether they will receive sufficient financial resources and their consent for the first and the second. According to our assessment, with a more correct performance, people in our country in particular should be challenged or asked for the following changes. First time. To provide a framework for further discussion, the loss of the word "may" means that the State is legally transferring to the local self-government communities the performance of individual tasks. Let's just say what has to happen. Not that we leave the future open again, depending on the political situation and depending on how close we are to the elections or not. On the other hand, I continue with the text, but it must provide them with the means to do so. We have dealt with a number of times today mainly with fear and fear that the state will require such geographical communities to carry out certain tasks under its jurisdiction and will therefore not provide adequate or even financial resources. This has been highlighted, I think that almost most Members of this National Assembly, and I think that this kind of fear is also positive. If we want to revive the provinces or other forms of local communities, we must not only ask them to do something but, above all, encourage them to do so. Unfortunately, the incentive is mostly, at least in most, financial forms. However, we could also provide this after our assessment by means of a provision that would follow that proposal, i.e. an initiative to amend the Constitution and, above all, that such a law should be adopted by a qualified majority. This would mean that, through this national assembly, through a stronger sieve, which means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should seek a stronger consensus already within the national assembly. We hear many times that representatives of various parliamentary groups, i.e. Members and Members of Parliament, are primarily defending the interests of local communities when it comes to the incompatibilities of the parliamentary and mayoral functions, if the national assembly is no longer the same if the mayors and Members are no longer sitting in our national assembly. I believe all of these would play a decisive role in such a dictatorship. I also believe that the decision on financing and the transfer of landscapes, if accompanied by a higher required majority, would, of course, be much more qualitative and would not only be the product of the imagination of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, how to settle the matter in the future, but would reflect the situation that I consider to be progress. Let me get this straight. As Sasha Peca and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I criticise that the landscape is not yet there. At the same time, I wish to establish such a mechanism that will enable financing, the performance of tasks and, at the final stage, the recovery of the landscapes. I still believe that we are part of such mechanisms, that we already have them in the Constitution and Slovenian legislation. But the Minister, as the executive branch of power, opposes this. In the national party as well as the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law EPA-702/III, we will not object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u80	Thank you very much, buddy. My colleague Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by colleague Tsukati. Comrade Kontic first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u81	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government! In the UK Group, we hope that the knowledge of the necessity of the introduction of the provinces has also matured definitively in this area, where different proposals and arguments from different proposers are faced and weighed. Most of the arguments for and slightly less than the amendment of the Constitution have already been made when the first proposal is being considered. And if we had serious concerns about the deletion of the 143rd Article, most of them will fall away this time. The Government proposes to amend the three articles specifically defining the concept of the province of another basic function and ensuring the compulsory establishment of the provinces. If we have discussed in the previous proposal that the deletion of the article allows for the introduction of regionalisation, we will, in fact, define it constitutionally by means of this solution. This comprehensive proposal also provides for a constitutional regime whereby the tasks of the state administration can be transferred by law to the second level of local self-government. There will also be a constitutionally defined area of work for self-government local communities. With the introduction of the provinces, the country in the local area will be divided into municipalities and provinces, similar to most European countries. In doing so, it is important that the provinces cover the whole country and carry out the same tasks and have the same legal status throughout the country. This, according to the government and the local self-government commission, can only be carried out by means of a constitution and a law. This will also enable the transfer of part of the national tasks and the principle of subsidiarity to be respected. The transfer of state tasks, as the government says, is not possible now that we have a large number of municipalities with low capacity. This means, therefore, that without regionalisation, decentralisation, which will be counter-measured to centralisation, there will be no procedures for introducing new local self-government. Furthermore, the current 121st Article of the Constitution also impedes them in the exercise of deconcentration of state tasks, which is an obstacle to the establishment of administrative circuits. The reasons for supporting the initiation of the procedure are more than sufficient. In addition to all of them, it is important to conclude that if a political decision were to be taken to introduce regionalisation by establishing the provinces into the constitutional system of Slovenia and then to establish the provinces with the functions laid down in the Constitution, a procedure for amending the constitution should be initiated on the basis of a government proposal, that is to say what we are currently considering. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the launch of the proposed amendment, because Slovenia needs the provinces, not for Europe's sake, but mainly for itself and the above reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Comrade Contic. He will now be given the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, colleague Cukjat and then his colleague, Rokavec. Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. In this proposal, it is essential to derogate from the current Constitution. If we read in the present stop that the municipalities decide independently to connect to the provinces and that only in agreement with them will the country transfer certain matters to them, then the current government proposal we are discussing states: The province is established by law to manage local matters of wider importance. This means that we have two approaches. The current constitution is talking about establishing the provinces from below, the government is proposing from above down. It's certainly harder to establish the provinces from the bottom up, I'm sure. It requires much more government involvement, much more listening to the wishes of the local population, in fact requires much more will, real will towards decentralisation, surely. And that's the hard way. And certainly also setting up landscapes from above is easier, certainly easier. Such an approach preserves ethical superiority and centralism. Of course, in the first case, the provinces are written more on the skin of the local population, and in the second case certainly more on the one which sets them up independently, on the founder, that is, on the skin of the government and centralism. If decentralisation has taken place after this procedure, this depends only on the goodwill of the State. It is certainly possible from above to command the congregations, you will unite, you will represent the province, you will get such and such rights, and for that you will get so much and so much money, that is possible. It's possible, like 200 years ago, that the parents told the baby, you're gonna marry that and the dot. She'll get one cow, you'll get a farm, and that's how you'll live. That's so possible. And I'm not saying that maybe that way, the regions wouldn't "sleep" because maybe things would run normally and nicely, but I think we're in another age where we need to listen to those who are being talked about and who are being decided to put in some kind of agreement, taking into account his opinion. Not just asking what he thinks. That's ridiculous. But respect and commit to consent. For example, let me mention the German Constitution, paragraph 29. I'm referring to the German Constitution because we followed the German Constitution 13 years ago, our legal system is largely copied from the German model. In the second paragraph, Article 29 of the German Constitution states, I quote: 'the process of division of the Federal State area is governed by federal law', as with us, but further 'which requires public confirmation', the opinion of the countries concerned by the division shall be taken into account. This is not just to ask, it is as children are called 'die altern sind zuhören', to obey them, to obey them. [[...]] And he goes on to say, the third paragraph of this Article of the German Constitution "human decision-making is made in the countries concerned by division" Human decision-making. [[...]] I believe that, for them, there are several issues in the countries, including the changing of these countries. In this regard, they could meet and organise this intermediate level of local self-government. I don't know why that wouldn't be possible with us. Government proposal, it does not incorporate these options, does not take into account. We have put forward an interim proposal where we would not only come from the bottom up as before, and not only from above down as a government proposal, but where we would strive to find such a country, a government and a local community a solution that was acceptable to all. However, for two months our proposal was somehow present with all Members and we did not notice that we could reach an appropriate level of agreement, so we doubt that the Government's proposal will be supplemented in any way in this direction or amended in the future. Since we cannot so blindly change the Constitution, because the impact is completely deleted and at least the minimum consensus of the local population in establishing the provinces, we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much, colleague Tsukati. Mr Rokavec will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, followed by his colleague Anderlič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian People's Party believes that only those provinces that will serve people can succeed, the provinces that will be developed, not the provinces that will be established politically. Therefore, we also believe that it is the same position to have on two different proposals to amend the Constitution, both for the deletion of Article 143 as well as in the government proposal to amend Articles 121, 140 and 143, for duality and non-creditability. In fact, if one attempt fails, another attempt may succeed. In this case, if we're both in. If we express our intention to create the provinces that will also have their goal at the end of the day, the goal of actually being able to deal more actively and more meaningfully with those issues that so far cannot be resolved by the congregation or on the other side of the country will then achieve their goal. If we say so, we delete Article 143 and we do not amend Article 121, which clearly states that administrative tasks can only be carried out directly by the ministries, but I do not think that we are doing much in this area. The Group of Members actively engaged in the work of the Constitutional Commission, in particular when proposing amendments to Article 143 of the Constitution, which deals with procedures for establishing the provinces. The current provision clearly defines the possibility of establishing provinces with the interest and purpose of the municipalities. We know that, during this decade, this provision has not been sufficiently done by the municipalities, even because they have not had the opportunity, and on the other hand not by a country that has not taken advantage of every opportunity to actually establish, if not another, at least a pilot project for the design of certain landscapes. In the provisions in force, the Government submitted in July 2001 a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Constitution, namely Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, with a view to establishing them exclusively by the State. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware that the provinces in Slovenia do not have a tradition, so that some powers can also be brought from the municipalities to the province, so that some of the money can be retranslated from the municipalities and intended for the functioning of the provinces. On the basis of this concept prepared by the government or the competent ministry, we assessed in the parliamentary group that the project was wrong. We have therefore drawn up possible alternative solutions, supported by arguments, in particular by the fact that the proposal needs to be insisted on establishing the provinces in co-decision with the municipalities. In doing so, we welcome the intention of the coalition parties, as well as the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party, that more than a minimum majority in Parliament must be provided for this project, in order to create a two-thirds majority of the national assembly or the Members present. The establishment of the provinces is thus a project that cannot be implemented through the influence of a minimum majority. Only by consensus can we achieve that the provinces will actually serve people. If the provinces are established, they must not impose additional burdens on public finances or detract from the essence of local self-government, municipalities. They can only be a form for more efficient organisation of a certain number of municipalities and populations, which can make it easier to carry out key tasks. I reiterate that the provinces can only be successful if this is a form of more effective resolution and implementation of the tasks of the associated municipalities in the performance of the tasks. Otherwise, it could only be a bar in development, a bar in the development of municipalities. And if the key impact of municipalities in setting up as well as in the functioning of the provinces is ensured, it can be guaranteed that the provincial bureaucracy will agree within a reasonable framework that it will not further affect the municipalities and the institutions of operation of the municipalities. It is a municipality and must remain a fundamental institution of local self-government, the province cannot replace it. In the parliamentary group, we will support the procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, but only in order to make these provisions meaningfully rectified in the drafting of the constitutional law so that the way in which powers are transferred and the way in which funding is provided is enabled by the adoption of a special law to be adopted by the State Assembly with a two-thirds majority of Members present. This work, following today's decision, is yet to come before the Constitutional Commission, awaiting the formation and determination of a draft constitutional law as well as accompanying positions. I reiterate that, in the Group of Members, we believe that the responsibility of Parliament and the Government is very great, particularly in the sense of providing such constitutional and legal content, which will ensure that citizens and citizens accept the province as their own in order to make the province a developmental province. If the country is political, it will not be accepted. We've had some good experiences that I've told you before. It is very important, however, that in the formation of the landscapes we also define how the landscape is designed and operated as some intermediate form of amphibian. I reiterate that, in the Group of Members, we believe that the established concept of the execution of state tasks through administrative units, those that are urgently needed as services to citizens and the expositions of ministries, is good and unnecessary. There will therefore be a significant need for greater sensitivity in this area in the new design of the landscape. We must not make 10 or 12 cases of new centralisations in the Republic of Slovenia from one model of centralisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u86	Mr Anderlič will present the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u87	Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the proposal because we believe that in these years there have been sufficient substantive debates on how we have all formed and created our own development, how we have all finally achieved a time for more coherent regional development in Slovenia and how people living in a wider environment will be able to form and create their own development, while at the same time the state will provide them with not one side of their competence, and, of course, with the means to carry out these tasks. It's hard to say one thing and do the other, at least we're not used to it. It has already been said today that in the last six years a proposal has already been sent twice to the National Assembly, and that for the first time, a proposal for a law on land with a problem of regulatory regulation has been put forward and that we have always received an answer that it is necessary to change the Constitution first. Since work is difficult, because it is necessary, in addition to this law on the provinces, to amend the law on the financing of municipalities and also to regulate the financing of the provinces, we want the Constitution to change and to approach the consideration of these laws. Surely it will be time for all the proposals and for those demands of the end which have been presented here today and which have been presented in the last few months. If they are honest, if they are able to improve the proposals that are being prepared, they will certainly be welcome in drafting the final texts. However, if these additional requirements go hand in hand with the government and the government coalition, then with the two-thirds majority of those present, the law is adopted, not in codecision, but in an opinion that should also be formed by the municipalities in this process. We will support the proposal for a change.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u88	This concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. He'll be the first to get the word of his colleague, Peterle, and then orderly. Please, my friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll continue where I ended up about an hour ago. And I'll read from the rapporteur, number 69, page 30, August 6, 2001, an interesting quote. Here it reads, in the second paragraph: "The circumstance that the 143rd Article of the existing constitution prevented us from establishing a province, but only the municipalities, by the logic of the management mechanics themselves inevitably caused the centralisation of the governance of the country with adverse administrative, developmental and political consequences. With a large number of municipalities, with a small capacity of the country, it is not possible to manage it differently than centralist, by retaining powers and resources in the centre". I advise you to look at this for yourself, because it makes it very clear how things work. This confirms the thesis I was talking about earlier. This centralization is already good for someone, and it's good for them. Due to Article 143 of the Constitution, there is no need to retain any funds at the centre. There is no basis for this to be kept in the centre and not allocated for developmental purposes in the field, particularly where the development deficits are expressed. This is regulated by development policy, not centralisation. This case is an intellectual accident, which is what I would say here. See, every law on the financing of congregations, as they say by the congregations, has brought less to the congregations in recent times. I don't think the money's gonna come from a constitutional change. The change in the Constitution itself will not bring any new funds. Regionalisation itself, of course not. On the contrary, she will require more. I have been pleased by some of the debaters who have, however, given little firm attention to this topic, and have already proposed some things that I think would be worth confirming in terms of starting points for the preparation of comprehensive regionalisation. And there's something else he needs to say. Look at how we will come to agreement on this subject, which has been going on for several years now, but if we do not have a unified view from this ruling coalition. We have a group first, then we have a government, then we have another group. And now ruling parties are proposing changes, instead of making a deal earlier, they have come here with one proposal and are trying to get a vote in the number of votes needed to survive this thing. It is very difficult to come from such bases to an agreed position. I am sorry that Slovenia needs the provinces to run this project in an uncoordinated, uncoordinated way. It will be difficult to move forward from these points unless there is a majority who will want to get things forward for any price in this round. It's like an anti-bioctratic program. For 10 years, the same government has been doing red tape, and now it has published an anti-birocratic program. She's been centralizing for 12 years, and now she's going to announce decentralisation. Who's going to believe these gentlemen? That's not my idea.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u90	I'm a colleague of yours. Do you give up the debate? Comrade Janš is not here. Comrade Trofenik has your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you. Dear Mr. President! I understand that the same agreement as at point 1 is valid, that there is a possibility of a discussion in conjunction with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u92	I won't touch this one. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u93	That's because the minister, in his closing statement at the first point, took some wind from my nuclear system. [[...]] It is important to stress and there is still incorrect information and incorrect claims that he was in some way neglected in the discussion of Article 138. Since I am one of the signatories for the abolition of Article 143, it is necessary to say clearly and clearly what led us then. At that time we hoped and believed, and we were also confirmed by the experts of the Council of Europe that it was possible to reach the second stage of local self-government over Article 138. This has not been highlighted today, so I think that this needs to be said again. The second thing I'd like to stress in relation to the first point is my disappointment. Since 1998, when we have held a public debate or a presentation of opinions on the proposal for a law in this room, I note that, to date, we have not made progress on the basis of a detailed hearing of the debates even a millimeter, except in the part where the section from a constitutional point of view added some of its additional findings. Otherwise, it would be very interesting to compare the stenograms since that whole day's debate with today's debate. And that's what I'm afraid of. I fear that there is not enough political wisdom and responsibility for all to be mature together, regardless of position and opposition, to ensure quality regionalisation. I'm sorry I'm inconsequential. So many more in the debate, from landscapes, regions, regional development, administrative thefts and the like, exactly the same happened five years ago in this space. I would try to illuminate this problem from some other model angles. It is clear to me that it is necessary to amend, not to abolish Article 143. That's how much I learned from the signature to today. That paragraphs 121 and 140 should be amended. Although I'm not sure it's the same as the government's proposal. In terms of centralisation or decentralisation, Article 121 and Article 140 need to be amended. However, I wonder why the first paragraph of Article 121, for which it is strictly necessary, is deleted, why the second paragraph in force is changing, which I think could also be left without prejudice in the amended Constitution, although I believe that the applicants will say that they have transposed it in Article 140. I'm a bit of a scepter from practice. Why? The will to decentralism or, if you wish, better said, until the transfer of certain powers of the State is greater at this point in terms of transfer to legal and natural persons, in practice this is happening than to the local community. That's why I'm a skeptic in this part. However, replacing the notions of fostering development and regionalisation or, if this is related to one another, I think it is wrong. Let me quote from report No. 2 on the Sustainable Development Simulation Project prepared by Prof. Sočan with his colleagues, the following conclusion: "The majority of acceding countries, including Slovenia, do not yet have the developed developmental regions. This would necessarily be due not so much to the possibility of drawing on EU funds, but mainly because of the long-term incentive to modern development. The creation of another level of local self-government, in addition to 193 municipalities, would prevent the integration and strengthening of the development potentials of the regions and pave the Slovenian economy with a new and permanent administrative cost." I am increasingly joining this professional conclusion. Why? Today we are talking about a change in the constitution, regionalism, landscapes, development, and, in fact, the desire for new centralisms to move from one to twelve, as it is supposed to be professionally proposed, but the State Assembly is expected to have several regions following a pattern, as the congregations have been taking place. This is an objective threat and a qualitative explanation would be expected at least two: a clearly stated competence and a clearly stated professional proposal, which should be supported by a large consensus not only on the relationship of positions -the opposition to the number of regions associated with the coalition contract, where it clearly states that the critical mass is at least 100,000 inhabitants. That's what makes me skeptic. When you say that the first step needs to be taken without knowing what the second and third steps will be, or whether this second and third steps will not randomly be too dependent on the current political mood and too many interests, short-term political interests. A mistake that can occur in an unfair second and third steps is more difficult to correct than to correct a law in an unpopular or otherwise or similar way. These errors will not be rectified within a short period of time, so the question is whether the will to decentralise is genuine is then a necessary amendment to Articles 121 and 140. Or are we responsible for introducing a second stage, but what? We used to talk about amphibians, about "region", under nicknames as second stages of local self-government and as a lower form of state organisation. This idea of this parasite is increasingly disappearing by approaches, as it is a little difficult, although I understand to some extent, but not entirely, and I am also increasingly skeptical in this sense that this regionalisation would be economically justified, organisationally justified and give the best quality, both in terms of organising the country and local communities at a different level, as well as in terms of promoting universal development in our country. Until there is clear assurance that these goals will be achieved, as well as clearly presented tools, how to achieve these goals, it is, of course, irresponsible to support the first step and take responsibility without human beings knowing what the second step will look like. You know, this scepticism also gives me the benefit of the fact that we are here discussing in principle constitutional changes that are supposed to be followed by legal changes, and these are actually happening to us. The organisation of the state administration today takes place by organising jobs in the state administration at officially defined "future" regional centres, under the name of the future, and then by providing workers with appropriate decisions - whether they are inspectors or geodesists or anyone else - to be sent to the current regulatory or exposition. The organisation of state administration alone does not require constitutional changes. This can be done by the government and the competent ministry on the basis of the law we have adopted. Of course, the question is, if these changes, which are in some way embedded, are already regional centres and future regions, indeed the interest of people in terms of bringing people closer to governance and similar passwords, which one is more responsible, others are less responsibly pronouncing or spreading every day. Here, too, many things have been said about funding, one or the other. It will be a little rude, but I apologize, the Prime Minister is not present, so I should not talk about his statements, but I am forced to. I find the phrase in his opening remarks in his opening remarks about the election of the Prime Minister - and this adds to my skepticism - which I have long believed has been cursed or written down, but I am increasingly convinced that this has not been written down or declared: that it will be the transfer of powers and money from the municipalities to the regions or to the second stage. In this room and for this pay phone, that was said. Today, it has been so much said about the professions - the profession has been largely or almost absolutely unified in the past years in the debates, that the competence of local communities to the regions is almost indisputable, but of course, apart from direct management or management of municipal waste from economics, although even more recent knowledge is already changing and complementary here. Therefore, it would, of course, be fair, responsible and urgent for the applicant to give very clear answers on the competence of the future second level of local self-government or the lower level, on the financial implications and in particular on the number of regions and whether they will follow them, not only some of the minimum conditions of goods known in Europe, but also, not to resent, the coalition signed commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Aishovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u95	Thank you and a nice hello! On purpose, I have not spoken to the previous item on the agenda, because I believe that the Government's proposal to amend Article 121, Article 140 and Article 143 is the best proposal we could say to date in this mandate or, in two mandates, we have together in a decision to finally move the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia from a dead point. The fact is, and you have already pointed out many before me that the deletion of Article 143 is too small or can even make the matter difficult, since Article 138 of the Constitution, which also speaks of other self-government communities, does not determine how they are, which they are and how they are established. By deleting Article 143, which provides for the establishment of the municipalities of the provinces, there is one way that was obviously not good or impossible within 10, 12 years. I therefore, of course, welcome the initiative to organise several things at the same time, in Article 121, to provide an opportunity for the transfer of state functions to a lower level and to ensure, with the amendment of Article 143, that, at the appropriate majority of which we will agree, we establish the provinces, if we all wish them as we have said several times today, both the position and the opposition, although the opposition from a purely different point of view. Of course, of all the things heard today, it would be very difficult to accept the fact that the landscapes could not be established. That is not true, but no one has taken the initiative to establish them, no one has established them in the way that the Constitution permits, and none of the provinces that would have been established has, of course, put pressure on certain powers and financial resources to be transferred to the provinces. Of course. The state can't have just one province or two, but everything else would be the way it is. When we go to establishing the provinces, it must be simultaneously in the entire area of territory, and this allows us to do so by law. How we will adopt the law, by what procedure, is another story that we will discuss. In the event that today we support the start of a change procedure, we have taken a big step forward. I believe that, in the next steps, we will also accept what some are most afraid to adopt with a modest majority such an important law, but that we will decide that this is the two-thirds majority, the majority that is required for the change of the Constitution and the other most important acts that we are adopting in Parliament, and that in this way we will adopt the most appropriate or the closest to what we really want. There's no point in talking about eyewitnesses flying to the government. Some who read this to our government or the current government have even run the government for a period of time or less. I don't think it makes any sense to talk about all this today, but it would be very wise to support these proposals and thus allow what the word has been about all day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please. Mr. Sok. No, no, no. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I'm going to be very short, which is what time tells me. Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! This National Assembly and the will of this people decided that Slovenia, the State of Slovenia, should become a member of the European Union next year. Today we are talking about regionalism, which is absolutely, as far as I have the data, I have been able to learn very much from the European Union. European Union legislation does not prescribe the size, number and competence of the regions, but recommends their establishment. First time. Another time. The data I said earlier, the levels created by the European Union require us to have a third level created on the basis of which we receive structural assistance or assistance from the Structural Funds until we get it. And the third time. We have a white book on regional development, which we adopted in the country of the Republic of Slovenia in 1998. We have a law on promoting regional development in 1999, and we have the following facts. The provinces of Slovenia are needed for comparability with the European Union and for the possibility of obtaining financial assistance from the European Union. The regional level is increasing everywhere in Europe. The European Union's joint financial and development interventions are aimed at regions, not countries. As well as the policies of the European Union, countries support the weaker in the development of a declining region. All the facts speak of Slovenia having already established regions at this level, third level. We don't have any. However, as regards the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143, let us go to Europe with the formation of regions, if such a change is necessary, whether or not it is necessary to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I do not answer the same question as before in order to expect someone to be convinced, but I think it is only to point out some of the facts that do not create a feeling from the repetition of untruths that the repetition of these untruths creates truths. It is incontrovertible to conclude that Article 143 of the Constitution prevents the introduction of provinces which would at the same time ensure the transfer of powers and resources from the country to the province, introduce a second stage of local self-government and together with the amendments to Article 121, and Article 140 of the Constitution also provide for the possibility of decentralisation of the country. Therefore, it is only possible to provide for the provinces if we vote in favour of the proposed amendments. This only opens up the possibility of landscapes being shaped at the will of people and congregations. I agree that a later law on the establishment of the provinces should be adopted by a two-thirds majority of Members and that powers and resources from the State to the local community should be transferred only by their consent. But for all of this it is necessary to take the first step and it is necessary to amend paragraphs 121, 140, and 143 of the Constitution. I have no right and I do not want to influence the voting of anyone, but I have a right and I want to make it clear what will be, what will be the vote. Only voting for the proposed changes allows us to eventually reach regionalisation in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger. Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I agree with what Comrade Potsch said. Today I have listened carefully to the debates and I must say that if I draw my resumes, I would say that everyone is for regionalisation and centralisation to happen as soon as possible, but I am surprised that such discussions would then be so that they would not make a change. We would go to regionalisation without any changes. But that's not going to work. If we want to get to the provinces, then we have to accept the proposed amendments, and the proponents are not causing confusion to begin the constitutional change process. I therefore appeal to all my colleagues to support the changes and then to move forward with the next step. For me, regionalisation is a two-way road, and I am sure that we will then work forward in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci. Mr. Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! There's been a lot of talk, and maybe I'll do it again. This 140th article of the Constitution, which, of course, allows for the autonomy of the congregation and the locals in the congregation, was the most obvious to me. This amendment, as stated here, says: "The amendment should allow the country to transfer by law to the local community the performance of individual tasks with State competences without their prior consent." Yes, please, this is a dictatorship for me! Laugh and wonder, but otherwise I can't comment on it. This is what we've heard before, as it used to be, that you had to order a son to marry and so on. This is the same: we will now give you something that is our will and under our terms, and you will have to work. What's the other thing? I'm asking you nicely, like a classic dictatorship. And if we're in a democratic country, the three parties that support these changes, you have the letter "d", which means democratic, but you're actually in contradiction with your name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, he's not here. Mr. Christmas, not at all. Mr. Comedian.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u105	Mr Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll make sure I don't repeat myself too much. Today we are talking and will decide in particular on the conditions for the establishment of a second level of local self-government, the provinces. I am convinced that we know the weaknesses of our own country, especially the weaknesses of local self-government as we now have. And expecting the country to decentralize itself and thus be able to establish a second level of local self-government, it is a province, and thus transfer part of state powers to the local level, not only to the provinces. Some things and certain powers should be transferred to larger congregations, some also to administrative units, and all of this today’s constitution, as we have it, makes it impossible for us to do so. The principle of the European Union must be before us, in particular to decentralise the country and thus comply with the principle of subsidiarity, which is the main principle. In doing so, I do not see the fear that I would not know what powers the congregations would impose on a higher level, because this is not a principle of subsidiarity, but those tasks that the congregations, as regional communities themselves, will join together now without having the provinces, sometimes very successful, are proof that we need them. In order to be able to achieve the effectiveness of these objectives, we certainly need, in addition to the provinces, the law on local self-government, which is in preparation and, of course, the new law on the financing of municipalities, because this is also a certain obstacle, and perhaps sometimes some mistrust. It is certainly necessary to amend paragraphs 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution in the framework proposed by the Government in order to bring ourselves into the provinces, a second level in order to allow the decentralisation of the country and to comply with the principle of subsidiarity in the maximum extent possible. This, of course, will also allow for the transfer of certain state powers to future administrative areas, as I mentioned earlier, of course, as well. For the effective functioning of the provinces, of course, apart from constitutional changes, we certainly need a law on the provinces that will define powers, we need a law on the financing of the provinces and finally a law on the integration of Slovenia into the provinces, because without dialogue with the municipalities we will certainly not succeed. I would like to point out that Slovenia is not a large country by its size and by the number of inhabitants, if we compare it with other countries of the European Union. Ljubljana, as our capital, is not comparable to the other major cities of the Member States, but it is a capital, just as an equal capital between the European Union’s capitals. All Slovenian cities are very small compared to European cities, but they are still functioning and functioning as well and successfully as the larger and large European cities. It is therefore perfectly logical and understandable that the landscapes cannot be comparable to European provinces, especially because ours will operate on NUTC 3. And these comparisons with some others are sometimes unacceptable. We know that the German country is, in fact, a state in the German Federation and that it operates at NUTC 1, it is said that another class is higher than Slovenia, which is currently operating at NUTC 2. However, I am sure that the advantages in the future of the provinces that we will establish and for which we have agreed to decentralise the country in this way and that this territory of the region would probably be effective and cheap, as has been said many times already today, will probably need to be combined in the administrative district, in one way or another, in the development region, perhaps even in the electoral unit. I am sure that part of the responsibility in addition to the country for the development of landscapes must be transferred to this level. This will also make us more successful in engaging knowledge and leadership and looking for efforts, engaging more people in areas, more knowledge for better development and faster development of future regions, and thus, of course, the municipalities that will be included in these regions. If I can speak briefly from my own experience with Koroška, I can ensure that, today, regionally connected municipalities, both large and small, because mayors and mayors are from different political parties, there are no disagreements in joint development regional projects. Everyone feels like they belong to the group and the collective effort, and they just want the country, because they've stopped at something they can't go on, and they have this desire. That is why I support this proposal, and, of course, we are only opening the way for all subsequent and future negotiations on how we will carry out these processes. If, of course, we do not open this road today, then this situation will likely be as long as it is, and this will certainly harm our development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupanova, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Most of us in this assembly probably agree that we are for the polycentric development of Slovenia. Especially now that we are faced with the fact that the country is centralised as quickly as possible, especially financially, and in such situations it would be necessary to have new instruments in order to provide people living outside the largest centres or the largest centre with a future perspective. But do we have a prescription? Is the recipe prescribed by the government right for us by the government? In what way does such a proposal, which does not indicate, or the government in explanation, the jurisdiction of the provinces it speaks of wanting to establish, or how it will be financed, or exactly what powers will be transferred to the province? I think it's a political project. Since the political will to establish the provinces could certainly have been established by the present decree of Article 143, however, the authorities and the government should, of course, offer some encouragement to those congregations that are willing to organize themselves into a certain province. I know a recipe that we could use to organize this, say. But this recipe or this government has not tried to do in the past 12 years. If it were ready and offered, it is available, I don't know, four billion, five billion state resources to be spent by the sample province. So, say Prekmurje or lower Podravje or Zasavje. The municipalities themselves should organise themselves in this area and there will be a few billion funds available, I assure you that there is no mayor who would not join such a project. And that would be the right way. The money for this was certainly, a few billion in the Elan case, the SIB bank 3 billion every year you used 3 billion, 4 billion of the funds that have disappeared so that you could give them each year for one sample province. [[...]] And today we would have organized landscapes that would work fantasticly. But there is no such willingness, for money in this country, as long as there is the same kind of authority, will still disappear along the same paths, in the same accounts, to the same people. However, the authorities were aware that people could overlook this tactic and this technology and that it was necessary to provide for a further mandate, a further period when it would also be possible to manage financial assets, capital resources, and actually rule that country without any real political power. This fear is present. These centers of power are aware that this will happen sooner or later and that it is necessary to have different instruments so that this can be done in a different way. That is why, of course, this proposal, which replaces the democratic mechanisms of establishing landscapes with some kind of tutoring, with a law that will establish provinces that, in my personal opinion, will cost a lot, will hit the pockets of a citizen, but there are no clear powers - I do not know what their benefits will be. In this country, citizens will have more roads because they will travel to another address, and more red tape. The municipalities are now doing very well, as has been found many times. They should be given some additional powers from the level of the state to the municipalities, and I think the state would be quite well regulated. However, the state or current authority has used this thousands of times and in a thousand years of tested tools - parts and rule, "divines et empire". And now, of course, some authority will appear to be being tolerated. People will expect improvements, they will expect this process to stop the incredible centralisation of everything in this country. In some law, for example, it says that no state institution can be anywhere but in the capital, and, of course, this law will be that pigeon on the roof that will appear to people, but now that we will live differently, we will live a better life. Look, if there was any serious readiness here, then we'd be worried about polycentric development right now. The last time we considered the proposal for a law on more coherent regional development, the amendment of the law that was tabled by colleague Kelemina, I think that it is a very simple, very good law, the representatives of the government acknowledged that the current law, which is supposed to ensure a balanced polycentric regional development, does not work as a dead letter on paper. For four years, they operated with him, promised to the people, set up some agencies and saints, on the basis of which some government officials found themselves quite solid, and there was no effect on polycentric development. Moreover, at this time, some of the funds available for this purpose, some structural funds, in 38%, benefited from the central Slovenian region, which is more developed than the average of Europe. This is said to have further concentrated, under the cover of a marriage. However, the law of colleague Kelemina, who was so transparently written to prevent the government from concealing and blurring the actual situation, allowed Prekmurje, Zasavje, I do not know, Koroška to develop more evenly, rejected that it was not systematic enough and similar - without political will. And because I've been in politics for so long, I can see through this text. I see that this is, once again, a policy of "work and rule" to mislead people. And of course I can't support that. Moreover, in recent times we have even heard that these provinces are to be established on the basis of a wide range of hateful districts for the delegation system. Inanimate, completely lifeless. So such a cat in a pod, when it is not known what the authorities are willing to give to the people or local communities, cannot be supported by such a cat in a frog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. In short, I would like to take part in the debate, in particular in the question that has been raised several times today: if you are in favour of changing the Constitution and establishing the provinces, then accept the proposal to initiate the procedure. It's just a fact. We know that without this step, if we do not take it, we cannot take a second and third steps with the opening of a constitutional change procedure. In the Group of Members, we have clearly decided to agree to this first step, and we have already offered an alternative proposal for a second step and, of course, follow the steps that follow. However, I have also previously pointed out the consistency or non-consistency of some other debaters. The most important task in establishing the provinces is content. In fact, only if it is of quality, if it is put in such a way that citizens and citizens in a particular area can see it, will accept the province. Otherwise, it may be serious fear, such fear as in the Czech Republic, where government officials wonder what the importance of establishing the provinces they established two years ago is. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we are alert and sensitive to this issue. Sensitive because we believe that in this process of establishing landscapes it is necessary to avoid all the traps that are on this path. In fact, it is unacceptable that the provinces could replace any role played by the congregations. The provinces can only be a means and instrument for municipalities to carry out certain tasks that they cannot carry out effectively now, better, and, on the other hand, an instrument where the state entrusts its tasks to a lower level. And here I believe that we are ahead of a very responsible task: that where we need to create an opportunity for the municipalities to participate first, they play an important part in the decision-making process, in the setting up of the provinces, and then in the further phase, in the stage when the provinces also operate. Of course, this is a matter of law, which I fully agree with, but this text of the law and the content that would allow for the quality of the landscapes, we must also have before our eyes the changes to the Constitution. If we do not have this at this stage before us and if we say so, because it doesn't matter which proposal we accept, just to get to the provinces, then our direction and our goal can be wrong. Finally, we must probably not afford that citizens and citizens will point to us, to the National Assembly, why you set up the provinces if they do not serve the purposes that would be needed. Our objective must be, above all, to ensure that the provinces are developmental and that they will by no means be a political province. If we reach this goal, then the landscapes will also fit in with us, people will accept them. This should also lead, in particular, to further the Constitutional Commission in creating the text of the Constitutional Law and, of course, to further proposals for a special law to be adopted by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority, in particular in the process of how to involve municipalities and citizens as actively as possible, in those areas where they could partly deviate from the proposals of territorial integrity and landscape regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. It would be nice if we could always, or at least at some point, read some things because we'd probably talk less. Indeed, everything we are saying here today is, in general, written in these proposals. 101 Proposal to amend Article 121, "...which should allow," I will only briefly, "...that the tasks of the state administration are also carried out by other administrative authorities and local authorities, which would allow the deconcentration and decentralisation of the state administration..." and so on and so on. Article 140, which is intended to enable the State to "transfer to the local community by law the performance of individual tasks under State jurisdiction by providing them with funds" and so on and so on. 143rd Article, "amendment to determine the mandatory establishment of provinces by law as a wider local community. to carry out local matters of wider importance and to carry out certain matters of regional importance by law, which would allow the regionalisation of Slovenia, which is necessary for the improvement of local self-government" and so on and so on. All that we are talking about to be good is recorded in this proposal. That is why, of course, I will support this proposal. I will support it because it answers the basic question first, and this is: is it possible to carry out regionalisation without changing the Constitution? A large, large, vast majority of constitutional experts think not. That is why these suggestions are so. Because I don't think so. So we have to take the first step, and we're doing this step now. I was just reading about what's in that step, and I'm just talking about it. And that. So far, on the basis of Article 143, if I caricature the matter a little bit, the self-governing communities of the municipalities, the SISes of the former - and there is nothing wrong with it - where the municipalities would agree that some things would work together, act together against the country and I don't know what and I don't know what. But that's not the point. It cannot be based on a voluntary decision without the state, without the law being written down and, of course, should then implement it, it is perfectly clear how this country fully operates, the level of the country, the level of the regions, and the level of municipalities. That's the point. The whole system must be - and it must be perfectly clear what the state is doing in this story, what the regions are doing and what the municipalities are doing. Surely something will move, it must be passed on, because then it is pointless, from the level of the country and perhaps something from the level of the municipalities will move. So, the basis has to be given first, and this is the basis, so I'm going to support this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Representatives of the Ministry. My friend Leo Kremjar said it would be good if someone ever read anything, and then there would be less talk. Of course, I completely agree with that. That's why I decided in this part, Mr Kremjar, that I would read to you what you didn't read, and if you read it, you wouldn't be talking as stupid as you said. I'm sorry. But, however: the government successfully centralises the country in 2003; Ljubljana v Maribor, % of gross domestic product "percapita" and according to the average of the European Union. In 1997 88% against Maribor, I also understand against Podravje at the same time 54. Not to go after all the years: in 2001, Ljubljana 101% of the gross domestic product "percapita" on the average of the European Union versus Podravje 60. 60 ratio, so almost 1:2. Then, among other things, in the study of the regionalisation process in Poland, Hungary, Slovenia and Romania, four prominent academics who participated recently found it quite critical that, from all the countries mentioned, Slovenia is the most opposed to the European Union's demands for decentralisation or the creation of a third level of decision-making between the country and the municipalities. The reasons, this is important, for which academics have found in their past a more centralised form of rule in this area, and in particular a long tradition of command from above. That's what it says in Dinner, Monday, October 6, 2003. This is it, Mr Kremjar, if, of course, we respected and respected our Constitution in 143rd Article, as we have beautifully written down, of course, the provinces could have long ago, if we did not expect from those who want to dictate from above, because they have been accustomed to this for decades, and now the Liberal Democracy has been twelve years old, then we would have written a law setting out all the elements of what will be passed on to the provinces in order to have certain powers, certain financial resources and the matter would be regulated. I see no problem in the congregations so that if we knew why, we could unite and, of course, establish ourselves perfectly in accordance with Article 143 - so the congregations would decide for themselves to establish these provinces. If, at least in this proposal, the beginning of the amendment was agreed and coordinated to take into account the two-thirds number of municipalities and the two-thirds number of people living in that area and, of course, all the other functions that should be, then this could be an acceptable compromise. What we have done in the opposition without large services, which, of course, we do not have. But, in a way that has started to change this constitution, so that first of all, the article should be deleted, then of course, something would change and start with changes, where, of course, the law, if the possibility of amending the Constitution were written, would be adopted by a simple majority, with a smooth, loving vote - of course, we cannot agree to such conditions. And when I prepared for this topic, I did search and search through the sources, because, unfortunately, much and much, I also found or found a coalition contract 2000-2004, which means that you are in power. In point 6, you wrote, "In the area of regional development, the main objective is to create conditions for reducing regional development differences". See, that's what you wrote at the time, today is the year 2003, and a few days ago, they write to you in a newspaper, they substantiate with data, with indicators: "The government successfully centralizes the country. For God's sake, what have you been doing for three years? That means you've centralized, you've been working against the coalition contract! And why is it written that the coalition contract, if you don't stick to it or if you're doing something the other way around! And then I went on and read after this collection, among them I found the 2002 Ptujski weekly: "President candidate Dr. Janez Drnovšek, regional development remains a priority." In 2002 he spoke of priority, for the journalist asked him: "The differences between the different regions of Slovenia are deepening. How can you reduce them? At least the policy of more coherent regional development has not produced positive results so far." Drnovšek says: "With the argument that the policy of coherent regional development does not produce results, I cannot agree." Of course he can't agree when he comes to Ptuj once every four years, and he looks down from the town of Ptuj, and they come with champagne, and they come with a slice. Of course, if after this he assesses falling behind in this region - then it is very difficult. And then his answer is the way it is. On the other hand, of course, all the analyses, all the data show and you yourself acknowledge that for the first time the law on coherent regional development is a disaster, was one that does not produce any results. Secondly, you yourself admit that the law on the financing of municipalities is insurmountable, but you must not replace it and you do not want to change it or hope to change it, because Ljubljana does not leave it to you. Thirdly, all results show that regional underdevelopment of individual regions is increasing. Of course, university experts write to you that this is still very much happening in Slovenia because those in power are used to giving orders from above down. However, if we look at the ratio of registered unemployment as a percentage in the same article, of course, compared to central Slovenia and Pomura, the data are as follows: in 1997 in central Slovenia, 10.2% were unemployed, in Pomura in 1997 - by comparing apples with apples - 17.8%. That means 10.2% versus almost 18%. Well, and how the case changed last year, in 2002. In 2002 unemployment fell by 2.3% to 7.9% in central Slovenia. [[Back-up advertising.]] I have the floor. At 7.9%. What about in Pomour? In Pomure, however, unemployment declined from 17.8 to 17.6. Well, and of course those who write this find, among other things, that the good news is that according to the new methodology the development hazard index Podravja has not deteriorated as much as according to the old methodology. Please! This means, in addition to all of the above, that methodologies change, that the results of development or underdevelopment change by means of methodologies. The actual situation is catastrophic! And with the beginning of changing the constitution at this point in such a way, colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately it is not going to work. It is not because you do not have fair intentions, because you really do not want to change and make even development, because if you do, then these thousands of state institutions you have, the para-state institutions, would be scattered across Slovenia. Among other things, it is clear why this backlog will increase. The main problem is, among other things, the outflow of brain capital from these underdeveloped areas forward. Those who want to start developing this Slovenia in one way or another are lying to the Slovenian people. That's not true! The only truth and only fair thing to do is to make it clear on the table a law that would specify everything about it, and then leave at least one year of opportunity for these congregations to make up their minds, and you will not be disappointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u114	Thank you. Mrs. Krebs. Excuse me! Excuse me, Mr. Kremjar has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. So, my friend Pukšič has really done a very good job of preparing for this show. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u116	You always do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u117	This time, too. Unfortunately, not about this point, something else. He mixed everything up: decentralisation, centralisation, consistent regional development and so on - these are stories that, of course, with what we are talking about today, have no connection. We're talking about something else, and I'm not going to repeat what I said before. I must also say that I understand that colleague Pukšič is doing this, even though I do not approve of this. Presidents, I would suggest, however, that, if I may, in the future, limit myself to a word treasure that may already be offended. Today it was three or four times out of my colleague Pukšič's mouth to hear, first of all that someone was talking nonsense, now that I was saying "tumaria" and twice that someone was lying. This is a dictionary that, according to my judgment, does not belong here. Perhaps my colleague Puksic thinks that the article has already been adopted, where we would be allowed to speak in Parliament. This is probably never going to happen. I would be in favour of limiting ourselves to cultural dialogue and supporting our things with evidence and not with such words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u118	Well, as far as the criteria are concerned, I, as chairman, can only continue the practice of my predecessor. Mrs. Krebs. Mr. Pukšič, do you object to what Mr. Kremjar says? You know how it is with replicas. The President can only exceptionally allow this, let's say that I made this exception.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u119	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. If anyone saw himself inside to insult him, I apologize. God forbid, I had no intention of hurting anyone. It is true, however, that it is easier for the Slovenian people to fall into underdevelopment by either cancelling or thus changing Article 134, and by initiating coordinated regional development, i.e. even regional development. That's not true. But it is true that some of you are afraid that we will speak clearly about these matters. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u120	I would ask you in the future to stick to the agenda, the content we are discussing, and we use the appropriate language. Mrs. Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I listened very carefully to my colleague Pukšič and, in fact, I sincerely thank him for a very good introduction to my discussion below. You're right, Mr. Puksich. The Republic of Slovenia is a centralised state. One of the most centralised countries from the community we are entering from the communities of the Member States of the European Union. What do we want for our citizens and citizens? We also wish to allow them to have similar arrangements in the area of the construction of government structures in our country, as in the Member States. We do not want to "invent hot water" as has already been said on this side, but, according to the best practices developed in these countries, to introduce into the sieve we are building in the Republic of Slovenia, structures, comparable structures. And where are we today? It is true that we are a young country and centralisation is, in fact, entirely justified in the process of production. In 12 years, there was a lot to build. Whether it's time to ask ourselves whether we have a well-built government structure - but I think it's time, and we're doing it now. We have heterogeneous local communities on the one hand, for which you well have found that they get to carry out the tasks that they have to carry out under law, 12% of the public funding, which is in fact significantly less than the Member States of the European Union. However, that these countries to which we join, of course, also have a second stage, which includes tasks which are not of a local nature, but are those entrusted by local communities to this entity, because they are growing local frameworks, on the one hand and on the other, most importantly, the State is transferring powers and resources to this second stage. Of course, all the information you have provided indicates that we must approach it immediately. Of course, this site trusts experts in the formulation of political decisions, it is evident. In the 12 years, a number of expert opinions have, of course, come to the conclusion that constitutional provisions are an obstacle to the creation of a second level of local self-government. Dr. Schmidtovnik said this very well with the phrase he repeated several times when he said that the congregation could not establish more than itself. This is an important phrase that shows that we expect congregations to establish something more than themselves. The region is more than the congregations can agree to work together. The tasks that the municipalities would like to take to this second level of local self-government today can be only of a local character that has grown beyond the framework of the local community. And, of course, this constitutional proposal also says that the province is established by law to carry out local affairs of wider importance, there is certainly no intention of the government, and this is also explained by the fact that it takes on the local communities the basic powers which are also in line with the powers exercised by the European municipalities, but those who grow beyond the framework, of course, are already transferring and coordinating each other. A typical example, not only in the case of the merger of 12 citizens in the area of Koroška, of the world of the Koro region, as they call their association, is therefore this association. But they have taken advantage of all the legal options offered by legislation in this area today. This is a partnership, to draw up joint regional programmes, but we are all forgetting that we do not have the original funds to pay for regional projects. And the municipalities bring together the original local resources. That's what the mayors here know best. It's about bringing together the original local communities. It is therefore necessary to establish a level other than that to which the State will transfer such powers and resources. If we look at the average in the Member States of the European Union, it is a delegation of funds, i.e. the public financial revenues that we have found in the country today, 12 percent have municipalities and 88 percent are decided by ministries. But that means if the country is centralized, that's how it is. Since we want to keep our staff at home, think - home development, increase the benefits of local populations and national economic benefits closer to home, we want to create a second level of local self-government than a region or province. We expect ministries to transfer competences, which will be primarily and also of a developmental nature, as we estimate that they know smaller entities better to find the most appropriate solutions for more coherent and economically balanced regional development. This is a transfer of funds from ministries to this entity. And the average of the Member States of the European Union is 24%. The first and second levels of local self-government have such a share of government revenue. The country which, of course, is the most delegated State is Denmark. The first and second levels of local self-government are managed by 43.8% of government revenue. And to say that this marriage does not bring this opportunity is, of course, a deception. Otherwise it cannot be because the constitutions say that the province is established by law, that I answer, of course, that we cannot establish a province in our country other than by law. We also established local communities by law because we want the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to be fully covered. However, not to respect the geographical, specific characteristics of the environment, but to do so is misleading. Even now, we know which municipalities are gravitating together and who are also meeting their interests together, especially in terms of better and more coherent development in this area. So all that is said, in fact, on your part, are desires after what we want: a change of constitution first and then with appropriate legislation to implement. And the greatest fear of course here - this must not be borne by local communities, as you imagine that local self-government is at risk. That's not true. However, concentrated power within the ministries is at risk. As they are expected to delegate their powers of decision, not least on the restoration of regional roads, when, in fact, we need to negotiate here with the Ministry, which is the most necessary reconstruction. When we look at the samples of the Member States of the European Union, regions decide on such issues. So I also really ask the opposition to cooperate with us here and to support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u122	Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am speaking again, especially because I do not at last share my own opinion - colleagues from the Liberal Democracy and others also believe - that it is possible to establish a province without a change of constitution. I have here not least the proposal to establish Posavje province, where the introductory provisions make it very clear that it is possible to establish the province also with existing legislation, but this is from a long time ago, it seems, 1998. And because my desire is great to finally introduce the provinces in Slovenia, and also to the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been and are prepared to compromise on the amendment of Article 143 of the Constitution. And since we were repeatedly challenged to the Constitutional Commission, we prepared the text of Article 143. And this text is the essence we want to implement. This text is of particular importance, as my assessment, in the second paragraph, which states that the provinces may be established if the municipalities of which the area and the number of inhabitants consists of at least two thirds of the area and two thirds of the population of the area envisaged so agree, and if at least two thirds of all municipalities in the area envisaged so agree. Why is that? We just want a constitutional majority consensus on this also from the people - from the municipalities, from local communities or from people and their representatives. It is hard to imagine that such a proposal for those who want to introduce the provinces would be unacceptable. It is difficult for me to imagine introducing provinces in Slovenia without respecting at least two-thirds of the quorum in some area. And because in negotiations, coordination failed, at least I have such information that this position would become written down in one form or another, it has become some kind of consensus, I doubt - as the opposition I have this right - to be serious and to be honest after the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia by the measure of people. I now believe that there is something else behind this project, and that setting up the landscapes mainly according to the measure of the country or the transfer of certain powers to the provinces, which may cost a lot, requires a lot of resources and, on the other hand, the question is whether they will be sufficient resources to do so. Let me mention a chapter that I think is particularly critical - regional roads. Regional roads, I'm sorry, are in a catastrophic state. This can probably be confirmed by each of you here when we are driving through our Slovenia. And this today to get taken care of by, I would say, very uncertain financial sources, it seems to me that it is easy - not an opportunity, this may be a danger. The changes to this constitution are not an opportunity; they can also pose dangers, and I would also very much like to support the Government's proposal if it had a clear project ahead of it, how point A, which we are today, will come to point Z. And if I understand what will happen to Z, and if we see if we all see together, we who represent the country here, and those who represent the local community, that it is something good. Believe me, there is no Member here between us who will not support this project. However, since coordination does not show a clear outline of these opportunities from a rather vaguely defined concept of the introduction of landscapes, please allow us to question and to draw attention to the dangers as well. That's why I think it would be true - and this is an obvious ruling coalition for the last ten years - that it has not prepared the A to Z points, but now it says that point A is an opportunity, and we'll see what happens at the end. I'm sorry, ma'am and ma'am, I don't believe this, and I have all this right. I wish to introduce the provinces, but in such a way that we will all have something together, both the government and, of course, the local population. However, from the compromises that we are proposing and the assessments of inadmissibility, your assessments or majority assessments, for these compromises - this is said to be a willingness to find solutions that I feel are no longer bound to consensus, because then it is one against and it is a problem. However, if the two-thirds majority, excuse me, is not acceptable, it is true, I would say, concern and doubt is justified. There's something else that I think is very important. It seems very important to me that this procedure for the establishment of the provinces and, of course, the change in their areas, the establishment of the headquarters of the provinces, the organisation of jurisdiction and the financing of the provinces is also the subject of a two-thirds majority. That's the point, and we suggest it. Your Honor! I hope that these proposals will be acceptable to you, have not been accepted so far, and that we will also be able to introduce the provinces in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u125	I would ask all these scepticisms and criticisms that have been made, and the traps that are in this process to get to the provinces, what is their position? Most of the discussions said that there was no need to change the Constitution at all. However, the SDS tabled or drafted a proposal for amendments to the Constitution. Finally, it must be said that two former colleagues of your party signed the previous proposal, which we have dealt with with with the first-signed Max Lavrinci. I don't know what happened during this time or what happened to you that you changed that opinion, but from all these steps I can unquestionably conclude that you are also assessing that some changes are necessary. And everything else is a hoax. And if you have a proposal, I repeat. Today we must support one proposal so that we can get closer, even if it is your proposal. Even if your proposal, which I think is very rigorous, requires a very high level of consensus, but in the final stage it is possible - or I would say that something is even better than we have now. For now we have such a situation that if we had nothing written down in the constitution, it would be much closer to the provinces than we are now. Although at first glance it seems like the legislator wanted to do something for the provinces because he said he could be established. However, this word "may" is the biggest obstacle to system regulation, because we will not reach regionalisation of the whole of Slovenia. And now imagine a situation. I also agree that any state fund or institution could be moved from Ljubljana. However, it is somewhat ironic that we would move state funds from Ljubljana, but at the same time we would have a hospital in one place, in Murska Sobota, regional, and worry about the region because we have it there, and in Koper it would still be state, because we have no region because we could not do it. Therefore, there is no possibility of systemic regionalisation, in Slovenia as a whole, under the current regime. I do not pretend that the regionalisation of Slovenia will make the public administration cheaper so that everyone will be satisfied with the provinces. However, I am deeply convinced that if we get to the provinces, the landscapes by establishing them, that we will transfer competences and that we will also transfer some resources, that there will be no more 65 per cent of the income of the state, and probably not 35 municipal, but that some of the regions, so that so much capital will start spinning in these underdeveloped regions to bring development. And that the difference in such a small space of 1:2 will not be equivalent in the case of citizens who are equal under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Proceed, please. Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Perhaps it will hold what some have already said that we may say a little too much and without meaning, but we are wise and tense. I say that we Members are not or are not capable of doing anything in this area. We'd better knock out the suitcases and go home, because the electricity we're burning here is pretty expensive. But solutions to all these problems are very simple. I've told them before. It would have been long ago, long ago, if all those who have authority in hand wanted to change the law on the financing of municipalities were to be given greater powers and more financial resources, and if the municipalities had sufficient financial resources, the authorities would have many arguments or also opportunities to try to stimulate even by pooling themselves on the basis of the current constitution. But why would you if you didn't have to! Why, please. Why should money be taken from the state treasury and given to local communities and hence established, produce effective local self-government. Why, if you don't have to! That's better! That's how you get to rule! This is the effectiveness of the existing system of existing authorities. Same regional development. Why should we put money there if we don't have to? It is better to come up with indirect regional incentives, which are nowhere in the law and which are directly small on the basis of existing additional laws for the root region or the Zagorje region and so on, two specific laws, and so on, which provide some resources for direct regional incentives. Why should we keep giving money if we don't have to, please, you're not stupid! Earlier, one spoke of the lack of political wisdom for the development of regionalism. Yes, on the contrary, please! I am enjoying and laughing, it is high political wisdom, it is the high political wisdom of the authorities who know how it is necessary to mislead the nation, so that it will not be necessary to give money to regional development, so that it will not be necessary to finance municipalities and so on. It's high political wisdom. On the contrary! All that you say, please, turns from one fact to another and to itself in fact, I don't know, you are knowingly deceiving yourself and making sure that it's different than it really is. I don't know why that's necessary. It's hard for me, really. In short, I had enjoyed and laughed before when Mr Anderlič said that the time had finally come for more coherent regional development. And he said, "It's hard to say one thing and do the other, we're not used to it," he said. About the mother of God, the seven crosses and the trouble of that being possible. I just enjoy hearing these wonderful words, meaning them and things. I say, not you talk one, but you do the other, you think one, you say the other, but you do the third, and there's probably some degree ahead that I don't know yet. In short, one step more needs to be taken to develop local self-government for regional development. Provide financial resources, and then everything will change on its own. Then the system will run out, and he'll organize himself. In fact, a pure example of this is regional development. The municipalities are obliged, in fact, to set up regional institutions in the field of regional development, not from the state level and are able to do so and have done so, programmes have also done so. They've done a lot of things. There's only one problem left. They don't have the resources, they don't have the funds. And you don't want to provide them. And that's a fundamental question. And this issue will not be resolved by this mandate and probably not by the next. I am very sorry that I have to spend eight years in the National Assembly and that nothing has happened in this area that went from year to year for pure deceiving, and we are living at the local level, so to speak, we cannot create conditions for the development and development of jobs, not for the development of agriculture, everything is regulated at the state level - this is the country. Thank you so much for her!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u128	Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, chairman. At the same time, please understand me - I'm afraid, or I'm already glad that my discussion with my colleague Kelemini will make this mood even more enjoyable; it's a little more of a joke. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u130	Well, if it increases pleasure, it can't be bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u131	No, that's exactly what this is about. Of course, it is exactly what Mr Kelemina and others have always said that it is a matter of deception, of lies, that I simply need to stress once again what I am already considering in the previous proposal to amend the Constitution to delete Article 143. I reiterate that this has not grown on our kennel, but on the kennel of constitutional experts who have written a major study to complement the draft constitution, as the government has now summarized. First time. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by correct interpretation of Article 143, Article 121 and Article 140, impedes the introduction of the provinces. It does not only hinder the introduction of landscapes and thus regionalisation. What is very important and what Mrs Krebs also talked about is more extensive, from a different perspective, an obstacle to decentralisation. Article 121 is so embarrassing that you cannot, in fact, postpone the performance of state tasks to a lower level, which means that in some way this decentralisation is hampered by this Article. And today it has also been heard in this Chamber, as all state institutions are in Ljubljana. Decentralisation rates cannot be measured from where state institutions are located. This can be one of the external aspects of good will or even more so. But the point is that the state itself decides and powers, State powers are transferred either to the provinces or even to the congregations. With all due respect to those who point out that, if a State grants these powers, it is also necessary to provide funds to the municipalities. Another time. The municipalities cannot be the founder of the provinces. That's not legal. As the experts have written down, which in some ways surprised me, it is legally flawed and unfulfilled; this is what they wrote, I am merely quoting. And that this can be done by the state by law, with open opportunities when we initiate this change process, in order to negotiate with a majority of the law. I personally tend to make sense of introducing a two-thirds majority. Although we must then be aware that we will need time again to agree on the basic concept, but now we have a qualified two-thirds majority, all Members are said to be present. Of course, of course, I also agree, even some of the debaters have pointed out that concerns about the question of which powers will be transferred to a lower level are to another, to the provinces or to the municipalities. There are, of course, well-founded concerns about which jurisdiction from the municipalities will be transferred to the provinces, and here in some ways I agree that it is necessary to be very subtle and, after the content of the task, to be so critical, so reasoned that it is clear that today, what tasks go beyond the competence of a small congregation. This is what the congregations themselves experience as to where they need to connect and solve some common problems. Of course, we are talking about the concept, but today we are not yet deciding on the concept of the law, today we are deciding whether we will remove the legal obstacles to the initiation of the process of introducing the provinces, and if you want, once again, decentralisation. That's what we decide today. The concept itself, and I think there's going to be a lot of talk. And this expert group unanimously concluded that the Government's proposal to amend Articles 121, 140 and 143 is the optimal proposal to intervene in a constitution that will remove all these obstacles. With regard to the compromise proposal, of course, because there has been a lot of talk about it today, I have only one thought. I fear that the introduction of the consent of the individual congregation before the establishment of the provinces would somehow lead to legal chaos. The municipalities would, in my opinion, decide on the principle of usefulness. What at a given time, given my position, given my staff employment, according to the circumstances of such and different answers, I will accept this, and what is not appropriate to me at any given time, but I will refuse. I am sure that, on at least one point, they will all be united, that financial resources must also be dispersed to a lower level. That's right. But if individual municipalities decide in this way, we create some chaos, because the fact is that the state has to have some regulated system. Thus, the provinces must have all the same tasks and legal status at the principal level, on a systemic level. Since then the debate will begin, one is more valuable, one is less valuable, one has five powers of state, the other twenty, the third forty and so on. And, as much as I would have felt that way to introduce some, forgive the Slovenian model they do not know in Europe, in Europe, they have always built a different level of local self-government from above down. And it's nice to hear the landscapes of the people. Yes, but that is not the case, but the Constitutional Court not least, constitutional experts have said that there will have to be a clear political will here, I am thinking mainly of those who doubt the correctness of this solution, that this solution is proposed for good purposes. And, of course, because of these concerns, it seems to me that it is only right to support the Government's proposal, but, of course, in the constitutional law itself, to determine how much of this law is adopted, and to begin decentralisation of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much. There's still a government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Allow me to make a very brief assessment that this debate has been very in-depth, professional and engaged and that it shows a high level of political will in this National Assembly to bring about regionalisation of Slovenia, because it is certainly progress in view of the situation in which we have lived for a decade or twelve years, the situation in which the provinces have not occurred. By supporting the Government's amendments in essence, supporting the possibility of harmonising the final text of this law at this point, perhaps including what the opposition has specifically stressed, or part of it, so that these provinces would not be forced from above down by law, but actually have their say in this matter by the majority qualified in Parliament, perhaps by the municipalities. In fact, voting for the amendments is a vote in favour of this process, such as voting against these amendments by the government to vote for the end of the province project on the basis of constitutional changes. I think we need to be aware of this and in this sense it is somehow the credibility of all those who advocate for the provinces to be tested. Voting against these amendments is the end of the debate on constitutional changes. And vice versa, this opens up the possibility of a great rain going in the direction that was pointed here today. I think it is very good that both sides have found that Slovenia is too centrally organised and that decentralisation is a process that we must follow. The government is firmly determined to continue this process. Its constitutional changes are a bridge that we must all follow together. Political will is, I think we're able to find the same ways. It is true, however, that the introduction of the law in advance, as stated here, is probably not a way to have any particular business support or procedurally strange request. It is not easy to request that the constitutional amendment proposer submit a law to the procedure at the same time, because we must submit the law under the applicable constitution, as I hope that I did not understand these requirements correctly. [[...]] Otherwise, the government has presented, and thus has expressed its conviction and will for decentralisation, a project of landscapes already a year ago, available to all of you, the transfer of powers is foreseen from the country to the provinces and not from the municipalities up there, this is explicitly provided for in this project. In addition, there is a legal draft which shows very clearly what all these powers are, what landscape management is like, how the options for territorial distribution and how the principles of financing are. So you can look at the government's view and this is a project that we intend to implement as soon as there is a constitutional change. I therefore propose that you really support it and thus give the opportunity to upgrade these articles in a direction such as that of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Now, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, Members who have not yet discussed have the right to debate and, because it is an initiative, today I am asking who wants to. Mr. Mogue has already called. Mr. Bayuk. Anyone else? As chairman, do I allow myself to propose five minutes for everyone, if that's all right? Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, it'll be shorter. I have listened with great interest to the Minister's response to everything we have discussed here today, and I really do not think he understands or does not want to understand what our position on this issue was. We have reiterated that it is impossible in our assessment to take any position on this proposal, unless we see the whole picture. And that the whole image of such institutional change in Slovenia, which is allowed in our Constitution, but in the specific case of Article 143, in so far as it requires the consent of all, is in fact impossible, or at least hinders, that in our assessment the reason why this has not occurred is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not prepared at the time, nor today, to explain two key things, from where the powers, what powers and from where the powers of the provinces and, secondly, where the sources of funding are from. Until the government is ready to do so, and in fact in ten years it has not been ready to take a clear position on this, we believe that it is a shopping cat in a jacket, to say good-bye, and we will all understand. As long as we do not know what the government and the great coalition are proposing, we cannot give our consent to this, because it is crucial that we know where the powers, what powers and respected Mr Minister and respected representatives of the government and the great coalition come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u136	Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I think it is certainly the most comfortable to rule from the centre, but it is the most quality to rule from several centres in one country and it seems to me that we have often confused the audiences who are watching us by quoting or by the country or by quoting the region, by the region, by the things that would change the constitution and bring about new territorial division, in Slovenia we would still establish only as they say in Austria the provinces or the provinces, as they say in Italy. It seems to me that for one good life in this country, this is not enough and that any such division in which we speak here will not bring a better quality of life in the Republic of Slovenia. It seems to me that now that we have our own country when we are connected to the European Union, when we are writing the Constitution with it at the same time, we should also have the territorial divisions of Slovenia at the level of the territorial parts in force in the European Union, or we will have such a unique one, if we accept it, and we will have only this division, which we are talking about here today, that we will be easy prey, economic spoils of neighbouring countries or other countries, because the division of only the country, as is now, into NUTC 1, means that the whole country is one statistical region, NUTC 2, the second division where other countries have countries, we do not have, but we are now talking about NUTC 3, and here is a fundamental difference at least in that if we had the division of Slovenia into three countries or into three regions or three regions, it would be possible that when we cross the average of the European Union with gross social product. Look, we have three universities, we have three national theatres, we have three major hospitals, we have a center of Izole, Ljubljana, Maribor, after all, we have three dioceses, and it seems to me that the Members who will replace us in the next term will probably have a job to do if we want to stay in this area in such a way that we will compete with the countries on the Austrian side that are on the northern border, those who are on this western border, the countries on the Italian side or the wider part of Europe, so that we will necessarily connect Slovenia as I said. Otherwise, it would seem to me that the Members are the tenth brothers if they were to join Slovenia in such a way that the first division in the ranking of the country would be the same as the second division in the ranking of the country, which means that we will pay for it in the European Union and we will not get anything from it. And indeed these observations, which respected colleagues and colleagues said in this assembly, that Slovenia is developing very unevenly regionally, receive all the attention. And if we add to that what awaits us when the borders are released, it is more than fitting that we also have to divide Slovenia into at least two or at least three countries, two or three countries, and then within these countries, into the division that we are talking about here today. And given what formerly respected colleague Bajuk has said, I have a minute to 17 to say that in the rapporteur on page 29, these tasks have been transferred from the ministries. What are we supposed to do now, or the provinces that we are talking about here today, because that can be viewed by anyone, and that will probably be no big deal. But it seems to me that all political parties share more easily that they work from one centre, because if they came to three countries, they would have three country governments, three country heads. Now, if this is good or not, which means that these countries would have powers, they would have their own resources and should work. As soon as we move on, however, the question is, Which party will have a country head or which party would have a majority in the country. You know that these elections are indicators outside the European Union, who won or who didn't win the country, and then for the national elections. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u138	In view of the business provision, which is very awkward, the government would not be able to answer now, but questions were put somehow on both sides and I think it would be good that the government is planning a little more time in the future for such, serious topics and that it takes time to explain things as it should be. I would therefore now ask the Minister to try, however, to respond to what has been said here today in these last two debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try to answer in less than a minute. In 2002, the government developed a project entitled The introduction of landscapes in the Republic of Slovenia. It's got four ingredients. The first component is the competences where they are fully listed by all ministries of competence transferred from the country to the provinces. The second part of the project is the management of the provinces where the authorities are mentioned. The third part is the territorial division, where three variants of possible territorial distribution are listed, with all criteria and also with image material. And the fourth part is the financial component or funding source. This project has been available to all parliamentary groups for some years, perhaps less than three quarters of a year. And from this project we have drawn most of the data to explain this constitutional change, which also has a lot to say about the issues that you are raising here, say what powers, what landscapes, what governance. On the basis of the amendment to the Constitution, this project will be accompanied by an explanation and will display comprehensively the implementation fees for the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution will be decided today at 9 p.m. That's why we're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law, EPA 700-III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amendments to Articles 90, 97, 99 and 170 of the Constitution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an additional explanation of the proposal. Two minutes. Please, Dr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u141	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current regulation of the referendum, as you know, is very broad, even comparatively legal. We have an incredibly large number of different entities that can propose a referendum, and also a number of types of referendums, which are most unusual in terms of comparative arrangements. Therefore, the proposal for an amended and amended Article 90 of the Constitution repeals in theory, as well as a comparative regime disputed and also in a comparative regime at national level an unknown preliminary legislative referendum. This is a fundamental change that we are proposing, and we are also proposing the introduction of a ban on a referendum for certain types of legislation. We propose to marry a round of beneficiaries to the request for a referendum only to the majority of members of the national assembly and 40,000 voters. However, in the constitutional audit referendum, instead of the 30 Members who may have requested it so far, we are transferring to 40,000 voters. The quorum of the majority of all voters for the referendum is also abolished. This is a brief presentation of all proposed amendments related to the referendums and I propose that you support them after the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which also informed the assembly in writing. The views of the groups are now being presented. First, the position of New Slovenia will be presented by mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Well-known representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The referendum is a correction of the decision of the national assembly, i.e. those political decisions in Parliament taken by Members. This is a fact that happens according to preferences, according to wishes, according to our country's position. So it's actually about people's will being able to correct parliamentary political decision. We stress this in New Slovenia that it is necessary to maintain this, because we have a relatively short period of time for democracy. Especially the true human will. The referendum can also, in our constitution, be a possibility to enforce human will by means of a legal initiative. It's a so-called previous referendum. It also makes sense so that people's will can be expressed in the form of laws. We are also critical of some of the referendums. However, we cannot be critical of the decisions of the people who went to the referendum and decided. In fact, referendums have also shown that people's will has shown a different opinion than the parliamentary majority. And this must be respected and learned from it. In cases, this has been demonstrated through a short period of Slovenian democracy, the stronger the ruling coalition, the more bold the decisions are and the more likely the initiatives are also in terms of referendums. We should be aware of that. If the ruling coalition were to test the mood of citizens, there would be a quick decision on how to act in behalf of citizens. In Novi Slovenije we are not to become a referendum merely some kind of ornament in the constitution, which is extremely difficult to realize. If anything is inappropriate, it is also necessary to abolish some things by means of the law on referendum and human initiative, with changes to it, and we also support it. It seems unacceptable to us that the circle of candidates for the referendum will be revived. The proposal seeks to put forward the State Council as a possible proposer. If we take that away from this country's world, then it really doesn't play any more roles, and without formally ending it, we're actually going to shut it down. We do not agree in the parliamentary group that this should be brought to light, as well as the possibility of a referendum initiative by Members. Narrowing options [[?]] specific questions. So far, no question such as this has been disputed, or was it possible to eliminate the unconstitutional referendum issue from the process. Therefore, we already have instruments, a proper legal basis, so that such things cannot happen. It is possible, however, to limit the referendum only to specific questions of abuse and will. The proposal, as it was, shows the type of ambiguity and problems that would have occurred. So these are the key comments of the New Slovenia Group on the amendment of the articles relating to the regulation of the referendum in our country. These two mechanisms, i.e. the previous referendum and confirmatory, have been established in the world, one more, the other less, based on experience, both those weak, tragic and good ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The DeSUS position will be presented by Mr Franz Lenko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives or members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members! In our Group of Members, we are aware of the importance of the Institute of Referendum, since it alone in Western countries is the most democratic means of decision-making with which the people directly exercise their will. We are also aware that the existing referendum regime on the basis of the current constitutional and legal provisions is not the most fortunate and therefore constitutes one of the more controversial professional and political issues, as it directly interferes with the relationship between indirect and direct democracy. Because of the nature of the Institute of Referendum, it is very difficult in the current situation to come up with a uniform concept of regulation of that problem. The government has therefore proposed a package of articles with which it has tried to fully address the referendum issue. The expert analyses of public opinion research and comparative studies have confirmed the Government's position that both the provisions of the current law on referendum and human initiative, as well as the constitutional provisions on which the law is based, are essentially inconclusive and that we have in practice such an arrangement of a legislative referendum, which is a Slovenian speciality, since it only allows the statute of the referendum to be misused for purposes for which it has not been established. Since there was no consensus on the government proposal, the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly decided only on a new proposal tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups on 7 February 2003. That proposal builds on the government's solution under an acceptable agreement for the opposition parliamentary groups, while also trying to respond to the criticism of the section on some of the government's solutions. The new text of Article 90 of the Constitution, proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups, is therefore an attempt to reshape consensus, which would introduce a solution to the current inconsistencies, as they create political tensions regarding the use of the Institute, not as regards the referendum issue or problem. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners believes that the proposed solution to the preliminary legislative referendum is appropriate and that, as such, it will solve a number of problems that have arisen with regard to the previous legislative referendum. In our view, the proposed solution clearly defines the role of the legislative body and the role of the initiators for the referendum of the people. The legislative body shall act on its own motion on its own, while the people at the referendum shall decide whether or not they agree with the proposed solutions in the bill. The solutions that determine when the referendum is not admissible are also acceptable for our Group of Members and the solutions that determine when the decision at the referendum is taken. For these reasons, the Democratic Party of Pensioners Group will support that proposal and hopes that the current professional differences and uncertainties regarding the use of the referendum institute will be overcome and that the use of this institution will finally be Europeanised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u147	Your Honors are here! I think we should first ask ourselves, or answer the question, what is this referendum and why, of course, the referendum is taking place. I think my colleague Petty Officer got something right about this. The referendum is true that in recent times there has been a very common phenomenon, that, of course, it has recently become at least at the discretion of the national party, politics and, above all, government policy is increasingly aggressive and does not allow for debate. This, however, proves that this policy is wrong, proves, as a rule, positive referendums. So the referendum is essentially nothing else, and here I will take Mr Drobnič's position as a correction of the decision of the National Assembly and, of course, with the more general, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore find it very inappropriate to talk about the abuse of the Institute of Referendum in the parliamentary group. Who can abuse the Institute of Referendum? According to our assessment, the National Assembly is taking decisions on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which are contrary to the interests of this country. And I personally estimate that we are or that you have all forgotten together what the task of the National Assembly is. The task of the National Assembly is to adopt laws, such as laws, which will enable most citizens to stay better after a year and not in any way such laws as citizens do not want, and on the other hand these same laws will be metals, in a parable, a bad light on this country. It therefore seems personal to me to limit the referendum activities, at least the referendum issues, to the quorum needed for the referendum, or to the right to propose, extremely inappropriate. Restricting the referendum only leads to one point, namely restricting the rights of citizens and a citizen of our country. I believe or regret that it is in the interests of the ruling majority. Of course, it is easier to rule in such a way that man, politics, government policy does not take into account the needs and demands of people. According to our assessment, according to the national party's assessment, policy could avoid a good part of the referendum issues if the decisions of this national assembly and the executive branch of government were more flexible. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were willing to listen on the one hand to the social partners, on the other hand, as we said before, local communities. Government policy is not ready to give up its monologue. Government policy is not preparing to replace its dialogue monologue and there is a problem of the frequency of referendum issues. It is true that in the public eye it is trying to create the impression that in recent times all referendum applications or referendum initiatives have been narrowly targeted at individual groups of people, to solve only and only their situations, but the fact is that this group of people has chosen to referend or to policy on their behalf, because this national assembly has not so much wisdom and would find a solution that would allow this group of people to have some quality, or the law that would have been applied to them, according to our assessment, fairly. The fact is also that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and unfortunately also the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is taking decisions that have less and less to do with the welfare of Slovenians and Slovenes. That it has become the main criterion for acceptance or for non-admission of the law exclusively the likeness of Europe. A few days ago, we heard one of the arguments why a certain law should be supported. Because Europe is asking us to be generous. So, the main arguments of this National Assembly and these governments, which have the same denominator in the back, this is the Republic of Slovenia, have become only Europe. We are forgetting our primary being, that we are still the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and that behind me still are the presidents or representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. All changes or proposed changes to the Constitution, as indicated by the Government, are, of course, going in the wrong direction, according to our assessment. They are going in the same direction that implies a reduction in fundamental human rights and freedoms, which is codecision within their own country. To abolish a specific specification of the referendum, that is, the previous one, thus seeking to protect policy from people and to destroy one of those codecision options. This is, in our opinion, nothing more than to build an even bigger barrier or a wall, however you wish, between the customers of the law and those who impose laws on the other side. But whenever this barrier arose in history, to a certain extent high, it always followed what no so-called, self-appointed civilised society enjoyed. It's a political shift from reality. I personally estimate that unfortunately Slovenian policy has already made a quite strong shift from reality and away from its citizens. A further amendment to Article 97 and a speech on the limitation of those who may propose a referendum, i.e. the Council of State, points to duality. When we warned or opened up a dilemma in the national party about the need for a state council, the entire national assembly spoke, no, the State Council was needed because of this, the one and the third. And the third was said for the right to a referendum. Today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing and, under the slogans, demanding the withdrawal of this right in the functioning of the State Council. So, how many things are there going to be left for the state world? Why, then, is it simply not listening to the proposal of the parliamentary national party to simply say so and we no longer need the state council. When we proposed this in the National Assembly and asked for the signatures of the other Members and Members in order to obtain the required number of signatures, there was no support for this. Today, this proposal, which has the same substantive claim, will receive support. And how else can we call this a double morality? I hardly know another more appropriate term for this. In the national party, we addressed a proposal from the Minister or his cabinet a while ago, which we have focused on the desire for the referendum to take as little of the state budget as possible. Because the fact is that such a frequency of referendums is taken by financial resources, each about 500 million Slovenian tolars, which is still very little compared to the country's loss in other areas, but only a referendum question is considered a very large amount. We have addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the initiative or proposal to consider the possibility of a referendum to take place once a year. Therefore, in this country, it would be stipulated that there is one day in the year when different referendum questions are raised. This would maintain the Institute of Referendum and, secondly, save public finances. Despite a reasoned initiative, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not give an answer. I believe this is a difficult request. However, I believe that this is one of those solutions to the referendum that would take this country a step further. However, unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not respond in the slightest. Therefore, in the national party, there is no way we can agree to the amendments to Articles 90, 97 and 99. We estimate that in all the proposals to amend the individual articles of the Constitution are exclusively aimed at restricting the rights of citizens and citizens. The referendum issue and its frequency and thus the price could be reduced to a minimum through two measures. Both measures have been offered to you in the parliamentary group of the national party, both to the national assembly and to the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, for the first time, by starting to understand the purpose of the policy, in particular this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That it is not intended for itself or for its purpose not to serve the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but for citizens and citizens. And a second time. Through the financial aspect, consider the performance, or the existence of a one-day option, referendumly, per year. And to meet the electorate and the voters with a number of questions. That would make sense, and that would be state-of-the-art, according to our assessment. However, there is certainly no state-of-the-art action of the Ministry or Government in the form it gave for today's consideration of the item on the agenda. We're not going to support the motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the United List's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In addition to the election, the referendum is the only form of direct decision-making between citizens and citizens. It is one of the forms of exercising the authority of the people, but not the only one. Under Article 3 of the Constitution, the authority of the people is also exercised through the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. The referendum is the most democratic form of declaration of human will, but not necessarily the most appropriate and most quality. When and how the referendum is used to provide democratic content in addition to democratic form, it is therefore a matter of constitutional and legal regulation. The Institute of Referendum in Parliamentary Democracies of European Countries is generally not used. The arrangements are also very different in this case. With regard to the issues that we are discussing the most in our country, however, no country is aware of the previous legislative referendum, which raises the most questions for us. Only Switzerland knows him, but not with regard to changes to laws, but with regard to constitutional changes In all countries there is a limited range of issues that can be decided at the referendum. However, according to the content of article 90, our Constitutional Court has ruled that restrictions on referendum issues are not possible. In all countries, citizens are very restrictively defined, for example, candidates for the referendum only in Switzerland and Italy, and as a rule, the parliaments or the presidents of the countries are themselves. The Comparative Law Institute study, from which I have taken these data, also mentions the following: "The referendum as a way of deciding does not have a "a priori" monopoly on democratic decision-making, therefore it is not possible to evaluate it uniformly. In this we find examples of his abuse." So the Comparative Law Institute also talks about abuse and the possibility of manipulating it to achieve certain political objectives. The use of the referendum should take into account all the advantages it offers for democratic decision-making, but also the limitations that are objectively contained or derived from it. If the referendum is to be an effective form of direct democracy, it should only be used exceptionally for the most important political issues, but it is not appropriate to decide on very difficult, professional and complex issues, especially if they cannot be created with transparent and understandable alternatives. And what do our people think of the referendum? In a recent survey conducted by Del in October, only 38% of respondents believe that referendums are an essential tool for democratic decision-making. Only 31% think they always express people's will. Over 68% of them would be for the date of the year on which the referendums will take place. Over 80% would like to see a minimum participation set, which is a condition that the referendum is in force. And over 75% of them would like to determine the minimum percentage to be achieved for the success of the referendum. The legal profession, European democratic practice and the majority of people therefore not only allow but even expect constitutional changes to the referendum. In doing so, we stress, of course, that the referendum can never be abused by people. That's our belief, too. But he can be abused by politics. And that's what's happening with us. The National Assembly therefore has the opportunity to properly regulate the constitutional provisions on the referendum. Therefore, in the United List of Social Democrats, we support proposals to amend Article 90 of the Constitution on the referendum. We stress that, with the support of the proposed changes, we do not yet determine their final content. The proposal already adopted by the Constitutional Commission on the referendum is acceptable to us. Above all, it is essential that the binding preliminary legislative referendum replaces it with a human initiative and a referendum on it. However, it would also be useful to allow the constitution to establish a round of persons who are not eligible for a referendum and how often referendums should be carried out. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposed amendments in order to allow the referendum to consolidate the democratic and primacy of the rule of law in Slovenia rather than allow abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u150	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the last year of this mandate, we finally made the most important decision to say whether the real reason why such a great coalition was formed at the beginning of this mandate was justified or not. When this government was elected that we have, I spoke to one of the members of this government, who asked me why they needed such a large coalition, which costs so much, in terms of ministerial cities and so on, that two parties to this coalition needed to reform the constitution, in particular to limit the right to a referendum decision. Three years from now, it's gonna weigh. The referendum is practical for those who have been in power, decades and more for decades in Slovenia, ranging from the very beginning. The first year after the adoption of the new constitution, after the fact that the country had been virtually born with plebiscite, there was little to hear from the referendum. However, when the people of the referendum decided differently than the current authorities wanted, these comments began to form, host, and finally led to these proposals, which virtually destroy the referendum decision. So far, the government coalition in a similar composition has tried to block referendum decisions mainly with the constant amendments to the referendum law and the human initiative. I think that more than ten amendments to the law have been adopted so far, and more than ten times this law has been amended. And it's always tried in this law to lower these democratic standards, not raise them. With every change, there were more restrictions. In my opinion, too, in clear contradiction to the Constitution, the constitution of the referendum does not restrict anything; the current constitution of the referendum does not restrict anything. The law already amended by this ruling coalition allows the Constitutional Court to effectively prevent referendum decisions. This is, in my opinion, an eclectic, unconstitutional provision of this law. We have in our constitution many things arranged or more things arranged, just as no one else does. We have some things that we say we are raising democratic standards with them in a specific way. I don't think you'll find a constitution in the world that defines the rights of minorities who even have the right to direct representation in the legislative body. I think that for such a number of minorities as we have, in no other country do they have a defined direct representation in the National Assembly. But we are not saying that we will now end this, because no one else has it, but we are saying that we have raised democratic standards, and we are offering it as an example to others. But when it comes to a referendum, we hear here that because many countries do not have a similar solution, but we must now put an end to it, even though it is high democratic standards. The arguments against the referendum or the concerns that have so far hosted against the referendum have been: that the referendums are expensive, that they can be abused and heard years ago too, I will say, a real pearl between the concerns about the referendum that has been announced, that referendums do not reflect the will of the people, do not reflect the will of the people. You're imagining a more ridiculous comment on the referendum. People decide at a referendum, and then some authority tells them that it doesn't reflect human will. But what he thinks reflects more human will or what? Which other instrument, however, reflects human will more than what is decided at the referendum? It is up to those who are interested in it, who come there and who are identified and who have not so far come up with a better way to reflect human will. The idea that the referendums are expensive is even more expensive if this is the reason to save something, to abolish the government, will be a much cheaper life. I mean, that's true. I'm sorry about the expression. With many referendums we have saved a lot in Slovenia, not at costs, but because it costs as much as any decision, but by preventing the negative consequences of some of the solutions adopted by the authorities and preventing them through referendums. If a referendum can be abused, I don't know, a car can be abused, it can be used by a bank robber when he robs a bank, but that's why we won't stop the cars. So this is a completely inappropriate comment. In the amendments to the law, as well as in the basic text of the law on referendum and human initiative, which I mentioned earlier, there are countless safeguards that prevent any abuse of this issue. Some of the fuses are only in nicknames and there are anti-constitutional restrictions. In addition to the fact that the referendum has been increasingly attacked over the last five, six years as a way of democratic decision-making, there has been, of course, also the fact that the overwhelming majority had double criteria when it came to the results of the referendums. Thus we had a referendum on the majority electoral system, which, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, was never legal, but on the other hand we had a decision of the Constitutional Court still in force in the Municipality of Koper. Following the Constitutional Court ruling, Koper is an anti-constitutional municipality, and should be divided, but there a referendum was held, which has decided differently and is now valid for the people. And those who are now the most committed to ending the referendum have in this case advocated that the will of the people is true. in the case of Kopra, we have a decision of a constitutional court that is resting in peace, and we have a municipality of Koper, which is still unsplit, is unconstitutional, but so decided by the people at the referendum, and we said then that this will must be respected. The perfect double criteria for endorsing the referendum. The story of the electoral system is well known, and I wouldn't repeat it. At that time, some who had talked for years about how the referendum was a democratic way of deciding, suddenly changed the board and began to talk about how people should rise up against the Constitutional Court. However, what we have ahead of us today, both a government proposal that is a little more modest, as well as a coalition proposal, a government coalition that is very ambitious, practically limits, in a very long way, the possibilities of referendum decision-making to a minimum or it destroys it, represents a drastic decline in democratic standards in Slovenia. If this is accepted, Slovenia will be a different country, democracy will be written in other letters. A significantly smaller option will be available for citizens of this country to prevent the harmful effects of unreasonable decisions by the authorities when important matters are significantly less likely to result in the arrogance and complacency of the authorities, which are always increasing when they are the same in power for decades and more, however limited. If such a decision is taken, the Slovenian Constitution will be substantially different than it was voted on. Slovenia will also become different than we voted for in the plebiscite in 1991, and in fact it will not be a way to degrade the act itself with which we made this country. Therefore, it should also be borne in mind that, finally, with the referendum, we have decided for the European Union for NATO and that, when it comes to important decisions, people should be given the opportunity to make a direct decision, and people should also be left alone, so much needs to be done, of course, kindly asking citizens to trust that in the event that they do not agree with much of the majority, what the current authority does is that they can also express this disagreement at the referendum. And they make a different decision. If this option is not or is virtually as limited as the proposal you have put forward shows, then we can actually get the situation when they will not only be 10 or 30 years old, but they will be 70 years in power one and the same as they were in Mexico. Our parliamentary group will strongly oppose these changes, including any other restrictions on the right to direct decision-making of people, because we believe that it is a drastic decline in democratic standards in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Janez Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, welcome. I would like to present the views of our Group of Members. The proposal to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution in the work relating to the regulation of the referendum is an extremely important area, so we have examined it very carefully and in detail in our Group. The proposal to amend Article 90 of the Constitution, which refers to the amendment to the definition of a legislative referendum in order to be defined only as an ex-post legislative referendum, raised concerns in our parliamentary group at the outset. We have examined the opinion of the expert commission and domestic and foreign experience and have found that this amendment gives greater weight to the subsequent legislative referendum which remains in this proposal. We believe that the proposed solution, which foresees that Members or the National Assembly will first play its legislative role, is appropriate and meaningful, therefore we support the amendment of Article 90 in this sense, in order to define only a subsequent legislative referendum. In our parliamentary group, we also support the possibility of allowing for a referendum on the law submitted by voters, the so-called people's initiative, within this article. We believe that this is an important institute for the participation of voters and voters in the legislative process. We further believe that it is essential that the competent proposers laid down by the applicable Constitution are not changed. We are convinced that we must maintain the possibility for the National Assembly to call a referendum on the law at the request of 40,000 voters, either on a proposal from a third of Members or on a proposal from the Council of State. Colleagues and colleagues, here I would like to point out, because no one in the presentations so far seems to have noticed that on the 12th page of this document, which we received at this point, in the positions below point 1, let me quote this: "The Constitutional Commission first defines the legislative referendum as an ex-post referendum, at the request of a third of its Members, at the request of at least 40,000 voters and the Council of State." Colleagues and colleagues, I'm sure that there's a mistake here, or a press scribbling or whatever we call it, it should say "and the state world," not "and the state world." We are always in our party or in our parliamentary group [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] "Or the state world" - "and" is wrong. Colleagues and colleagues, in our Group of Members, we have always opposed the changes that would reduce the powers of the National Assembly and the Council of State. We believe that lowering the level of parliamentary democracy is unacceptable and unacceptable. We will therefore support the initiation of a procedure in our parliamentary group to amend only Article 90 of the Constitution, but we will not support the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the other Articles, 97. Articles 99 and 170. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Igor Štemberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Honorable National Assembly! Members of the Young Slovenia Party oppose the proposed amendment to Article 90 of the Constitution. We believe that it is too radical to interfere with the established standard of direct democracy in Slovenia. It is true that sometimes existing regulation allows for certain deviations and, some say, abuse, but rather it is a matter of legal and political culture or of non-culture rather than of regulatory inadequacy. Therefore, the formal level achieved by the institutions of direct democracy cannot be limited or reinvigorated. It could have been altered, but today we are not witnesses; it is about deleting something without proper compensation. In the Young Slovenia Party, we cannot get rid of the feeling that these constitutional changes are primarily a matter of political decision as to how much it means to anyone to be able to referendum decisions and not to whom. The fact is that every referendum costs something, but it is the price of democracy that we must pay if we are to maintain such a degree of democracy in our country. We are in the Party of Young Slovenia for the largest possible participation of citizens in social and political life and thus for direct decision-making of citizens. If we are in favour of this, of course we are also against this proposal and therefore we will also vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The debates between Members and Members are followed. Magus first. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. A few words in his own name. Just experience with the rule of this ruling coalition shows that the referendum initiative and referendum, as such, are increasingly needed in this country. I do not see, at least so far I have not seen any abuse, but the right and appropriate correction of the political decision in the National Assembly. In this way, as you propose, a referendum would become a truly more constitutional ornament than a real tool for the enforcement of human will and for the correction of decisions taken in the National Assembly. In any case, we see the exclusion of social partners happening in Slovenia, civil society being incorporated into the country, and if you abolish civil society, then we have all the noble extensions for the corporate state, and with such forms we have already done in history. Unfortunately, even a corporate state and corporate leadership, such a state does not tolerate referendums, are in its way, and it is the expression of the authorities in such a country that, if it is abuse, people want something else and so on. As this legislation is done, we have had a chance to see the law of hunting. This is supposed to be a law that the coalition or whatever has already put into the parliamentary procedure. Then you see, the owners don't ask anything, they're like a worthless ornament, then an agri-land chamber, nothing. In the government, the coalition is united in its support as if it were joking with these citizens. And that's why referendums are needed. You'll cripple the state world to the end. Either way, it's an institution that doesn't have any power. Now you're gonna take that away from him. How much does the referendum cost? That was already said. If this is an instrument to eliminate stupidity, which costs the country a lot of money, then don't let us get hurt. Look, the government's decision to issue bonds, Slovenian bonds, state bonds, the euro's dollar installments. On this basis, the country lost 25 billion tolars. So the referendums that will take place in Slovenia for the next 200 years, but with this difference, that if a referendum is held in this country, it is money from taxpayers, where it is budget money, but it goes back to taxpayers. In the event of a move made by the government, inter-currency values shall be transferred to foreigners. You don't have to listen because you're so smart, you know that. Equally, the Elan management award, as we see the two billion additional prize, covers all the costs of the referendums so far. And that'll be three or four. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u158	Sorry to interrupt. Can I please have this omisizi on the left side, Mr Merlo and Beumann, and so on. Be so kind as to do this outside, because you don't have to be here. That's really impossible, because you keep distracting everyone who debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u159	However, I agree that, with regard to the law on referendum and human initiative, we can make significant improvements, significant improvements. The organisational approach mentioned by Mr Pece to call for a referendum to set a date on one day a year helps to reduce costs and to enable people's will. It was too short a democratic period to play democracy in this way. You probably know that very well, to conclude, I say that you begin to appreciate democracy when you have lost it, when you no longer have it. This can happen to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Peche. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Just a few questions. Slovenia was formed by a referendum, Slovenia also joined NATO with a referendum and also in the EU. These were the real expressions of the people's will, because 70% of the referendum was also present, and 90% of the voters and voters in the case of the establishment of the Slovenian state. And, of course, they cannot compare themselves with the referendums that were forced, where 20 per cent and a few per cent of the voters took part. Second, just one more question. Don't go, ladies and gentlemen, pure demagogies. The provision on one day of the annual vote in the referendum is possible if we end the previous legislative referendum or if we totally block the work of the national assembly. What do you want? In the previous legislative referendum, it is not possible to have this provision, so let us accept, the proposal is and we can also accept the idea that the referendum is only once a year, otherwise "coloring" each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u162	Thank you. Next up is Mr Leopold Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Chairman. Referendums can be manipulated and certain things need to be changed. He can also manipulate the proposal before us. The claim that someone is cancelling the referendum, that someone is proposing the end of the referendum, is manipulation. No one generally shuts down any referendum. No one proposes that the subsequent legislative referendum be abolished, not to mention what is written. Nobody's talking about it. But by the way, you forget it and you say, "Somebody wants to end the referendum." No one wants to end the referendum. The rules have to be worked out. We're talking about people's will. I'm going to put one statement where someone says, yes, it's apples, and probably bananas, so I don't say pears. In the national elections, about 70% of the people took part in these elections and put us here to adopt legislation. Some referendum, such as trade, was attended by 27% of the people. What is more credible when we talk about people's will and when we talk about numbers? So I won't draw these comparisons myself. People have already been asked in one survey, which of these referendums did you think you needed. And the answers are as follows: on the integration into the Natoin EU, which is a clear question for the referendum, 86% and more people believe that it is right that this referendum, on the electoral system, is nearly 60% of people, on the return on investment in the telephone network, 32% think that a referendum is needed for this issue, on the construction of the thermoelectric power plant Therbje 22% thinks that a referendum is needed, on the treatment of infertility 17.8% people think that it is necessary and 77% that it is not necessary, on the opening time of trade 15.8% thinks that this referendum was needed, and 82.8% think that it was not necessary, on the property transformation of railways. 15 percent believe that it was needed, 80 percent and more, that the referendum was not needed. It's also the will of the people. That's what people think. And that's how people say it. Speaking of which, we're talking about this will. But at this point, of course, some of us just don't want to hear it. The proposal before us is that this area be regulated, that the referendum is the highest form in people's elections, that when there are really issues that people should decide on. No one cancels the referendum, no one claims that for things that are really questions about the referendum, people should not go to the referendum. But don't let people go to referendums like the ones we talked about. And this is the vast majority of our referendums where people think between 15 and 20 percent that it was appropriate. Things need to be settled in the part where we agree and where we write down how many people should decide after all. Not that three come to the referendum and decide. This is what my colleague Brejc and I, if I recall correctly, had a single debate three years ago on this very issue. In short, the proposal we have, and I'll back him up, sort things out. He won't stop, he won't stop, he won't take away anyone's right to decide, and he won't speak. That's why, if we say otherwise, manipulation. As is possible manipulation of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I say good-bye if I've heard too much. Did you indicate the source where you got it? That's good for the public. Previously, Mr Pukšič, for example, cited resources, and that is correct. And I'm also asking you because the public is watching this so that people can know what the pattern was.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u165	I didn't want to do commercials for someone else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u166	If you're quoting something, it's actually a matter of honesty.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u167	Mr President, on your question, I must do this and I will. The Del poll, the work of the Contact did according to a pattern that he always does, this survey. It was published on Saturday, October 4, 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much. It wasn't a commercial, it was just a regular source. Good. We can proceed. Mr. Stemberger? Yeah. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that these assumptions and references by Mr Kremjar are essentially irrelevant. I don't know what Serbian policy would probably give today to prevent us from having legal participation in the elections as they do. Apparently, they won't be able to elect the president. People aren't interested. He's as disillusioned as we are. They think that Parliament should do the work instead. Parliament, Slovenia, does not do that. And then, in a small percentage, they go to the referendum. They're wasting a part of the week. But those who go and those who decide against what this House has decided for the most part. And today you were talking about wisdom. If you were wise, too, Mr Potrč, who is probably the oldest among us, Members - I mean among Members, not by age, but as a member of the most probable policy, after an internship to express yourself - then we would not have passed, I cannot say otherwise than stupidity - the law on artificial fertilisation to simplify. Public research was against, people were against. You voted the law here in Parliament and you said it would be so and so. The arguments of the medical profession, the psychologists, the sociologists, I don't know who all of them, the theologians, didn't help - you voted the solution as planned. And what's left? Yes, the fact that, in direct democratic expression, people say what they think about it, no matter what participation was. Most of the time, they said no. The same was true for TET 3, when the profession said we were going into a missed investment, too expensive an investment - nothing helped. You said we'd give this stem or suture work so much and so much capital start. But people understood that this was a missed investment, and they refused to do so. How much talk has been given about returning overpaid phone bills! It didn't help. Then, of course, you calculated that you could literally get people to oppose. But we are Slovenians, thank God, a pretty honest people in this part of Europe, and people voted in a referendum that it was necessary in some way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u170	Wait a minute. Excuse me. Mr Rupar and others, Mr Sušnik and Mr Vizjak, well, all three, please let Mr Sok finish his debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u171	They don't bother me, because I'm gonna say what I think needs to be said. People are at the referendum no matter what percentage they participated in, but those who came - of course they all had the opportunity - they said this should be returned in that way. The second is that the government doesn't want to do this. Why doesn't he want to do human will? What is power without responsibility? Power without responsibility is tyranny! And that's what's happening in this country. And since you have understood this, this matter must now be corrected in such a way that this mechanism of referendum decision is somehow reduced. The same thing happened at the railways. This is a billiard's referendum, but we have done something that Europe is not doing today: today in England railways are reunited, the country is buying them off because they have found that they have gone in the wrong direction. And we don't want to get out of this - and we said that here in Parliament - to learn nothing. No, you said we'd split the railroads. And you're going to divide them into three parts. This solution will be expensive when we say it again, look, in the west they go where they went apart, together again, because it doesn't work. And then, there's nothing left to do but invite people to a referendum, and that 600 million is certainly much cheaper than learning from such big mistakes. And I'll say one more thing. As a Member, I have this opportunity to listen to all the arguments and then I can decide and vote. When Mr Potch answers, I'm sure with my arguments he rarely convinces me. Besides, this referendum issue doesn't seem to convince me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues. The appointed time is approaching, but allow it. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, my distinguished colleague, Sašo Peče, said a number of things about the opinion of the Slovenian National Party on amendments or the proposal to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in conjunction with the referendums. What I'd like to add is this. With all due respect to our colleagues, Mr Sok, we are speaking today, a referendum yes or no, restricting yes or no, it is not fair that we are now referring to who was smart and who was not smart because it was mentioned Zasavje. Another time. Who is to blame for having such and other referendums, such as are good, those that people feel are not good, or are not guilty of the constitution, or are guilty of the national assembly? If we do not find a common solution, the only instrument for democratic will to express itself in a democratic country is the referendum. Good or bad. I agree. There were a lot of unnecessary referendums. You agree, some on this one, some on the other side. What if I asked you, we're going to the European Union with May. The constitutional treaty or constitution of the state of five hundred million people in which we will live is adopted. What if the Slovenian National Party, for example, requested a referendum, requested a referendum on a decision on a constitutional contract? Is that a mistake? Today's aim is to limit the referendums by not deciding on a constitutional treaty or any other issue that will arise. Or if we talk, I won't relive my memories, and I won't mind our recent debate, at the last regular session of the National Assembly, about the deleted. We're looking for options, we're looking for reason, we're not getting reasonable, what's left? A referendum. So the referendum is the direct will to make decisions, smart or stupid forgive the expression, necessary or unnecessary. If we are counting against the content and damage that may result from the wrong decision, there is still a referendum in the institution that can help to make a good, smart and democratic decision. So, dear fellows, let us not restrict our constitutional rights, but let me speak to the first person of the plural, myself when we sometimes lack reasonableness in deciding on this legislative body.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! This is one of many proposals for a constitutional change. I could say that there are probably some who justify changing the constitution. Most of them prove that we never know what the Constitution is or what it judges or what it does not mean. We don't even seem to know how to change the constitution. Here I think, given the respect of this act, and that the content of the Constitution is not and cannot be the subject of certain political coalitions. The Constitution cannot and must not change every time the ruling coalition considers certain solutions to be disruptive, and if not otherwise, we are going to change the constitution. "Bloop" on it! This proposal, which we are now considering, is a genuine referendum, is certainly a typical example or product of the current political moment. So far, there have been several referendums in Slovenia, and except in one case, if I reject the self-sustaining plebiscite, and the ruling coalition has in all cases received a negative response to its strange, often arrogant enforcement of certain solutions, the referendums have been negative for the government. Restricting referendums, which is also the subject of this proposal, is an attempt for the government or coalition to avoid human control over its work. Just the results in the referendum show a picture of a part of the government, a kind of mirror of the government, is a picture of what citizens think about its work. Apparently, the government mirror has always shown an unpleasant picture in each referendum, a bit distorted, sometimes very distorted, and, of course, the ruling majority wants to prevent people from telling themselves what they think about her work. The proposals to restrict the right of expression of the referendum will are unacceptable and unacceptable, so I will certainly not be able to support this proposal in order to start the procedure. It is unacceptable to restrict the implementation of the referendum, in particular with such broad concepts as the proposal, so that in fact any content can be compressed into this framework and can be assessed to meet the conditions if things are sufficiently disturbing. This is important because the referendum has recently become the only instrument for rejecting the harmful consequences of majority decisions in Parliament and the government as well as the only instrument for rejecting the consequences of the current authority. Now we're in a situation where instead of a ruling coalition changing behavior, because obviously the image is a little bit distorted, it wants to replace the mirror because of its beautiful image. This is absurd if the government does not take into account that there are citizens in the country who can say their will to express their will and say what they think about the ruling. The government is unaware that it is essentially a service for citizens and not an orderly element in the country. This is unacceptable because it means reducing democratic standards. Therefore, this is not exactly the reason for us to start a constitutional change procedure right on this segment. And to conclude, when we have just heard the results of the survey, whether individual referendums are needed, I would say that I find the results quite normal. For certain things, people understand perfectly normally that in normal situations and, I will say, with the normal majority of such problems, they would certainly solve in the government or in Parliament. However, because we do not have a normal democratic situation, precisely because of our arrogance, we are using the last instrument that people still have, this is a referendum. And that this is really the last instrument of people, proving results. I am even surprised that some of the themes have received so many percent, indeed, because they could also be resolved in Parliament and in the government. And that is how, ladies and gentlemen, those results can be interpreted, even in such a way that we have an abnormal democratic situation in our country and that we must therefore serve the referendum. Even so, gentlemen, we can interpret this. This is a different view of interpretation of these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u177	Thank you very much. It is certainly a referendum for meaningful or necessary corrections to people in policy-making processes. I agree that the issue of the referendum in Slovenia is poorly regulated. I think that no one is satisfied with it too much, that it brings a lot of confusion, that it actually leaves too much room for it to decide in a referendum way exactly everything, and creates a lot of confusion when it comes to interpretations of the decisions made. I am more concerned with the question of those parts of the proposal to amend the Constitution that speak about whether all the issues that may be decided at the referendum are appropriate, or whether they are also those that are not relevant to be decided by a referendum invitation or which are not productive in this way. The government says that, of course, it is appropriate to approach selectively. I think there's something about that. Foreign experience also suggests that certain issues should be limited. Where systems are arranged differently than we have with us, in short, when it comes to greater limitation, the weight of the referendums is greater. Thus, for example, two referendums have been held in Austria since 1945, on essential issues of the country, on issues of integration into the European Union or on the use of nuclear energy. While, for example, in Italy and Switzerland, where inflation is actually a referendum initiative and reflection, there are sometimes questions at the frontier of logic. Let's say that the Members should have their salaries raised or not, if I quote the case of Switzerland. With us this, I will say, the breadth of the possibilities for referendum issues also shows that the growing participation in decision-making, as we have heard more and more today, and that the growing dissatisfaction is not only at costs, but that the growing discomfort arises on the issues that people honestly believe should be answered by politicians or legislators, because it is the people, such a delegate, who have chosen to do so. The dilemma, what is right and what is wrong, despite the general tendency to restrict ourselves, has come across different views in our debates, in order to limit democracy and the will of people in this way, and therefore to remain fully open to the use of the legislative and also the previous referendum. The proposed solutions were also understood by some as restrictions within the Constitutional Commission, despite the fact that the government came with solutions that did not essentially violate the referendum, let alone eliminate it as we have heard today. Is the restriction on the question of laws relating to the state budget, such as ratified international treaties, constitutional rights and emergency measures, indeed the restriction of democracy? Is it, as it was, when I quote a conversation on the committee itself and in the records, is this an attempt to concentrate power on the top of power? The next proposal of the coalition would also stop at a proposal that in some way raised additional questions, as it speaks of giving reasons in the constitution, when referendums should not be possible. Some felt that there were always some possibilities for arbitration when dealing with the question of what was, say, harmfully harmful as a result, or which could have serious remedial consequences if such cases were to be denied the possibility of a referendum question. It is interesting, however, that some countries give a tax ruling on cases where the referendum is inadmissible. And this is so precisely, significantly more accurate than the proposal with which coalition partners appeared. This is about civil servants' laws, if I give a few examples from abroad, about amnesty, about general pardon, it's also about citizenship allocation laws, proclamations and so on and so forth. Our constitution does not impose any restrictions. It is said that a referendum on issues dealt with by the law, which means, theoretically possible, would be entirely admissible if, for example, if an interesting, theoretical case were to be given, vegetarians were to unite, under the circumstances and also on the basis of the laws we have, the possibility that we would no longer eat meat products, so that, of course, they could become difficult to remedy in terms of economic and other economic factors. However, I certainly do not think that restricting the question of referendum does not mean limiting democracy. But it can even strengthen it, and in the sense that clear questions are asked or selective, credibility in them is so much greater. Because if a decision is taken at a referendum, it is less important for the majority, and, of course, the referendum vote simply does not take place. We know we've had 27% recently or 35 percent in the Infertility Treatment Act. A minority has highlighted such questions or answers to such questions. Moreover, the referendum decision is often dependent on public opinion and can also be manipulated. For example, the question of opening time has become a question of family status, and the issue of the treatment of infertility has eventually become a question of single women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Will you have a long discussion with your friend Diaca? You're giving her up, aren't you? We will see if any further discussion can be made by nine o'clock. Dr. Bayuk? You're also giving up your colleague Lavrichev? Comrade Jerovšek, colleague Rokavec would like a word today? Then we'll stop the debate here. At 9 p.m., we will proceed to the vote. By then, by 10 a.m. tomorrow, as we proceed with this agenda item, I am adjourning the debate. At 9 p.m., we will move to a vote on the first two items of the agenda, in accordance with the agreement. Thank you. At 9 p.m., we will begin the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u179	I invite my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to a large debate room where, when the meeting is resumed, I will start making a decision. As you know, in this case, it is the necessary two-thirds majority of Members present and Members present to reach a decision. May I have your attention in the hall? The National Assembly is continuing its work. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals for decisions that have been debated today and whose debate we have concluded. We have two agenda items. On the 1st item of the agenda, we will first decide on the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia (EPA 708 /II). This is a proposal from a group of Members with a first-signed colleague Maximilian Lavrinac. May I have your attention, please? Then I ask you to see if your voting devices are all right so that there is no objection during the vote. May I have your attention, please? I will read a proposal for a decision to be decided by the National Assembly: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of a group of Members with the first-signed Maximilian Lavrinc [[EPA 708]] of 5.2.1999 to initiate the procedure for amending Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted." Before taking a decision, I inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if two thirds of the Members present and Members present vote for it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. No decision is taken. 87 were present, 57 for and 29 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the assembly of the proposed decision to initiate the procedure for amending Article 143 of the Constitution has not been adopted and, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Rule 177 of the Rules of Procedure, the procedure for this proposal has been completed. This concludes the agenda item. We turn to item 2 of the agenda - to decide on a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law (EPA 702 /III). We move to a decision on the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30 July 2001 and 21.11.2002 (EPA 702/III) for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the assembly not to adopt this decision." Before voting, I would like to inform you that a decision will be adopted in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if two thirds of the Members present and Members present vote for it. We're voting. Please, I'm adjourning the vote. Vote explanation, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u180	I will vote for the procedure to begin. However, as there are obviously some questions, given that the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission is, I am sure that your interpretation was right that, if the proposal supports two thirds of the Members present, it will be adopted. So we do not vote on the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. I'll support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-17-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u181	Once again, there will be no misunderstandings. I'm explaining! The Constitutional Commission has decided by vote not to propose the adoption of this Decision to the assembly. We are voting on the decision. If two-thirds of more Members and Members present vote for it, the decision will be adopted and the Constitutional Commission will be ordered to adopt positions and draft legislation, which we will then discuss again. There is another explanation necessary for us to decide. Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] I will read again the decision on which we will vote: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30. Seven. 2001 and 21. 11. 2002 - EPA 702 /III to initiate the procedure for the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." The decision will be taken if two thirds or more of the Members present vote for it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 87 present, 63 for and 21 against. Who's in? [[63 members.]] Who's against it? [[21 members.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. This opens the procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution. The Commission has not yet drawn up this proposal for a change of opinion, and we will also draw up such a position on the Constitutional Commission as soon as possible and will also be informed of it with the draft constitutional law. With this decision, I conclude this item on the agenda and for today the work of the National Assembly. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the end of agenda item 3. He will be the first to receive the word of his colleague Jerovšek and his colleague Rokavec after him tomorrow. Thank you very much by tomorrow. Good night to all of you.
