ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, wish you a good morning and a good day! We begin the continuation of the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Janez Janša, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Franz Kangler, Ivan Kebrič, Maximiljan Lavrinc, Aloise Peterle, Maria Possonec, Majda Širca until 1300 hours, Josef Školč, Matjaž Švagan and Marija Ana Tisovic. Allow only the following notice. We will move on to the third item of the agenda, this is the urgent procedure for the consideration of the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005. We will have a general hearing, and before we go to a second reading of the bill, we will vote on the harmonisation amendments to the draft amending budget for 2004 and to the supplementary draft budget for 2005 and then move on to a second reading of the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So we're going to go to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2004 and 2005, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. First of all, I would like to invite a representative of the Government to explain the bill further. That's what the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance mags will give us. Helena Kamnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The Law on the implementation of the budget is the final document with which both budgets can come into force when the time comes. In fact, according to the content, the law is about the same as all other years. This time, it's the weight of this law at two points. The first point is the one that is supposed to eliminate potential risks in order not to realize that part of the budget that is linked to the European budget. The law therefore establishes different mechanisms and slightly more flexible treatment of budgetary resources intended to carry out tasks related to European common policies. It is simply that, at this point, the allocation of European funds at least in the part relating to the Structural Funds is more indicative than actual. Because the projects to be implemented from the Structural Funds will have to obtain prior agreement within the European Commission and only on this basis will they be able to be implemented. As a result, there is a possibility that some projects at individual ministries will be confirmed later than others, and therefore it is possible in the law on the implementation of the budget that these funds can be transferred from one ministry to another depending on how the work on individual projects will take place with regard to dynamics. The second part, which is important in this law on the implementation of the budget and is also somehow this year's novelty, removes the risks associated with the different implementation of macroeconomic forecasts, which depend not only on the domestic environment but also on the international environment. As a result, the law empowers the government to reduce budgetary expenditure on those segments that do not relate to the European budget and which do not have a direct legal basis, in the event of a spring forecast prepared in early 2004, if the government indicates that movements will be worse than planned. In this way, we will prevent the budget deficit, which is already relatively high, as you yourself have found, from increasing further. These are the main points, I think that, despite the fact that it also solves some issues that might be referred to other laws, but given that it is linked to the implementation of the budget in a given year, it constitutes a good enough basis for us to implement both budgets, so I suggest that you accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present this to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear government officials! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! That bill was discussed by the Committee in a debate of more than six hours, which in itself indicates two things. That it is a very sensitive law and that, on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, the government also wants to bring to it things that do not belong to it. It was therefore necessary to supplement or amend a number of articles in such a way as to correct only the basic text of the law. I would particularly like to address some of the very important issues on which the Committee has drawn up amendments or additions, and thereby essentially correct the individual articles contained in the basic text of the law. In particular, the Committee adopted the amendments to the following Articles: Articles 2, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16, 21, 26, 28, 30, 39, for the new 40a, Article 44, 50, 53, for the new 53a, Article 54a, Article 55 and Article 56, as shown in the report which I hope you have already received. He has also drafted amendments or adopted amendments to some of his fellow Members or proposals at the initiative of the proposer of the proposal on 6, 8, 21 for a new 40a and for the articles I have previously listed. He then accepted the amendment or proposal of Mr Andre Bajuk for a new paragraph of Article 21 and for the deletion of Article 53 of the legislative proposal. On the basis of the comments submitted, the Committee has also drawn up or adopted amendments to Articles 2, 9, 10, 11, 16, 26, 28, 30 and 56 of the legislative proposal and the initiative for amendments to Articles 8 and 39 of the Committee, which were forwarded at the meeting by colleague Villa Trofenik. Among the proposals tabled at the meeting of the Committee, the Committee did not support the initiatives to delete Articles 28 and 52 and to introduce Article 54b. In order to introduce a new Article 39a and to amend Articles 7 and 11 on the proposal of the proposer of the proposal. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I propose that, on the basis of what I have said, after a really high-quality debate, you, in the opinion of the Committee, support the very well corrected basic text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Sašo Peče will present to us the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! I am sorry that I cannot come to this booth and say that the act that we are considering today is the product of a quality and sober work. In the national party, we are confident exactly the opposite, as the Government's representative and the representative of the working body dealing with this matter have expressed their position. For a long time in the national party, we would like this national assembly and this country to meet with such an act as would allow for some kind of stable and transparent public finances, which, of course, would then be reflected in the increasing quality of life of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate, however, that the proposed act is essentially just the continuation of the farce that started yesterday, the farce of so-called public finances. Allow me to touch you in the introduction of the explanation, as stated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which in the objectives, principles and main solutions of this law mentions that this is not a system law and that this law does not regulate specific principles, but follows purely budgetary principles and budgetary items arising from the Public Finance Act. According to our assessment, the government's approach to the treatment of this material should of course be different, the principles should be contained, because otherwise, in order to follow the request or explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, today's act before us is purely a rule. And of course, because we cannot afford 3,000 billion in this country, as far as the 2004 and 2005 budgets are concerned, a sub-law or regulation in the domain of at least one ministry or possibly just a government is unacceptable. Below the objectives, principles and main solutions of the budget, the government under number 1 shows the issue or solutions related to EU flows. According to the Slovenian National Parties' assessment, of course, we need to look at bilateral relations with the EU. So what Slovenia gives in European integration, or the European budget, and what Slovenia gets from these titles, of course. And Slovenia’s obligations towards the European Union in their financial institution or the European Union’s institutions are fixed. We have stated in the budget and, on the other hand, the revenue from these institutions or from the European Union can be referred to as non-fixed and demonstrate the ability of the Slovenian State, on the one hand, to be divided into the Slovenian government, local communities and individual applicants or applications for carriers and represent non-fixed funds. In our case, the 2004 budget is 80 billion Slovenian tolars. According to our assessment, such a dictatorship, as defined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at Article 3899, creates a kind of illusion, an illusion about the surplus of funds we obtain from the EU and that Slovenia acquires more, as Slovenia does, and we forget exactly the quality of the various programmes and the ability to apply for such programmes or simply to draw on the ability to draw these funds. Until now, several times in our country, it has proved that we are not able to draw on the funds that are supposed to belong to the State of the Republic of Slovenia from that address or that address. But the reality is different and here I do not blame exclusively the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I think has even taken a step further in this area. I blame the system itself in our country, which, on the one hand, allows both local communities and individual political interests to move away from the resources that could be brought into our country by the European Union. Given that individual local communities want to obtain money from the common European policy for individual projects, of course, because European policy is focused on specific areas where it tries to help individual countries in one way or another - so far everything is nice and right, but it stops, unfortunately, in our country. In Maribor we wanted from this address [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] a time ago to acquire funds for the construction of a type of deposit that would have been carried out in accordance with European Union rules, but precisely because of such an act and the conduct of the supreme Slovenian policy and local authorities, the municipalities did not register, solely because of the individual interests of individual so-called municipal officials [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u7	Mr. Pache, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u8	If we have one of these [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u9	Mr. Pache, please, if you're finished, because you're already running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u10	Excuse me! The information on my available time was, of course, different. We will not support the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The law on the implementation of the budget is a particular feature of our legislation, which actually allows things to be done differently than we write down or adopt in our budget. The proposed solutions in this law, this year's version of Zipra for the years 2004 and 2005, give the highest possible opportunity for the government to create, are the right to create the size of the budget deficit through what is already stated in our draft budget, to assume the commitments that will have to be paid in the coming years and which are not explicitly expressed and, of course, for financial debt. This, respected colleagues and colleagues, is nothing new - the way it works for us, in Slovenia, is slightly different. Surely you have followed the debate in the European Parliament in recent days as this Parliament is fighting the Commission to keep its rights as a legislative authority right above the budget. But with us in Slovenia, we adopt a budget, and then we adopt a law that opens up all options for the arbitrary decision of the executive branch. On behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not only happening in this law, but in many others. And we always point out that the National Assembly in its current composition is accepting a simple and joyful measure of virtual termination of its duties and actually makes it possible for the executive authorities to exercise their will. I know that this speech is empty if I say domestically, as if you would throw beans in the wall, because there is no listening for this great coalition, but the time will come when they might analyze in a few years when it happened that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia became just some body meeting, deciding very little and allowing the will of the executive power. This is the wrong approach, this is going to be bad for us. Believe what a different national assembly in future compositions will, I hope, try to re-establish this balance between the executive branch and parliament. As I said, this year's version of the law on the implementation of the budget is still the most extensive. We're actually going to allow a lot of things. Since we will have a broad debate on concrete amendments, I will not go into detail, but I will, because I will have this opportunity later. However, I would like to draw attention to two things or three that are of key importance in our assessment and that have not been accepted on the parent’s working body. This is mainly the so-called 26th Article, which is nothing more than a repetition of Article 21b, which was included in the current law on the implementation of the budget at a time when we adopted the budget rebalancing. And this is that we have now that this National Assembly, with the support of the Slovenian Coalition, has opened the door and found a solution to this, this great void that we have in our concession legislation. All over the world, where these things are now being dealt with, they find marriage solutions for these things. That's what we've been alerting you to when you accepted it in the great coalition and it's happening again today. I would like to tell you that this is clear evidence or a statement of what we keep reminding you of, and this is the gap between words and actions. The government is talking about private investment, how they are interested in foreign investment, but when it is necessary to create that minimum legal framework in order to make this happen, then do it in a way that is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u14	I'm sure I'll have a lot to say about this, because this is one of the biggest mistakes. And the second thing - and I conclude with this, thank you, Madam President - is how we are now going to proceed with a rapid tax debt management process. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Around the world, Parliament has this right and the duty to take decisions in this area, and this is the way we are going to do it, and I have never seen it anywhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Cyril Pucko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u16	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Representatives, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The law before us is the basis for the implementation of budgets over the next two years. That is why the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as amended by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, also supports it. It allows us to give the government a certain margin of manoeuvre in order to avoid the various wishes that will certainly occur in the next election year. At the same time, it provides an opportunity or a solution to issues, in particular by this work, which has been amended by the Committee in order to resolve those problems arising from the submission of the basic text of the law to the procedure. We therefore believe that we will also support the amended law and thus allow the Republic of Slovenia to operate normally in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Implementation of the 2004 and 2005 Budget actually shows the reality of public finances and, above all, the reality of life in our country. We know and realize that this is the basis for the implementation of budgets for 2004 as well as for 2005. However, we are assessing in the parliamentary group that solutions, as proposed, impose a great deal of responsibility before the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Responsibility is primarily about how the European Union funds will benefit from the various funds. Here we believe that the actual responsibility is even greater because we are going both in the electoral year and in the year of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Nevertheless, allow me to raise some very pressing open questions in this bill. In particular, the question of investment transfers to municipalities, the question of the systemic dispute between certain provisions that would be included in the sectoral laws - the dispute already addressed by the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee, Articles 11 and 15 where revenue from the sale of agricultural land and forests, the question of the scope of the guarantees for 2004 and 2005, the real representation of public debt, the problems of infrastructural buildings to be passed on to state ownership, the issue of the payment of tax debt and one of the key issues, the amount of the appropriate consumption of municipalities. It is a fact that all these years new and new obligations have been imposed on the municipalities and the State has not made it possible to implement them. Therefore, it is high time that, this year, at least marginally in this law on the implementation of the budget, the State devotes a minimum of compensation to the municipalities and in this way also aligns it with the new rules that have been given to the municipalities. Now it is also an issue of appropriate consumption in municipalities that are supposed to have indigenous Roma communities. In addition to this, allow me to touch on the issues of the capacity or willingness of the municipalities to assume the obligations imposed on them by the Construction Act. Most municipalities are currently not prepared and trained to implement this law. In addition, allow me to draw attention also to the issue of lowering or increasing the threshold of public procurement of low and high value, the problems of local communities in the rights to receive value added tax revenue in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will closely monitor the debate and decision-making on individual amendments. If they are to be decided in a direction that will allow for the resolution of these issues, we will support this law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Slovenian Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! I would like to present a few points of the main and key concerns of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this law on the implementation of the budget. Unfortunately, there is not enough time to analyze this law, because I think it was done by the committee, but it has not had enough time, and I believe that I could devote another day to it. I will not sing an old lecture that this law on the implementation of the budget gives too much power to the government to redistribute the resources adopted by the National Assembly. We have stressed this many times, and this is reflected in this law. However, I would like to point out some other points which are new and give the government the greatest opportunity so far, in particular to create the size of the deficit, to the financial indebtedness of the Slovenian State and to assume the commitments that will have to be paid in the coming years. This seems to me to be the key problems and innovations and, I would say, the specifics of this law to the implementation of the budget. What remains of the opposition is that, of course, the budget tries to redistribute some of the funds that the government has drawn up. Of course, such a law on the implementation of the budget gives the government and, of course, all government parties and Members the opportunity to buy candy in different territories later on with the various measures envisaged by this law, as the chairman of the committee has said, in the coming years. What is most critical, however, is that this law allows enormous commitment for the coming years. Today, we can practically draw up a 2006 budget, even for 2007 on the basis of commitments. This is extremely unacceptable to this extent. I know that they are multi-annual projects, but today we must not carry them out to such an extent that we can virtually concrete the budgets of the coming years. In this introductory part, however, I would like to give a few more words on the extent of the Slovenian State's 2004 and 2005 debt. Article 31 of the Law on the implementation of the budget provides that the Slovenian State may owe up to 293 billion Slovenian dollars in 2004 and, of course, this debt repays part of the debt from previous years, but in particular the third paragraph is critical, which does not count as being the extent of the country's indebtedness. The following things: debt under the law on the provision of funds for the realisation of TRPs, basic development programmes, State indebtedness for debt management and debt collection. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law, the Slovenian State has given itself a mandate and the government in particular to be in charge of taking up the debt. What debt? Tax debt, all the debt. In short, we can take on the shoulders of taxpayers something that someone has created, for example, railways and other businesses, and of course we take on it into public debt beyond the height set by this law, the amount of 293 billion for 2004 and 422 billion for 2005. I think that this possibility and this power to the government is very dangerous for the future of Slovenia, not least beyond the principles of transparency of public finances and even a review of what we will have to do and what we have today in this public debt. I would stop because I still have half a minute of time, even in the case of Article 8 measures to balance the budget which gives the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to intervene linearly in budgetary users and to reduce their rights to 10 billion if, of course, it turns out from the forecast of economic growth that it will not be able to achieve all these revenues or that there will be a deficit. I think that this is an extremely illogical and improper measure to cut linearly everywhere a little bit, rather than when it is already clear which project and which programmes may be more difficult to implement in some financial year, in order, of course, to cut into these slightly more and in those which are priorities, slightly less. It's short for some linear cutting, which I think is unacceptable and bad. Of course, we will not support this law, but we will support the efforts to provide additional resources in the light of the new obligations imposed on the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Public Finance Act provides that the law on the implementation of the budget shall also be adopted at the time of each budget. It also sets out the way and conditions and the different specificities in the implementation of the budget in a particular financial year. Thus, the draft law on the implementation of the budget for 2004 and 2005 regulates the establishment of a specific part of the budget. It also lays down rules on the reallocation of spending rights and transfers unused spending rights over the years. It defines the assigned revenue and revenue of the budget in a given year, sets the maximum amount of the country's claim and so on. In short, it is in many ways a law that we have adopted at the time of the budget even in previous years, but we will also adopt in this law some specific features that have not been adopted in the past period and we would like to draw particular attention to them in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. The first important new solutions are linked to the currents associated with our integration into the European Union, since this year we are adopting the first European budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, for the first time, the law puts in place a system to ensure that Slovenian commitments to the European Union are met from the budget and, on the other hand, the way in which the European Union funds are made available into the budget for the implementation of the common European policy in Slovenia. In this context, European policies in the field of agriculture, structural and cohesion policy and internal policies relating both to agriculture, rural areas, regional policies, social funds, the Schengen border and so on. We must therefore train the country to draw on the European Union's dedicated resources, because our country's commitments to the European Union will be made from the budget as a fixed one, and only our quality instruments will depend on how much of the European Union's available resources we will be able to recover for the agreed projects. There are also solutions related to the different budgetary balancing mechanisms in which an attempt is made to regulate budgetary spending in a simpler way during the period of Slovenia's accession to the European Union, when some estimates of income resources are still questionable. This is a so-called fiscal stabiliser, which is envisaged as a possibility of additional indebtedness to be decided by the government in the event that the realised revenues are lower than planned. This, however, takes the responsibility of this assembly, but it seems to us that normal implementation of the budget in 2004 as a year of integration into the European Union is a necessary instrument. We also support the proposed measures of possible linear reduction of spending rights of 15 billion as a means of reducing the total amount of expenditure in the adopted budget for 2004 and, of course, in all individual direct users. The debates that have also opened up in this law and are based on the determination of the appropriate consumption per capita for the financing of local communities in 2004 and 2005 show that the great problem facing virtually all Slovene municipalities is how to finance the ever-new and new obligations imposed on municipalities by the State by the adoption of laws or regulations. The fact is that we will have to study very seriously how to provide more resources in the local community, so that we can ensure the normal development of both major urban centres and smaller rural communities. These discussions have shown us that many times they do not comply with the decisions adopted by this assembly and we do not provide local communities with additional resources for specific needs, as well as additional financial resources. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the municipalities for the indigenous Roma community. Despite some concerns in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we welcome the definition of Article 52, which provides employers with the possibility of freeing the payment of contributions in cases of employment of the more difficult unemployed, as it is the growth of employment that is one of the key engines of possible economic development and of increasing social cohesion that is one of the advantages of our accession to the European Union. In the Joint Social Democrats' Group, we will also support solutions that facilitate the completion of the annual plan for the sale of state movable property, as well as solutions that will enable the conversion of unpaid taxes, contributions and other compulsory claims into equity shares in capital companies. In our view, the proposed solution will allow those companies that meet the conditions for restructuring to also be able to convert claims into jobs, in particular in less developed areas. This seems to us to be an important instrument for securing the state's assets, with the possibility of future capital injections into individual companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since the professional services are intensively preparing the harmonisation amendments that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has addressed today, some ten hours ago it has also completed its work, and given that we owe, of course, the law on the implementation of the budget will be adopted in such a way that it will be in line with the two budgets already adopted, allow us, by the time we receive the harmonisation amendments to the 2004 draft amending budget and the 2005 supplementary draft budget, to suspend the meeting, which we will continue as soon as the harmonisation amendments on the podium are adopted, by moving on to the consideration and vote on the harmonisation amendments. This is what we must do before we continue to work on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia; before we adopt the law on budget implementation, we must adopt both budgets. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. I think we'll get the material on the bench in a very short time. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u24	I'm sorry, but I'm proceding that we could go to any of the other points that await us. This is a decree on the sale programme for the years 2004 and 2005. I think we could break this point if the government isn't able to function, this national assembly as it does, and we move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, thank you for your suggestion. Fifteen minutes from now, the amendments will be on the bench, and I don't think it's good for us to crush the dots like that. So, in fifteen minutes, we'll continue work; the harmonisation amendments will then be on the bench. Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u26	Madam Vice-President, why did you interrupt the meeting now? I will present the report, because now there is no need for mass. I'll tell you what the committee did, and you'll know everything and know everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u27	I know, Mr. Pucko, but we need to get the harmonisation amendments on the bench. I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u28	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! We continue our work, namely to continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, the consideration and vote on the amendment of the home working body, namely the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in order to harmonise the changes to the 2004 state budget. He wants to speak to a representative of the mother's working body. I invite the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Cyril Puck, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Since you have already received a report on the adoption of the harmonisation amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I would add that, in the opinion of the members of the Committee, the procedure at yesterday's meeting was not correct. In particular, because the National Assembly has already adopted development programmes and, in the event that individual amendments were later adopted or adopted, the development programmes are simply not in line with the budget that will be adopted if adopted. It's just a fact that the National Assembly is not supposed to go through in the future. You can nod me, that's just the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mrs. Secretary of State would like a word? No, no, no. Thank you very much. So you agree with the amendment, this is also reflected in a letter from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Would anyone like to go to the harmonisation amendment? Position of the New Slovenia Group. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank Mr President of the Committee for reminding this National Assembly of this particular nature of the procedure yesterday, because it was so invited to the Committee itself. Otherwise, I have to say our position that such a warning, never to happen again in the future, seems incomplete to us. In fact, this matter should be settled right now, not just waiting for the goodwill of the future. I also hope, Madam President and honourable colleagues, that we will thoroughly review our Rules of Procedure as regards the procedure for adopting the budget every year. In a way that we have restricted ourselves now, it is really pointless. I myself point out that the law on the implementation of the budget is much more important than the budget itself, just as things are developing in our country. Since we speak and debate hours and hours here, in this national assembly and in the working bodies, and then the law on the implementation of the budget comes into consideration, which actually erases most of these restrictions because it includes various executive powers so that it can do practically what it wants. However, such a law is adopted under our rules of procedure by means of an emergency procedure. It is said that there is no broader debate, only what has been amended, then we have a few minutes to Sheamandmir, that perhaps we can still open things up so that we can draw attention to certain things. I think we need to review our rules of procedure urgently. I know that the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission is now here, and I hope that he will also include this in the debate when we review our Rules of Procedure. The fact is that we have limited ourselves in such a way that we will further destroy the role of the National Assembly as legislative authorities in the key area, which should ensure that this executive authority actually works on the basis of decisions of the National Assembly. The fact that we are now adopting such a law on the implementation of the budget, so that all of this will be divorced and destroyed, is a great regret for our democracy. However, that we cannot discuss this law as if it should be because of its value, but it is so sad, and I hope that we will change that too. We will vote against this amendment, as we voted against the entire budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and moving on to Mr. Anderlich, please. [[...]] The position of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u33	No. Procedural proposal. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to take a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The emissary group may request a 15-minute recess. So, at the request of the LDS Club, I'm taking a break. We will continue the meeting at 11.30 a.m. when we move to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the changes to the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u35	Your Honor! Let's get back to work. According to the Rules of Procedure, the LDS Club requested a 15-minute recess. He wants to speak to a representative of the House of Representatives. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u36	In our view, there are conditions for us to continue to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise changes to the state budget, namely changes to the 2004 state budget. I'm asking for your attention because we're going to vote. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 40 votes against 12. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a decision on changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 as a whole. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Battelli, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will be particularly pleased to vote against this budget because it is totally contemptible to the position of the national communities. It was adopted in a way that allowed at least three quarters of this assembly to not even know what was going on. Following a procedure that was wrong and what I would say, all of this was based solely on the government's concerns to maintain certain relationships in large numbers Everything that governs real life in this country was completely secondary. In short, in my humble opinion, this budget is scandalous.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u39	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go, then, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Obviously, with the proposal of these budgets ahead of us, everyone is pleased, all of them, especially all those who have been invested in the state budget for years and are, of course, satisfied with this division or can even say extremely pleased. This means, among other things, that in the preparation of the State budget, the lobbies that support the government and the existing authority for adequate funds were the worst and most dangerous form of political corruption that the people simply have no idea about. From protesting against such a way of adopting the state budget, and from the failure of Members to influence the changes and the very role of the budget in the country, I will leave the House of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for not wanting to take part in such a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u42	On behalf of the Group of Members. The budget is not scandalous and I do not believe it makes sense to leave the Chamber at the time of the vote. The fact is that this budget is only the continuation of the public financial game which this national assembly under this government and the previous national assembly started years ago. When politics has said "I" to the so-called professions that we will supply all public finances exclusively from taxes in this country, that everything else is not important. And all these years you've agreed to this kind of budget game, and here you all have to admit. On the other hand, we are aware of and note, at least some in this Chamber, that there is not one instrument in this financial act, how to reduce the budget deficit, that is, the deficit, or any instrument, how to tackle inflation. The fact is that the underlying items are the same every year and that their change mechanism is solely the basis or based on two assumptions. The first is an increase in the cost of living and the second is an increase in wages in the year. Nothing else takes this budget into account, so on the expenditure side there is no criterion to promote competition, there is no criterion that not only encourages but makes projects realistic, projects that have synergies, no, none of these elements have this budget. But, unfortunately, and what is worse the sin of this government's public finances, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and those Members who accept this every year, is, of course, on the revenue side. As long as this country promotes tax revenues as we increase taxes year after year, introduce new taxes and are satisfied with the government's proposal that over 90% of all budget revenues are made up exclusively of taxes, we will not be able to talk so much about developmental orientation, nor about any other comparability that will lead us to a qualitatively so-called Europe, which this same government has promised us, not in this way to public finances. The Slovenian National Party and I, as the Member of the Slovenian National Party, draw attention to these errors every year or every three months when we meet with such public financial acts. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, does not accept them, does not take them for granted, but, worse still, ignores them. In order to at least receive the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the possibility of considering reducing tax revenues, to the possibility of considering reducing inflationary burdens, to the possibility of considering reducing deficits, no, all of this seems to you to be self-evident and later on more, the summit of all is a Member who has not gone through his amendment in a millionth of this budget, insulted. This budget represents a global crisis of public finances in our country. There is no error in the individual items, the error is in the budget mode, so we will not accept the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u44	I will support the budget proposal. I will support it because it represents a sufficiently good compromise between what is possible under the circumstances. I will also support it because it is fueled by tax revenues, because I do not understand how a real state budget should be created if it is not supposed to be fueled by tax revenues. However, of course, I think that this budget indicates a number of issues that have not yet been fully resolved, which is realistic at a given stage of development. This draft budget is therefore to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Kacin, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would also like to support and support the adoption of this budget for a number of reasons, especially in the hope that none of the budgetary users, if any of them are already talking about the scandalous nature of this budget, would have refused to draw on the budget lines with disgust. Because if we didn't draw on the budget lines, it would force us to rebalance the budget. I, of course, do not want to do that, so I would like to vote once and for all in favour of this budget, even in the desire that all those for whom this scandal is will sleep in peace and be able to take advantage of the revenues from this budget in the years ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna say the budget is scandalous because I don't think it is. However, it is essentially a recurring story of the approach of past years and of this government, and I think that this is unfortunately no longer appropriate in the challenges of the European community. It is no longer appropriate because it repeats the story of the ever-increasing fixed part of the budget and, of course, makes it impossible to follow with that moving part of the budget the challenges offered by our membership in the European Community and, of course, does not allow our gross domestic product to rise to such a level that we can follow and also achieve the level of development of the other members of the European Community. I am sure that, of course, if we measure gross domestic product as a percentage, this does not mean that we are comparable to the European community, because the percentage of GDP in the European Community is absolutely different than the percentage of GDP in us. And of course, comparing percentage rates doesn't mean we're following and we're coming up developed. The government in the 2004 budget, as well as in the 2005 budget, has not been able to make more serious structural changes to the budget, which would lead to our economy following greater technological development, increasing competitiveness. In short, our economy could also go in the direction of raising gross domestic product and gaining developmental differences. We follow an old pattern that survives. The government is not able to offer a new one, and for these reasons I will not support the 2004 budget, nor for 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Pece. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u50	I take the position of the National Party Group solely for one reason because I want Members and Members to be aware of the importance of the budget, the most important act in this country. I am particularly impressed by the perception of some individuals in this National Assembly on the budget. Yes, the end of the debate, after three years of full mandate, there are still some who think that there is only one budgetary source of revenue, and this is a tax source. Look, this is where the underlying error comes in. Tax revenues are not the only source of revenue for the budget. There are many: tax revenues, tax revenues, capital revenues, received donations, transfer revenues, received funds from the European Union. Each of these is divided into thousands of items. Therefore, it is wrong to talk about the fact that in Slovenia we know only the tax revenue option. However, I believe that the basis for the Members' decision to adopt this budget is the lack of knowledge of the budget. Because the fact is, of course, tax revenues support over 90%. And precisely because of this relationship, because every year we stress this ratio of 90 to 10 in order for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reduce this ratio to 80, 20, 70, 30, gradually, that is our purpose. Until this rule is taken into account by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the preparation of the budget, the Slovenian National Party cannot participate in the new and increased burdens of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As, unfortunately, most of the budget adoptions in previous years have been made this year or this year, it was even more pronounced that those few amendments were already, but only some amendments that went by the coalition or those Members who had little chance of creating and preparing the budget were taken into account. Of course, we have no other option on the part of the opposition than through the amendments. That is why there is nothing else you can do, but all were rejected in order, even though some were both substantive and very good. However, I would certainly like those items to be adopted by the Ministry of Finance, which is intended for the so-called financial settlement, which would keep Kacin on his own and would have the opportunity to accept a change in the budget, because these items are really gross, because the obligations of the municipalities under this formula are older, younger, of course, and no one here is saying how poor, how unemployed and so on. Thus, the burdens of individual congregations vary significantly, as do those who also have over 14 billion over the so-called appropriate consumption or as a percentage of over 50%. From this title, the budget is disgusting and, if adopted, Slovenia will go back.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pucko, then Mr. Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. The 2004 budget is prepared for the first time in accordance with the rules in force in the European Union. He's trying to follow the government's policies, income-generating, so-called, appropriate wage desindexation, inflation reduction policy, that's, approaching the Maastricht criteria. At the same time, with the proposed budget, we are beginning to change the structure of the budget, with a view to starting in this way also by changing the thinking of budgetary users. And we do not even expect the support of those whose lives are comfortable or lenient.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Gračner, an explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u56	Thank you. I would be very happy to support or support the 2004 budget because I believe that this budget is not gross, but it is European. We must be aware that we have also changed this budget mainly because, when we first adopted it, not all the negotiations with the European Union have been concluded and therefore not all the starting points have been given. We must stress that Slovenia faces new challenges in 2004, namely challenges in the European Union and NATO. And this will happen for the first time in Slovenian independence, which is why I am even more supportive of this budget. Of course, integration into the European Union will also entail some risks, but I believe that some measures have been taken to increase the flexibility of the economy and other measures to promote economic growth and reduce unemployment. In November 2003, the government, together with the bank, adopted an ERM 2 programme by the end of 2004, which also foresees the adoption of the euro in 2007. These are also the goals that our citizens strongly supported at this March's referendum. We know that we received tremendous support from the European Union in Slovenia at that time. However, if we follow the budget itself and its characteristics, then during our stay in this ERM 2 we can say that we will meet all these Maastricht criteria. These fiscal criteria or fiscal criteria are met in one way or another, and the criteria, such as low inflation and long-term low interest rates, are well covered in this budget, so I will support the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, the words "just a few minutes before midnight" will not change the fact that this 2004 budget is really just the continuation of one and the same story of confusion and incomplete reporting to the National Assembly. I regret that I now had to hear just these misleading words so that this budget could approach the Maastricht criteria. Dear Members and Members! This National Assembly has no idea where we are or not close to the Maastricht criteria, because the Slovenian government does not want to report this. He's reporting to Brussels, but not to this national council. We may find that out when we actually see what will come out of all of this. What we're doing today is just a continuation of one and the same story. Today, however, the representatives of the great coalition are saying that this is in line with the Maastricht criteria, but it is a sad image of the professional approach. You know well that this budget of ours is working on the domestic Slovenian criteria, that it has no connection, no connection with the so-called European criteria, which the government reports in Brussels, the Slovenian National Assembly, and Slovenia not yet. The time will come when this too will come. Thank you very much. We're voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 50 votes against 15. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the 2004 budget changes have been adopted. Before concluding this item on the agenda, please continue to vote on the following proposal for a decision, on the basis of Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Cyril Puck, Mr Ambassador Andrej Bajuk and Mr Willi Trophynik, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Committee's legislative services, on the basis of the decisions taken by the assembly, to prepare the final text of the amendments to the 2004 State budget." We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - to discuss and vote on the amendment of the home working body, this is the Committee on Finance and monetary policy to harmonise the proposal for the 2005 state budget. He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? Mr. Pucka, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The report shows what was decided by the Committee, and I believe that there is no need to supplement anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The government agrees with the harmonisation amendment. Does anyone wish to present the position of the Group towards the harmonisation amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and we can move on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 48 votes against 11. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Therefore, we can move to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 as a whole. We're voting. There are 64 of us present. It's 49 votes against 14. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 has been adopted. I'm asking you again to support this decision. On the basis of Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Cyril Puck, the Ambassador of Dr Andrej Bajuk and Mr Willi Trofenik to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legislative Service of the Assembly, the final text of the 2005 State Budget, based on the decisions taken by the Assembly. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. It's 52 votes against 5. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going to break three. Agenda item - Second defence of the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2004 and 2005, urgent procedure We will go to the debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. As part of the emergency phase, amendments can therefore be tabled, so you are on the bench, [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Just to finish my notice. [[...]] That's why you got the amendments that eligible applicants tabled on the bench. Procedural proposal, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Look, some of the amendments are already on the bench, so there's probably gonna be a few more. Under such conditions it is actually impossible to work. I expect that we will receive a consolidated review of the amendments to the law on the implementation of the budget prior to the decision of the Member and Members on the bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Mr. Rokavec, the services are preparing a review of the amendments. [[...]] There will be huge debates on individual articles and amendments. I'm sure the examination will be ready. The services are working very hard on this. I am also convinced that the individual article and the amendment that has been tabled to it will require a huge debate. So I really suggest that we open up because, for example, the amendment, even the three amendments, has already been tabled to Article 2, and at that time the amendment will be reviewed, which is not otherwise commanded in the Rules of Procedure, but we are all accustomed to it. That is why I strongly suggest that we proceed with our work. We ask the services to try to prepare a review of the amendments tabled as soon as possible, which will certainly help us in our decision-making. We'll decide in a row. Once we have finished the debate on an individual article and amendment, we will also decide on that. So I really suggest that we, in the hope of getting a review of the amendments on the bench as soon as possible, move to debates on articles and amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. Rokavec. I am opening the debate on Article 2 and on the three amendments to Article 2. Under 1 is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Under the 2 amendments of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2, under the 3 amendments of the three parliamentary groups, namely the LDS Club, the United List of Social Democrats and the DeSUS Group. I'm opening a debate on all three amendments. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u64	Your Honors are here! The purpose of the correction proposed by the Slovenian National Party is in two parts. Firstly, in the illustration of the senselessness or intransparency of the proposal sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and, of course, worse, for admission. Secondly, in the pursuit of a positive system that will allow for the smooth implementation of the budget previously adopted and the achievement or pursuit of the objectives. According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, in conjunction with Article 2 it would be better to approach new solutions to the ties to budgetary balance mechanisms. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sees in this part exclusively the main and only culprit for an unbalanced budget and each year the increase in this gap, i.e. imbalances in the uncertain world economy, which the government has clearly indicated on page 3900. With this emphasis that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared or capable of taking over that largest lion's share of the blame for unbalanced budgets in the past and unfortunately in the future. This is our own or governmental incompetence and willingness to move on to a new way of accounting or showing up an up-and-up budget systematisation. On the other hand, on the basis of the solutions relating to the coordination of transfers to individuals and households, it is important to stress that we are trying to approach the amendment under Article 2 to amend the existing budgeting system at that or that class where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia exclusively uses two so-called statistical mechanisms. First of all, rising prices of living needs and rising wages. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers these two mechanisms or criteria as the only required condition for entering the budget item or changing the value of this budget item, of course, even in the coming years, we cannot go to a better budget. According to our assessment, these statistical mechanisms, rising prices of living needs and rising wages would, of course, be. Mr. Chairman, may I ask you for peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u65	I kindly ask all my colleagues and colleagues that we follow the debate or that we do not disturb the debaters.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u66	I believe that Members of the ruling majority do not follow the discussions of the opposition Members, but I would like to say that they do not disturb. I also believe that the words so reasoned or otherwise reasoned cannot convince you of the opposite position. I would like to convince, and this is my purpose, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to approach a more correct budget next year. We therefore propose, through the addition of Article 2 to these so-called statistical mechanisms, focusing on programmes of capacity, realization and effectiveness. The government on the following side of the budget or the Rapporteur shall identify other new budget implementation solutions, where it will already alert us to the progress and chronological developments in relation to the 2004 and 2005 budget, where it indicates when and where the laws entitled: the Supplementation Act or the Amending Act will appear. With this kind of solution, as the government has pointed out in its explanation, let us say in the future that the budget is not a long-term budget, that all those segments in our society that are connected to it should be budgeted, and it is probably right to remind you that the budget is not dedicated to itself, but to the budget that is large, not only to the institutions, but also to the individuals in this country, so it would make sense to have this behavior, with which I have just enriched you, taken into thought. On the other hand, and on the other hand, the link between the amendment of the Slovenian National Party and the assessment of the financial implications of the proposal of the law is useful. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes, quote: "with their implementation, the tasks of the State will be able to be carried out within the next two years to the extent set out in the budget," I stress the part which is, of course, the most important at this time, but unfortunately it is inconceivable, that is the tasks of the State arising from the budgets. Unfortunately, the budget of the application also does not include the Slovenian national parties in order to define certain priorities for the budget. And mistakenly, in my opinion, it is moderately confusing to think of government representatives and government Members who say that there are tasks in the budget. They're gone. The budget shall be exclusively budgeted for individual tasks. Until we define the most important tasks in addition to carriers, the budget in this country will be nothing more than a statistical indicator of the budget deficit, where we will never know what the real items will be in the years to come, especially taking into account only the two criteria that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia achieves or deals with in writing such an act. However, as regards the other articles, in conjunction with the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, it is, of course, absolutely reasonable to stress the non-compliance or non-implementation of the implementation of this Act as long as the content of Article 1 defends the two-year system, namely 2004 and 2005 ZIPRA or the law on the implementation of the budget. Looking through financial estimates, we see that we are talking about over 3,000 billion or over 1,500 billion per year 2004 and 2005. We therefore estimate that it is precisely on the basis of the concerns of this government and, of course, of the National Assembly, and in my opinion, of the Republic of Slovenia, according to various visions for each year, it is, of course, pointless to pass a law on the implementation of the budget for two years. Not only because of the financial scope of these two acts, namely the 2004 and 2005 budget, but also because of the various challenges ahead. In conjunction with Article 3 below as the structure of the budget, it is our assessment that it would be in relation to the amendment and in breach of Article 6 of the bill which creates some apparent receipt of funds from the European Union. I spoke about this when presenting the views of the Group of Members, but unfortunately I was limited to five minutes, so I could not expose this kind of dilemma, which is misleading. The fact is that Slovenia will be the recipient of European funds if we have such people in position to ensure that these funds are obtained, which will be reported and made available to those 80 billion funds to be reserved for the Republic of Slovenia. And if the sky is left to individual interests, in my case from Maribor, the interests of the Liberal Democracy, which did not want to allow the financing of the Maribor dump, it is misleading. However, in conjunction with Article 6, I would like to point out that, according to my assessment, the biggest error of this ZIPRO is the following: for the first time, inflows of EU funds are considered as revenue of the budget only when they are transferred to the Tolar budget sub-account. According to our assessment, this item should come out because it represents - and you will admit, quietly or out loud - that it is indeed held that this is a silence for the non-use of programmes, a silence for those funds that Slovenia will not exhaust from the so-called European Union funds. If we do not have such a dictatorship on the other revenue side of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which would allow us not to have a greater deficit every year, we should also remain here on the principle that Slovenia should be drained entirely to the last euro or tolar what you want from those funds that Slovenia is intended for. With the proposal, however, in the text of the article, that inflows should be regarded as revenue only then, you are of course allowing Slovenia not to acquire all the funds and that it will be a non-receivable in the euro budget and that we will, of course, falsely place all those electoral promises from the period of entry into the EU. According to our assessment, Article 6, the first paragraph should find the city [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u67	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I must remind you that we are currently discussing the amendments to Article 2 and I ask that you stick to what is currently being put into the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u68	Mr. Chairman! I must inform you of the content of the amendment signed by the Slovenian National Party, which says that we wish to lay out the basis for the smooth implementation of the adopted budget. The European item,'received funds from the European Union in 2004', is 80 billion. If you feel that this is too little for a few minutes to pay attention to me, tell me directly, otherwise please don't interrupt me. But I promise you, in the interest of your desire to conclude the meeting later, I will not advertise. Furthermore, in conjunction with the amendment to Article 2, the general assumption is that Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 are of course totally unnecessary in order for the question of reallocation to be categorised in the Public Finance Act and not in the form of a blurring of an act which is, of course, ahead of us. In connection with the establishment of the basis for the implementation of the adopted budget in accordance with the adopted objectives, it should also be harder to follow the amendment of Article 30, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia speaks about the write-off of the claims of the Republic of Slovenia under the Public Finance Act. The amount of hundreds of millions in the second line of the three lines mentioned above should, according to our assessment, be precisely for the sake of transparency and transparency and the facilitating the implementation of the budget, subject to the agreement of the national assembly. Thus, one authority would know what another authority is doing in this national assembly. This would follow the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. In the largest category, according to our assessment of the category that will prevent the implementation or full implementation of the adopted budget, the extent of the debt for 2004 and 2005, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia clearly indicates the implementation of the two new terms of indebtedness, that is gross and net indebtedness. Gross debt or debt, as planned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the law on the implementation of the budget, i.e. ZIPRO, is almost 300 billion Slovenian tolars for 2004 and 422.8 billion Slovenian tolars for 2005. So total indebtedness in these two budget acts, the area of public finances for over 720 billion Slovenian tolars. But -- I'm sorry -- it's just a net debt. Gross indebtedness follows from points 1 to 6 where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that the debt referred to in the preceding paragraph does not include a debt of six other titles. And let anyone else in this room say that the act before us is transparency. That's not true. The act before us shows certain segments, while the others deliberately conceal the marriage. And this national council accepts it. When we had the opportunity to talk in this National Assembly about debt, about debt through securities, let the bonds of the state, whose fashion scream became in 1995, when this country continued issuing new bonds each month, this National Assembly refused to speak. Therefore, I think it makes sense that we need to speak at a time when this is a possibility. And because this national assembly did not allow for discussion on the debt proposal of the Slovenian National Party, we are taking advantage of it today. But only one purpose. And the purpose is not what you think Members of the Liberal Democracy or the United List, that is, in criticising. No, no, no. The aim is to establish a system of public finances that will survive and lead us forward. In the National Party, of course, we are aware that the adoption of the amendment itself to Article 2 of the updated draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005 will not lead to the effects we want in the National Party. This is, of course, clear to all of us, the fact is that both the explanation and the content of the individual articles of this law are aimed at non-transparentness. However, I sincerely hope that in the coming years, when we talk about the law on the implementation of the budget, we will adopt a different approach. For the first time, every year the accession, the approach to transparency and the approach of this country's commitment, the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia, to exhaust the European Union to the last euro. In the National Party of the Act itself, i.e. the law on the implementation of the budget, we do not intend to support it because we believe that this is a bad journey. A poor traveller especially in those moments when Slovenia enters the European Union. And, of course, worse, a poor journey that will prove to be in a less quality life, both in the short, medium and long term of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially with the projected level of indebtedness, and in the absence of so-called anti-inflation programmes, which, in my opinion, should also be detected in this act and, of course, programmes that would naturally reduce the budget deficit. We will not support the National Party of the Act itself. The amendment, which at least little suggests a more serious approach by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to such acts in the coming years, will be. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u69	We continue to discuss the amendments to Article 2. Blaž Kavčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u70	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendments to Article 2, I would suggest to the Slovenian National Party's Group that they consider withdrawing this amendment and consider how to put it. As proposed, it represents a tautology, an uproaring expression. However, the consideration that would be necessary is whether or not they propose that the law on the implementation of the budget constitute a basis or a basis. It's probably a little harder for both of us. It may also be difficult for them to reflect on how, logically, this thought they wanted to express, given that I understand that they are ignoring tax revenues as about 95% of the source of the state budget. Thinking, of course, can be in a certain direction nice to play with words, but it leads in the direction of thinking about "send taxes, increase transfers". However, in real life it is not possible to make this happen in this way. I would suggest that, in terms of respect for the Slovenian language, this amendment should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u71	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to talk about the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Is that possible now, or are we already at this point? This is amendment number two.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u73	We're at the amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u74	Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Those colleagues who have not followed or have not followed the debate are referred to Article 2 of the Budget Implementation Act, paragraph 19 of the second paragraph. The second paragraph includes definitions of what concepts are used in this law. The 19th point points to what public infrastructure is and is strongly linked to Article 26, to which we have also tabled an amendment and propose to delete it. I'm going to talk about this amendment, and of course I'm going to talk about 26. I cannot propose the deletion of Article 40 because, according to our strange rules, it is so-called closed, it is said to be cemented, but if this is accepted, then it will have to be harmonised and deleted. Why is he actually going here? Look, I'm sure you've heard me talk about the gap between words and actions. And that's already become some kind of phrase. But I'd like to tell you nicely, on a particular occasion, what I mean when I talk about the gap between words and actions. The Great Coalition, our Prime Minister speaks, whenever he can, about the government's decision and how we are open to private initiative, how we want investment, especially foreign investors. Foreign investment is only possible in an atmosphere where public rules are a game and where it does not work with figs in your pocket, if I may say so at home. I will give you a concrete example, which will then give you perhaps a better understanding of our position on this. You must remember, a year ago, the government decided to partially privatize the Maribor airport. There was an invitation to tender and I was informed that I had been visited by a representative of a British company with his ambassador and he stated that he was interested that his company would actually invest in the Maribor airport. Let me warn you that the Maribor airport has already privatized a lot of things, not the route where the planes actually land. Their interest was great. It is one company, maybe ten years old, it is developing in the European field and it would be very interesting if it did. However, they expressed their doubts if they could present their proposal because they could not get a clear position from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as to the cost of using this route so that their planes could land. They had talks with the government, with the Ministry of Transport, and of course it never happened. So they didn't introduce themselves. You know the story of how it went on. There was an auction, there was a Slovenian citizen who had one purse promising to buy, and then after 30 days it turned out that the purse was empty. Finally, this was privatised and the buyer was a Slovenian entrepreneur. Ladies and gentlemen, the ambiguity of the rules of the game makes it impossible for serious players to actually participate. And that is the key issue of Article 26 and this Article 2 of this story that I would like to talk to you about today. The systematic and planned ambiguity of the rules of the game prevents all of this from actually being realized. It turns out that the words of the Prime Minister and the whole government are completely barren and empty because they speak one another. Now, we are going to a concrete example of Article 26 and Article 2, where I propose that point 19 be deleted. Why would I suggest that it be deleted? Because it is in some way an extension of what this state council has already adopted against the will of the opposition, and this is to try to resolve in such an inappropriate way in the law on the implementation of the budget of systemic issues. Why am I talking about systemic issues? Ladies and gentlemen, we need a concession law where the rules of the game will be clearly defined. Just like they're here, it's nothing! Who can believe that? Certainly not some serious actor who will want to cooperate and invest as a private in our infrastructure. Only on the basis of clear rules of the game. And what is the ambiguity of our rules of play? Yeah, there's a lot of confusion. I already mentioned this matter when we discussed it, and I think that may be the month of the budget's rebalancing. We have heard the Ministry of Finance's burning words again, how necessary it is to open up the possibility for foreign investors and for domestic investors as well. The rules were unclear. How, though, does the ruling coalition resolve the confusion in this national assembly? Yes, by saying that the Minister of Finance should also write specific instructions. Well, you need to know that since the National Assembly this decree has been adopted, the Ministry of Finance has not yet written this instruction. So it's just saying again that it's going to look good, that we're interested in private investment, and we're not actually taking the wrong step to make it happen. And why don't we have a system law? When I reopened this question on the Finance Committee, the government gave me the answer, "I haven't had time yet." That's interesting. Do you know why it's interesting? It is true that, as Mrs State Secretary has told me, the Ministry of Finance has personally sent me a proposal on which they are working. This happened once in September of the month, if I'm not mistaken. The fact is that I discovered, in an article published in - what is it called? - is called Legal Practice [[It's an expert magazine of lawyers.]] , number 40, published on 13.11, says one month ago. And there this expert who writes about this matter - the title of the article is "Private Investments in Public Infrastructure" - is Alexei Možina, and writes that this proposal has existed since 2001. There is already a proposal from 2001 but there is not yet a national assembly. What do we got? We've got speeches, talk and wild suggestions. What's the problem? I would invite all those who have already decided mentally to vote against any opposition proposal today to read this article before you vote. I'm not a lawyer myself, but maybe there's a lot of things going on here, because you have to be a legal expert here. It is a fact that this section tells us about the complete and incomprehensible nature of this decision. They are talking about a decision that has already been adopted and is now in the existing law as Article 21b and, I think, Article 29. This is in the current ZIPR. However, because what we are currently considering is the same text, minor changes, its assessments also apply. In fact, we are interfering with public procurement by now correcting something that has to follow meaningfully, now no longer making sense that article 133 of the Public Procurement Act should follow. Of course, respected colleagues, colleagues, the law on public procurement will still be discussed. It is said that we will do something again, regardless of whether, hopefully, we will have a slightly more serious proposal at our future regular meeting of the National Assembly. And this expert also proves that the proposal we have, which repeats for two years what you have already accepted, forgive me, forgive me, we have not really voted against the whole soul, that this is also in violation of European rules. Of course, this does not bother anyone that they do not comply with European rules, is not in accordance with our legal order and, ladies and gentlemen, is not in line with common sense. These things don't work out that way. At the very least, to be regulated as you have already accepted, and you will now again, it seems that you will accept that these things are being resolved through some instructions from the Minister of Finance. This also proves, from an expert point of view, that this is unacceptable because it is administrative matter, which can only be resolved through law and not through sub-legislative acts. I wonder why we're doing this. Why does the Slovenian government not want to regulate this systemically? And I can't shake my judgment that it's not just because it wants to make sure that it can represent itself before the world, how open we are, how ready and market-oriented we are. In fact, we are working so that nothing will happen to me. And that's that gap between the words and the actions I'm talking about. I propose that we delete Article 19(2), I propose that we delete Article 26, regardless of what I have heard in the Committee on Finance. As you know, there are a lot of fellow mayors among us who have some special power. This is that they may understand local problems better than those that do not work at local level. I was very moved about their claims: "We have to arrange for this door to open, let's give enough to get private capital so that we can start solving these things." My dear fellows, I'd love to see that happen, but you're knocking on the wrong door. Knock on the door of the Slovenian government, which for two years has not wanted such a law actually to be dealt with in this National Assembly. It does not advocate systemic solutions, it advocates permanent or further impossibility. Just like that case I started with. Why are we privatizing? Yeah, that sounds good, and then we make these rules of the game just to make sure that some friends are well connected to certain things. Then I also have professional questions for the Minister of Finance, who unfortunately is not here. I would like to ask him if we will be included in those instructions that have not yet been written and which are now again foreseen by this law, whether we will include any decision to allow profit? Do you know why I'm asking you this? If someone might want to follow this question of how this is happening elsewhere in the world, it is a very good case of Great Britain when they did a lot of things under the rule of Mrs Maggie Thatcher. Today, however, they have great problems as a result of this and are struggling to gain access to one system law. With us, the system law is not, but the only system in force is impreciseness and creating the conditions for only certain friends to come to what should be open to all who want to share and risk our development group. I propose that you support this amendment, that we delete Article 2, paragraph 19, and, of course, Article 26 of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u75	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 2? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u76	I'm sorry, but do I really have to ask you, are you deliberately overlooking or is it entirely a mistake? Because it seems to me that we are holding a raised hand, at least the Members of the Slovenian National Party, are two in front, and could only look at us sometimes if we have something to say. The main purpose of my advertising is in response to Mr Kavčič. I believe or I know we have different views. You're being subjected to excessive capital pressure, but I may be a little bit more unburdened than you are with that. And the National Party's desire for tax revenue is only one: that the whole public administration in this country should not live on taxes from people, citizens and citizens, and that the relationship should change. That our citizens should not be burdened every year with new taxes so that they can be taxed, because, you know, also playing - and I will use your jargon because you may think it is a little bit cute, but nothing more than cute - tax policy or fiscal policy can also be a very good instrument for the development of the country, in the form of acceleration or in the form of inhibition. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately, has used, on the basis of these rates, the relationship between tax and non-tax revenues, the instrument that inhibits economic development. And if it is in the interest of you or the Liberal Democracy, of course it is your right. But this is not the desire and desire of the Slovenian National Party. Therefore, our desire has always been to approach lower tax revenues. I would also ask you not to make fun of tax matters when you speak so vehemently. No one said we'd cut the taxes, no one suggested that taxes be abolished, because that's absurd! That's probably what you're getting at. But it makes sense to encourage the economy through a different tax policy. And one of these measures is in smaller tax burdens. As you know - I hope you know - the tax burdens on the other hand are reflected in the budget charging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u77	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Cyril Pucko first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the broad explanation of the amendment to Article 2 proposed by the Slovenian National Party. Although I do not know what a great knowledgeer of the Slovenian language is, under the text of the amendment such as this, I would not have signed. Because I'd still be a little embarrassed. Because I couldn't explain what I was going to say with such an amendment. So much for a start. As far as the priority of the Slovenian National Party is concerned, you will certainly put these at great length after the upcoming elections and seek support for them to receive adequate support in the government documents of the future coalition. I am sure that you will succeed and that the Slovenian public will follow your priorities, especially because I doubt that those whom our government presented at the beginning of the mandate and through budgets, including those who were adopted today, have tried to implement. I am also convinced that your willingness to pursue the tax reform that you have discussed so much is such that, as soon as individual laws are put into the procedure, you will show great interest and support them at the beginning of next year. This way you will show that your client's priorities can also be the priorities of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u79	Thank you. Ms Helena Kamnar, State Secretary, has the floor. Replica colleague Kavčič. I'm giving you a chance to replicate my colleague Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u80	Thank you very much. While I am basically pleased that Mr Pece, in an attempt to explain or teach, has taken a step forward in the precision of expression. If I presented my position this way, at least in the part that concerns the basic architecture of the budget, it might be easier to understand. Because what he has now said is that we would like to change the structure of financial revenues to benefit from the non-tax revenue, of course it is possible to agree. And we'll all be happy if we make it one step at a time. On the other hand, these comments relating to me reflect some ease of residence, ease of speech and the absence of reflection, which may even logically be for a member of the Slovenian National Party, the absence of responsibility for the adoption and realization of a budget which is a document which unfortunately must be a solution to many of the unloving problems the Government is dealing with. The government has this, and coalition Members to a large extent with it, not because they would be under some pressure of capital or whatever, but because we are under pressure to face the real problems of the economy, so we must also take solutions that deviate from certain ideals of structure, resources, that is, tax revenues. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u81	Thank you. He's a friend of mine, and then he's a secretary of state.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u82	May I have the first part of Mr. Kavčič? Look, we have already achieved one of the objectives set out in the Slovenian National Party through this debate. Even you have spoken about the need to consider reducing tax resources at the expense of non-taxable people. This is the first time this has happened. Maybe we'll attract someone else, besides you, so he can at least start thinking this way. And the second part to Mr. Puck. You know who's signing up for something, you'd better keep it to yourself. I'd like to tell you that the doubts you've raised are yours. And I really have no intention of arguing with your doubts. I'd rather leave that to you. You'll have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u83	Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I'd like to pick up two things. First, to the amendment of Mr. Pechet. So this amendment is absolutely not necessary because the role of the law on the implementation of the budget is clearly defined in the Public Finance Act. With regard to the structure of budgetary revenue. If we want the country to withdraw from the private sector, then there is a clear consequence that it is becoming increasingly important tax sources in the supply of the budget. Indeed, the withdrawal of the State from the private sector and the increase of non-taxable resources are not compatible. Especially if you look at what recent sources are. As far as Mr. Bajuk's amendment is concerned. The ambitions of these articles in the law on the implementation of the budget are not regulated by the whole area of concessions. At least the ambitions of these articles are to regulate private investment in the construction of public infrastructure by force. Whether the construction of public infrastructure, except for motorways, public service or not, may be subject to legal controversy, but only the construction of motorway infrastructure is defined as a public service in the legislation in force. So this is about settling an issue that has not been settled, and it has taken place disorderly, which has not been banned either. Which means the construction by private means of facilities that serve as public infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u85	Thank you. And once again, Sasha Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u86	Madam Secretary of State, it is only for you to think. I can't agree with you. But, see also - Mr Bajuk's amendment, which talks about concessions, points to a lack of Slovenian concession legislation. Revenue from concessions may be among the non-taxable sources. So already through this source of acquisition by participation or ownership over the concession would change the structure. So just saying that it's impossible won't hold. However, I believe that this is a strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u87	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank the Secretary of State for its implementation. However, I would like to point out that, of course, I agree, because I cannot agree with what she said could not be a system regime. That's the problem. But I cannot agree with you, madame, when you say, it is for the force that we will handle this forcefully. Not even for force. Because we have two questions from an expert legal point of view that have not been answered. And I am surprised that this is also not answered by our legislative service and I would now ask it to do so, whether or not this decision is inconsistent with the European directives and, secondly, whether or not it is inconsistent with our legal system. Since the award of the concession is an administrative act, it is unacceptable to allow this matter to be regulated in a sub-legislative act. We are reminded of this by various experts who tell us that the Constitutional Court, our Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia have already ruled on similar issues. So if this law is to be adopted as proposed, I will in fact have to initiate proceedings before our Constitutional Court. Well, that's not enough for force, either. This is an unacceptable solution to the real problem. I note, however, that there was no objection, no response to my assessment that the government is actually talking about its willingness and commitment to increase private investment, either domestically or abroad, in this area, and that it is actually doing everything in order not to do so. Because that's the key problem. And if you'd listened, you might have just convinced them, but that's right, Mr. Vice President. Sometimes that's the way we talk in the open. But I'll tell you, Mr. Vice President, if you listen to me, that's exactly the point. The problem is, we insist and we want to make it legal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u89	I'm asking you here on the right to silence your debate separately.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u90	All the time fog, all the time fog. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. Aloys Sok has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I would not go into the content itself, but when I listen to this, I would like Mr Puck - if he does not leave the hall now - so I can see that he is leaving, perhaps his colleagues will pass it on to him. However, I would like to ask him, because we are going to vote on these amendments and he will have to define himself to what is, as a matter of fact, so profoundly wrong in the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Otherwise, he said that he was not a great acquaintance of the Slovenian vocabulary, but would still ask him if he could answer what he thought was so controversial. Perhaps I would like to point out that the third amendment is verbally much better formulated than the first one - and this was signed by Mr. Pucko, because it was also made on behalf of the LDS - says that in the second paragraph a new 23 point is added, which reads: "Great initial foreign investments are foreign investments..." If you can explain this to me. So it sounds very unverbal to me, written in this way: "the large initial foreign investment". Thank you very much. Maybe I'll get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u93	Thank you. My friend Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sok, I will be very happy to respond to how I would shape this amendment myself. I would write, say, this: In Article 2, a new first paragraph is added [[Double, call it down.]] : "Take 1. Article!" [[Call me, call me up.]] . This would give the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group the opportunity to discuss the content of Article 2 if they could not already write a substantive amendment to this Article. That's it. Now, what you're talking about is how the amendment is supposed to be, a new 23rd point. This point follows what the first sentence of the second paragraph says: "The individual concepts used in this law have the following meaning:" [[Double-deck]] . And then point 23: "large initial foreign investments are foreign investments as defined by specific rules." This follows what has been adopted in one of the following articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u95	First of all, my friend Willy Trophynik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u96	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u97	Do I have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u98	Here you go, because Willy Trophynik is giving you up so you can discuss it first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u99	I would now like to mention this very proposal of the Liberal Democracy, this additional point 23. Colleagues who were on the Finance Committee will understand that this is what the government is trying to solve, because it was not clear, not then, but now even less, what are the big investments. Because some things and some special conditions are allowed for large investments, we will also come to this article, which, according to our assessment, is totally unacceptable. But the point was that the translation of the word "greenfield" or the initial investment, at least that's how I would translate, but I'm not an expert either. Now, how does that work out? Well, that's interesting again. How to get rid of the confusion - by saying that another rule will come. Then we, like Pontius Pilate, wash our hands, everything is beautiful, smoldering. Someone else is going to tell us, someone else is going to tell us - I hope that there's a government in which there's going to be an aliphasis, but it's going to explain - what this big investment is. So someone else and not the National Assembly will decide who gets the subsidies, under what conditions. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, but we're the National Assembly! The Legislative Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. We cannot get rid of our responsibility in such a way that we find some fine linguistic implementation for a decision that is essentially undemocratic. Yes, how are we going to agree that the executive branch will now speak in a special decree, which will receive subsidies? Are we really so far away that we do not realize that if someone is exempt from tax or is given some special attention by the government and resources, because people trust us that this must be based on clear rules and that there must be some kind of control. How can we control it? See how you propose to solve this problem - one special instruction will solve this. Yes, because we have debated this for a long time in the working body because it was not clear. And of course, how this ambiguity is corrected - yes, let the executive write it, it will. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote against this proposal of the Liberal Democracy. They were wrong again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u100	Thank you. Willy Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u101	Thank you. I want to replicate my colleague, Mr. Puck. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u102	It didn't name you, so it's not a replica, but you can discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u103	I want to correct his incorrect allegations. In fact, this is an amendment, which my Group, unfortunately, has signed and whose explanation for Article 2 is as innovative as yesterday's one amendment on interest. On the Finance Board, the government couldn't tell us what these were big initial foreign investments. Under this amendment, the authors of the amendment wrote that the amendment follows the opinion of the legislative and legal service, and they forgot that we have this opinion on the table and that this claim, of course, or that the amendment is still far from reaching the comments of the legislative and legal service. If we were not to take this the wrong way, I would be very happy if you had systematic instruments to attract foreign investors, but we do not have them. In this particular case, it is a well-known one and one foreign investor that we are trying to write some instruments on the skin. Other foreign owners who are already working with us or who want to invest are asking what is discrimination because it is literally discrimination. Please don't work or make fun, my contribution is not directed at a specific investor, but let's finally make it possible to have systemic attraction or stimulate foreign investors. This explanation and this amendment, the respected ones that you have signed, can in any case not be ornamental to you, but essential to something else. Compare the legislative and legal service's position, which claims to be the same as I am thinking, because it is a specific one, should be written in the programme's development plan and even something else, because it is a matter of obtaining public funds without a call for tender, and should still be in line with the European Union's standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u104	Thank you. Mrs. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much. It is true that yesterday or before, we did not know exactly where and how big initial investments were defined. We already know that today. From 1.5 next year, we enter the European Union and thus take over the acquis of the European Union to the full, including in the field of state aid. In particular, this area has since been fully subordinated to the European Commission, which will also give consent to notified schemes, either individually or jointly for individual types of State aid. The rules of the European Union will be applied directly through the regulations, directives and guidelines in force in this area. The initial investment is defined in the cross-sectoral regional aid rules. However, a large investment is defined in the State Aid Guidelines, in point 4.4. What's written there? The initial investment is defined as: 'investment in fixed assets in the establishment of a new establishment, in the expansion of an existing establishment or in the start of an activity which constitutes the basis for a change in the product or production process'. However, a large investment is defined in the following way: 'largeness for individual sectors is defined in individual cross-sectoral State aid rules'. He said a lot of things. And we will respect them for every single area, just as European legislation has been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Aloys Sok is also scheduled for discussion after the reports. And then, once again, Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I checked in earlier because I wanted to replicate Mr. Puck, and you didn't give me your word. So Article 1 is something and Article 2 speaks of the meaning of the terms used. Mr Pucko is a confident man, he knows it, and answers it, and which is also necessary in an arrogant way, but of course these are not answers, but they are suitable for the party he is a member of. As far as the third amendment is concerned. So Article 2 speaks of the meaning of the terms used and does not explain it in the way you wrote: "Great initial foreign investments are foreign investments as defined by specific rules." This, of course, is not a clarification of the concept used, it is essentially an empty content. Because you're pushing for some special regulation - I don't know, maybe even with some secret - to define what these are major initial foreign investments. If we would like to clarify the meaning of the terms used so as not to raise doubts - so I understand these articles in all the laws to explain the concepts used - then of course we should write it differently. However, I have come to say again, just because Mr Pucko said that he would be ashamed to sign under the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, but nothing was ashamed of him to sign such an amendment, so such a way of debate would always wake me up from this hearing and I must react to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u108	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that you too want the meeting to end today. Just enough to try to be rational in the debates. Cyril Pucko, you want a replica? Then you have the upper hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say to Mr Sok that, with what I wanted to say to him, how I would shape the amendment, I would like to say that Article 1 is about what the law on the implementation of the budget is about. I'm sure you've read it, and if you wanted to be right, that's how you'd understand it. That's the whole story, and I'm just ending this controversy because I don't see any point. That's all I wanted to tell him and nothing else. And my well-respected colleague, Saša Peca, even gave me the right to copy too many words in the great haste when they copied from the Rapporteur, so the sentence lost its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u110	Willie Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Of course, I did not receive a fundamental response from the Secretary of State, will such approaches also be available to other interested foreign investors or only to those who hide behind this undefined definition?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u112	Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u113	If the Slovenian National Party's amendment is problematic, we will withdraw it. But it seems to me, and I really think it is extremely inappropriate for members of the Liberal Democracy to hope for such an important act as this, to go into one of the spelling errors when you all know what it meant, and that only one word has come in, that is the word "presents" too. And now that you've only touched these words for the last half hour, even though you've all understood the meaning of both tax policy and amendment! But, of course, unfortunately, because you have no other discussion, for this or any reason - probably because you can't have it, you're touching the amendment so much. If it bothers you so much, we can move it. In any event, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has said that it will not pursue the goals offered by the National Party, but will continue its policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u114	I am closing the debate on the amendments to Article 2 and moving on to decision-making. We have a proposal to vote on and vote on the amendments to the draft law on the implementation of the budget. And then I have a proposal to take a break to prepare the amendments for the third hearing, and at the same time, it's probably someone for lunch. Then we'd continue the session. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There must be more than 43 of us in attendance. I'll repeat the vote. May I have your attention, we'll vote next time. We're voting. Ten minutes' rest. Ten minutes in a row. Otherwise, we will not come with this meeting anywhere. Ten minutes. I have put forward your proposal to discuss and adopt the amendments, to vote on the amendments and then to take a break. I know there are more than 43 of us in the Chamber, and I will act as we rule. Thank you very much. We'll resume at 13.19 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u115	I say how to proceed with this meeting after this ten-minute suspension. At 13.19 we will vote on the amendments to Article 2 and then take a 30-minute break. At 13.19, as we broke up for 10 minutes earlier, we will vote on the amendments to Article 2. It's in the rules of procedure. Then we agree to take a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u116	voted for the third time. [[...]] Please come to the hall. May I have your attention, please? We will vote for the third time. Look at your voting devices. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. The vote was 8 to 46. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment didn't get any support. I am putting to the vote the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. 17 votes against 45. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment didn't get any support. And I am putting to the vote the amendments of four parliamentary groups, LDS, the United Lists, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. An explanation of the voice is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u117	Mr. President. On the basis of the implementation of the Secretary of State, I would expect this to be withdrawn. She explained for herself that it was pointless. Am I wrong? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u118	No one's backing out. Just an explanation of the voice, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u119	I will vote in favour of the amendment because it has been tabled at the request of the Law and Legal Service that it must be so regulated. True, the government believes that this can be done in a different way, but they agreed with the findings of the service, and that is why this amendment has been tabled. That's all there is to it. And so that it is not legally inconsistent, of course I will support it, because we have also invested it for that reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u120	Thank you. Explanation of voice, more [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u122	That's a second explanation for the voice, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u123	Explanation of voice. Before that, the question was procedural if this was not withdrawn at all. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u124	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u125	Here we are in the rules of procedure. Not only are we in the rules of procedure, but I can talk another minute longer. All Members of New Slovenia will vote against this amendment because we find it completely pointless. It seems to us that there is another step that is not in line with the responsibility of the national assembly, because it calls for someone else to do what the national assembly should do as a legislative branch. I would also like to express, on behalf of the Group of Members, my surprise at what Mr Anderlič said as the leader of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u126	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u127	I remember well when I read in the paper that he was a Member who would never accept any mandate or a decision from elsewhere that he was independent, but now he said that the service of our house had commanded him and would vote that way. That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u128	Thank you. We are voting on the amendment of the four groups of Members. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 48 votes against 17. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] The amendment was supported, accepted. So, according to the agreement of 30 minutes of rest, this is at 2.05 p.m. we continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u129	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives and representatives of the government! We will continue our work by discussing and deciding on the amendments to the amended law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005. We are in second reading and on page 2 of the review of the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 11 and the amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I'm asking for your attention, because we're going to make a decision. I'm asking everyone who's nearby to join us. We will decide on the amendment to Article 11. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 11. We're voting. Unfortunately, the first vote was not successful. I still think there's enough of us in the hall. Please, everyone in the lobby to join us. The second time we will vote on the amendment to Article 11. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, and 48.6 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 21 and the amendment of the four coalition groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are at Article 26, which is accompanied by two amendments. First of all, we will vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, is the vote on the next amendment, i.e. the coalition's parliamentary groups, to this article without purpose. I'm opening a debate. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 12 votes against 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Free 43.]] The amendment was not accepted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the four coalition groups. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 47 votes against 11. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are at Article 38, and we have only one amendment in our review. We have received a supplement to this amendment, four coalition members have completed this amendment, this amendment is not under review. At this moment, a respected expert shares another amendment with us, namely the amendment of a group of Members with the first-signed Andre Fabjan. So, on Article 38 and on the amendment proposed by the four groups of Members, and on the amendment tabled by the group of Members with the first signed by Andre Fabjan, I am opening a debate. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. In fact, I think it would be most appropriate for all the amendments proposed under Article 38 to be deleted. I believe that this National Assembly will play dangerously with all Slovenian municipalities if it adopts any amendment proposed under Article 38. I believe that it is unacceptable, extremely unacceptable for this State Assembly to impose on the municipalities new tasks under the laws and regulations. It does not, however, grant them the constitutional right to provide them with financial resources to do so. It is frankly said that this country plays dangerously with municipalities and wants to deliberately destroy Slovenian municipalities, most Slovene municipalities, except perhaps some who have enough of their own revenues. I appeal to all Members and Members no matter what, frankly, to the decisions of our chiefs, coalition chiefs, to support the 38th Article of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee. The state budget is finally adopted by the National Assembly and the National Assembly is also responsible and will ultimately be responsible for what will be the situation in our municipalities. For too many years, we have pushed ourselves down without giving the necessary financial resources. Now is the time to begin to correct this injustice, which is evident and which will cost our country dearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I cannot personally support this amendment. Look, since the board's 38. - it's with the first-signed or head of the parliamentary groups. The point is that the Committee on Finance has simply accepted the thesis of the amendment tabled by Comrade Trofenik. And given the knowledge of the problems we face in the municipalities and the fact that the legislative body imposes on us, as a national assembly, greater obligations on the municipalities, and given the amendment that proposes to reduce the amount per head by municipality, it is not only 1,200 tolls per capita, but according to the legal obligations to be followed by the municipalities in 2004 and 2005, it will amount to 10,000 per capita, which is not clearly defined here. And once again I stress and join the opinion of the Rokavec. My opinion is also as follows: I propose that we simply abolish the municipalities and actually run all the works that are now under the responsibility of the municipalities to be centralised from Ljubljana. In this way, if we continue with the funding policy of the municipalities, it means that certain investments will also be stopped, and mostly in areas where we are talking about the European funds being sang, for which municipalities also need funds to carry out certain works. I am surprised, in fact, to all these parliamentary groups, especially to the leaders and their politicians, to see such stepmotherly views, given that local self-government has shown that the congregations have shown the right degree of work and development. I am sure that if the municipalities and the leadership of the congregation, including municipal councilors and certainly citizens, did not cooperate with this local community in such a way, there would certainly not be such results, nor would the country's sung achievements be at this expense. And because of this amendment, please, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u134	Yes, thank you very much. See, after quite a hard debate on the Committee on Finance, it was possible to adopt a practically increased appropriate consumption per capita. But I think this amount is still too low. The functioning of Slovenian municipalities is significantly different than it may have been five, ten years ago, because today not only has the country hung a whole bunch of new obligations on our municipalities, but the municipalities are also ahead of the challenges of launching various development funds, preparing projects; in short, a large part of the development of Slovenia and the Slovenian countryside is carried out through community development programmes, for which municipalities have to invest money, the free money available or the soft part of municipal budgets. Thus, this developmental view of the municipalities also reduces the investment money. And I think that raising the right consumption per capita is a symbolic shift in the thinking of the country, also in order to reimburse the municipality for this part at least a few costs. Regrettably, we will also have less and less in the municipalities of this soft part of the budget, that we will in fact only carry out the legal obligations which we are also imposing here in the framework of the National Assembly, and the result will be that, in fact, our colleague is right to ask whether we still need some local self-government or just need some bureaucrats there to channel that money that comes from the country into the local community. I think that the signature of three leaders or four leaders of the parliamentary groups under the amendment, which once again reduces the appropriate consumption per capita, is reckless and is only the fruit of not being taken. However, I have a source for this money, which is also legally covered, only that it is not implemented: why they do not return to the congregation that has their own incomes above the right spending, this part of the money to the fund from which this appropriate spending will be financed. I know of municipalities that have substantially more of their own revenue than their appropriate consumption.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please. Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I came in too fast. Thank you. Look, I have these amendments - now there are two or more of them here by the Liberal Democracy to Article 38, I don't know, it looks like there are two, after the other signatories - I will not support, of course not. That's because everything that happens here in the National Assembly is crazy. That, simply put, is already simply insane! I do not imagine, honourable Members, and I ask you how much longer we will allow our heads to actually manipulate bureaucracy with our minds. We know the situation well on the local level, and we know what it's like. We ourselves adopt certain, I say, certain provisions of certain laws, which are contrary to existing laws, both to the law and to the law on local self-government, and probably to the law on the financing of municipalities, since we always impose new obligations - not only through legal acts, but also by means of sub-legislative acts, bureaucracy imposes new obligations on the municipalities and does not provide additional resources to do so. This is definitely true, and we Members know this to be true. You know that, too, the mayors from the options you're in today's government. Don't act and don't do anything! See, the congregations simply do not complain about all these violations committed by the authorities, and we or you, Members of the authorities, confirm and allow this to happen. I don't know why the congregations don't complain. I don't know why we have some associations or what these are some institutions that are simply silent and kneeling before this bureaucracy, which is constantly pushing us into an impossible position. I really don't know how the local communities are going to do all these tasks they have to do; you know what they're going to do. And I don't know why we Members are letting these things happen all the time, and we're not doing anything at all: neither in the area of regional development, nor in the area of community funding - well, local self-government is, in itself, relevant - and a whole range of other measures that we should take and should advocate some policy that would be appropriate for rural development, community development. I know that some congregations today have too much money. They have it too because we have allowed some to have incomes, extraordinary incomes that other congregations do not have, which has been unfairly discussed, including by breaking the law, violating equality before the law. They're known to have committed these violations. This is what we talked about these days on the committees, especially on the Finance Committee, etc., and it is those municipalities that already have a lot of resources that don't know what to do with them -- like, like, in Nova Gorica, where new slaves are throwing out, that put new slaves inside, or marbles, or I don't know what material they're all making. Simply gold slaves can work if they want, and elsewhere such a great shortage of resources! I think we should find out in the National Assembly once, Members, if no one else finds out about this in this country and if everyone else is incapable or kneeling before someone to say that some congregations are far, far-reachingly sublimated and that they will never approach those who are so developed today. Never! Therefore, I cannot support these amendments in any way, and, of course, I expect that you will sooner or later have Members with these things - and Members, of course - to start working and do something in this area. But if you just kneel for me, just kneel for me, I won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I would like to talk about the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 38, which is the amendment of the amended bill, as adopted by the Committee on Finance. Allow, however, in the introduction, your fellow Members and colleagues, those who still have a bit of responsibility to local self-government, not to let yourself get carried away on thin ice to get confused, at home, among those who are self-financing or self-financing, by others. Because the four signatories to this amendment and those behind them want this to be the point of conflict in the field of local self-government and, of course, after that old saying: the divide et impera is much easier than if they were united. If I go back to the content of the amendment or the content of the problem. In the 2004 supplementary draft budget, the government increased budget expenditure by 89 billion. At the same time, the face was to lower the local community's financial balance by 3 billion -- directly, and indirectly, it was a multibillion more. And unfortunately, you failed or didn't want to find out. Even though we have already reduced this potential in this National Assembly by a billion 700 approximately negative impact in the gambling law this year, the government has nevertheless gone against this irresponsible proposal, disregarding the acts or laws and regulations that have been issued this year and which directly increase the obligations of local communities significantly more than the planned nominal or real growth of principals, as proposed by the government. Let's just look at some. The Minister for Education's regulation on kindergarten prices or costs - he himself met and limited it to a maximum increase of 10%. You know what that means, 10%? In fact, it should increase from 12 to 15% as in what medium, but this 10% is also fictitious because all the negative differences that fall due to the fact that prices are not higher than 10% are fully covered by the municipalities. The costs of preschool education are comparable in structure to the appropriate consumption, not to the budgets of the municipality, 25-28%. If we count this on the total appropriate consumption, 2.5% has already received only child care and the government has proposed an increase of 4.2. Next, the decision to introduce a nine-year-old from 1 September also increases up to a third of the cost of schooling on rights, i.e. for first-graders or minimums, which is understandable because they need to be provided with a safe route to school. The housing law has significantly increased the costs of housing subsidies. These are all social transfers that need to be provided and must be implemented. But even though the government knew that, it went with an unrealisticly low increase in headship and now has the face to oppose it! When the proposal to increase what the Committee has adopted was for a modest 1.3%, which is about half of the additional resources needed only in the field of child protection, it disregards other problems in the current part of the budget, and disregards the problems that have arisen, for the first time in many years, the nominal proposals of the municipalities for the second year in the budget - nominally - are lower than they were in this year, and therefore are still realistically lower. All of this, of course, I can't say otherwise - for a long time I believed it wasn't, but I'm increasingly convinced it's one big speculation. Speculation - the additional costs incurred by EU obligations, the additional costs or difficulties incurred at the expense of tax reform and, more importantly, the burden of municipalities or directly on the population. Either it will be more taxed or they will have less rights or less quality of life because it is guaranteed by local communities. Where there is speculation - not only on the spending side, but also on the income side. The congregation’s own income will fall substantially in the coming year. First of all, due to the unrealistic assessment of the compensation for the use of building land, since we passed the law in this National Assembly, 218th paragraph, where certain parts of the Government speculated that taxation of the building land would result in some extra-large municipal revenues and that they could therefore close the state pipe in the structure of the division of income or indirect financial compensation. This expectation is false, unrealistic, and will not be realistic. Firstly, in the coming year - the government has already realised that there will be no inflows because the country cannot provide adequate bases and some legal problems are that even if they wanted to introduce these taxes further in the local community, they cannot. At the very least, at the expected level that someone unrealistically expects and tries to save some other savings, or at the expense of the municipalities, to make savings in the state budget. Secondly, in the same law, we have adopted - in particular because of the inattention of all, and in particular of the Infrastructure Committee - that they are no longer taxed or no contribution from infrastructure facilities. Do you know what that means? That means we've unloaded the country. Since the State owns the vast majority of infrastructure facilities that no longer pay compensation is paid, these are important resources that have fallen out of place for the majority not to tell all local communities. There's nothing more than power lines, nothing more than pipelines, nothing more than power plants and the like. That's what they say. We have consciously cut off the revenues to local communities. In addition, apparently we wanted to provide some of the concession fees through the law, but the following, I cannot say otherwise, speculation that concession fees for electricity facilities or the exploitation of Soča, Sava and Drava rivers do not bring except three municipalities or four in Slovenia - nothing to others because what we gave them with the law, we took the same tolar by calculating the financial compensation. Here is the savings of the state only in this speculation, which I personally claim has no legal basis. Article 22 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities states that revenue also falls within the scope of other rules. You've already accepted one such submission today. When this law was adopted in 1998, there were no concession fees. Today, however, the government claims that concession fees are being paid, under a law derogating from the energy exploitation of rivers, under the burden of its own revenues or, if you wish, at the expense of financial compensation. There's only one river, and three of us have only, the savings of the state as the owner are three billion. The sum that they brought us around for at home is something over a billion two hundred. I'm talking about Drava, I could say the same about Socha, and I could say the same about Savi. To such an unregulated approach, when the concession fee for gambling remains an improvement to municipalities, to those who are fortunate, when the concession fee for the energy exploitation of rivers, which is generally linked to the degradation of spaces, is a burden, that is to say, in fact, this concession tax is not, except for four municipalities in Slovenia, any remaining, of course, games that have not reduced the intended transfer only in view of the proposal or the budget currently in force for only three billion, but for at least twice as many. On the other hand, they indirectly reduced the cost to the state as owners of energy and other systems in order to be able, with an increased profit or income surplus, or whatever you want, to have at their disposal for some other purpose. But it all went to waste. For this reason alone, my proposal on the Committee on Finance was even proposed that, at least in principle and in a cosmetic way, with very small real impact, we try to recognise this first and, secondly, partially correct it. And of course, this amendment you're offering to the four great, forgive the expression, is an insult. An insult because you are offering a virtual amendment for 2005, which is mockery from the National Assembly and Members and municipalities and the Slovenian public. Because it doesn't have any effect. For 2005, there is a second problem. The same law that we are adopting today does not provide for the adoption of a supplement to the 2005 state budget in 2004. That is to say, the chieftain, who will be accepted here, will be making budgets for the next elections at this head office, because no one will accept them. Any government will arrive in 2005 with a rebalancing, but it will be too late because it will not be possible to change the municipal budget in return. The whole bunch was adopted yesterday and, consequently, today, amendments that are unacceptable because they provide the electorate with their own participation in investments or even otherwise: they allow investments beyond the rules of the game in force in that country. In combination with lowering the financial potential of municipalities, which this low principal means, as a result, in the structure of increasingly smaller investment parts of budgets and it represents a realistically smaller possibility for most local communities, whether from Ljubljana or to Hodoš, to apply for calls for investments. On the other hand, the same National Assembly, with the assistance of the government, has assured some, the game is very clear, the EU's available resources are only available to the electorate, and the local communities are in a position to blame themselves for not being able to start the calls because they will not have their own resources. It's not just about the funds, it's about the principle. I've been accused of resisting some plumbing for the last time, far from it! But in addition to three published or recognised water supply problems, there are dozens of them in Slovenia that are at least as difficult or even bigger. When this two-faced country, when taken over by the Water Act for water protection belts, all possible subsidies are distributed in order to ensure or protect healthy drinking resources, it is also prepared to provide compensation to the electorate only in selected environments when the agricultural use of space and healthy drinking water is being beaten. Of course, such a solution, as the Ljubljanaers have allowed themselves to put aside or soften the pesticide content in the water and force them to drink poisoned water, is unresponsible. Both for Ljubljana and similar effects are elsewhere. A flower that no one has warned about, I am forced to point out, in one of the decisions that is actually going to happen again today, twice, and I would point out that I will not be misunderstood: to all of the Slovenians the drinking water and the water supply, which is the extreme force, that in 2003 or in the future everyone would have it with the fact that some had to pay dearly, without the help of the country, despite being in the same country. But look, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the institutions in its composition, the agencies do not recognise any local community costs of project documentation when it comes to justifying the deliberate consumption of the ecological tax. The National Assembly shall, on a proposal from the Government, lay down the means to co-finance the project documentation. Respected neighbours from Prekmur, not taking this personally, it's not on your account, it's inconsistent, it's disrespect for the rules we set ourselves, and it's the same ministries that do it, why they do it. Again, it's our criteria or something else. It could have been a phone caller before. The criteria for public calls, decisions that some who are aware of the responsibilities of local communities are looking for all kinds of resources to ensure their own participation, but that is to say that they are prevented because their current obligations, in particular in terms of social transfers, have virtually prevented any further development because there is no development without investment. A respected minister of finance who is not, and to whom I personally have cultivated great sympathy and respect, because he comes from professional circles that need to be respected, as well as from him personally, he has disappointed me, he is rude in his absence, otherwise I have already said this on television last night. Threatening by resignation, threatening to spread the budget, at item 1.5 billion, on behalf of the financial settlement for the municipalities, is nicely said to be irresponsible and unresponsible. When laws have been enacted, in particular by the Public Finance Act, Zipro's postal collectors every year, so that the so-called overloads of future budgets can be spent currently more, not only where it is logical, for investments that take place for many years, but also where it is not necessary. This ministry cannot provide a solution that, if it does not have funds, which I do not believe, for a financial settlement in 2004, which would increase from this title by less than 5 per cent in a global way in order to extend this obligation to the local community at the beginning of 2005, which it does in any event every year because it then calculates the actual accounts. Therefore, the answer or argument that the deficit should be increased cannot be maintained. The argument that the budget should be increased is not true. No reallocation has to be made to the detriment of other items, since the calculation of the financial settlement, with all due respect, of those who do so to the Minister, which was the basis for the decisions of the Government and which was the basis for the budgets of the municipalities in 2004, is so inaccurate according to the method and the available data that the derogation is certainly greater in absolute terms than 1.5 billion. It could be up, it could be down. The super-amendment that respected colleagues and colleagues make every year with false expectations, but you never wonder how effective it is on the road segment, because if we did this analysis, it would be a deep disappointment and we would stop writing it. I stopped signing this in 1997, because I'm sticking to that saying that someone only goes on ice once, not anymore. Of course it's virtual or imaginary. As is supposed to be an offensive increase in headquarters for 2005. How long will it be in 2005, someone will decide in 2005. Anyone. What would really mean in this situation today and tomorrow, not tomorrow, is, of course, only an increase at least partially in 2004. And before I finish, because I was able to take myself personally to another side of the ice, when I wanted to correct at least partially, irrationally and unfairly and irresponsiblely the fact that what one law gives, someone with a technique allowed themselves to take when I suggested that all 50% of concession fees be recognised or excluded, however you wish, from the calculation of the financial compensation. This would mean 800 million in a global state, and 30 municipalities would approximately mean important development funds or, if you want, investment funds. This is also the government or government officials who have been crushed and therefore have not been supported on the committee. However, I wonder what they will do then, because it is clear from primary school that it will fall in the Constitutional Court. Because it's based, not what the law gives, someone with a calculation technique takes, but it's not so much, sorry to say, smart and smart to calm down those who could do it, so that at least half of what he gave them would be recognized by the law. Let me get this straight. Of course, it is a double disappointment, the government's irresponsibility, the irresponsibility of coalition, parliamentary groups and the leadership that I belong to, unfortunately. And for the overall responsibility of the government and, if you want, the National Assembly in relation to public finances, to the fourth public treasury, this is a local community that will have far-reaching consequences. I would understand it all together if we were in some emergency situation and I also agree that, in terms of savings or stabilisation, all segments of society must make an appropriate contribution, but that is not the case. No one will convince me when we increase the expenditure of the state budget by 89 billion, that this must be taken away from local communities. The increased costs of joining the EU and all that tax reform will bring, but a lot of it will cover, not say citizens, but in the second function of citizens in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I'll invite you to your word in an orderly fashion. Mr Sušnik, Mr Pukšič, Mr Fabjan and Mr Sok. Mr. Sušnik has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. When I heard that the Finance Committee had raised the right spending for a thousand two hundred dollars, I simply couldn't believe it, because it seemed impossible for me, given the attitude of the government and the coalition to finance the municipalities. However, this amendment, which has now been tabled on this Article 38, has put me on the real ground. I am sure that it has not happened or that there will be no movement in the sense that you will vote and put things in your place, as in this country they must obviously be. There was one symbolic hint for local communities that something could happen here in a positive direction. This appropriate spending is directly linked to raising budgets in 165 municipalities, 28 of which are financed by themselves. But when we look at the structure of these congregations, and then the structure of the electorate, and the little electoral mathematics, it is probably also clear to me, or perhaps to everyone, why is this report now that all 165 rural municipalities do not deserve this minimum raise of principals. Voters in these 165 municipalities are not crucial, they mean nothing in this electoral mathematics, which is why you are not prepared to give these 1,900 tolars. Nothing surprising, the relationship between the National Assembly, the government's attitude towards the countryside and local self-government continues. I wonder, no one can possibly give this answer, how long this story will go on. We should not be surprised if, over and over again, we have now even admitted that the percentage of gross social product consumed at the local level has risen by 0.2% from 5 to 5.2% for the Holy God. Thank you for your progress. However, this level is used locally and is still very, very far from the first comparable European country where this level is used 20%. I'm not going to support this amendment in any way. On the other hand, I have a thought that comes to mind. I think that this leap on the Committee on Finance was made only because of cosmetics, because the media have reported well that now, suddenly, the funding of the municipalities has improved, reporting on the fate of this amendment, which will put things back in place, will certainly not be as extensive and as the reporting of the Committee on Finance has been, so will or will the mayors answer questions, as you will get more money. A successful policy of governance, a successful manoeuvre that you have made and for which, I will say, I can only congratulate you, has been achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, secretaries of state, vice-secretaries, distinguished ministers, wherever you are, in Slovenian spas or on any skiing grounds, or anywhere else, a nice greeting from Slovenia from the budget hall, where of course you are not interested in what is most important for the functioning of the country. A very nice greeting to all four coalition parties of this coalition who are taking this Slovenia to a deep abyss. But thank God the year is up, they say next year will be better. I believe that Slovenian citizens will also do this for a better year, because you can't really trust such ones with shovels and cartwheels, let alone public finances. What you have done with the signing under this amendment, all four leaders of coalition parties, you have proved that you are not really for the country, that you are not really for this local community, but that you are only for being in power, and that you will, of course, play here with your duality, which is immeasurable. To talk about a billion and a half on this line for the financial settlement of municipalities at 1500 billion, at 89 billion deficits, bringing the country to a standstill, of course, is not serious. It is true that some want to produce this debate for the debate of those in the country belonging to the 28 municipalities that are financed themselves and those 165 municipalities that do not have these options. If they don't, we don't need them if they don't fund themselves. Why not? That's possible, too. And since you have a majority, you can change the constitution by writing down, we will have 68 congregations or 28 congregations that are funding themselves, while the rest will be exported. That's your option, too. A poor power that, of course, fears its own people. And what you've done and what you're talking about, of course, is totally unacceptable and unsustainable. I have asked several times, but of course there is no answer, because no one can give it, how much of the appropriate spending is the one that is somewhere within the borders, on average, in the country for, say, paying home to the elderly. According to the formula for calculating the so-called appropriate consumption, of course this cannot be explicitly established. Once, when we had a guaranteed consumption, there were five times as many, there were so many when you were 12, and there were 12 times as many. The difference is, of course, that some municipalities in the formula, according to the age of 65, may have older ones who do not have their own belongings, who have either a national or a farm pension and who have nowhere else to live those few hours of their lives than at home. But, of course, this must cover the municipal budget. Yeah, to some extent, everyone's on average the same. The differences are huge. Some municipal budgets need to cover up to 10% of their budget and this is unbearable. If we were to be aware of the leaders of the parliamentary groups of this national assembly, if the ministers and the government were not already aware of this, and if we were to listen to their Members, fellow Members from their own parliamentary groups, because there is no need for neighbours and others, then of course such a "gypsy" in saying that no one would think that I meant Roma here, but so "dog" that I would say otherwise, the amendment would not be signed by the leader. Only those who do not know the Slovenian countryside can sign this, except those who do not know that there are 165 other municipalities in this country besides the 28 self-financed ones. Of course, some four hundred people are behind these congregations. These are the real numbers, and that's the real data. I will not, of course, talk about the method of calculation and the law, which is totally inappropriate to calculate this financial spending, because this has already been discussed by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Gaspari, and this has been discussed by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Rob, and this has also been said by current Minister Dr. Maramor, but none of them has done anything. It's the least of his fault because he's in this position at the very least. However, because he knows the problem, he could have pawned it, and he would have expected that if the man was a word, I myself had a lot of hope when he took over one professional area of finance, that he would put order in this area, and that he would have done so that the legislation would apply to all these citizens in this country. Not the same, of course not, because we don't expect that. God forbid! But at least about, at least roughly the same, so with a discount plus minus 15%, you still have 30 for embezzlement and for various support to those investors who drive investments with higher profits, which, of course, can then be passed on to some other things when someone can have 70 jumbo posters, but of course it's a miserable cost. In any case, I would also expect Minister Mumorr to make himself clear here and to simply assume the position of Minister for Fair or Unfair Work. Well, and you see dear politicians, dear Slovenian politicians, you don't have this spine, you don't have to stand up for whether something is fair or for your political career. When we have such policies, of course, it will be easier in this country. Sometimes, however, one of the Members in a certain legislation hopes to do so when he is informed of those who have voted and chosen him, more than the instructions of some party's instructions or other conversations, and so on. When you know how to do this, there will be less of this duality. For the time being, I get the feeling that you voted on this amendment on the committee just to be able to speak out of coalition lines today and to see how good it would be if this were accepted, how hard you are trying to do. Then you come into the field, and people say, "Yeah," and listen, because they're Members of the Liberal Democracy, and the United Lists, and the other coalition parties have been trying, and you know they've been talking about this, but they didn't go through. Yes, my dears! It didn't go through, but who's to blame for not going through? Opposition. Never, none of the opposition, I'm sure, will vote for such an amendment. I hope that there is something else in your pants, and that one of the Members still hopes to put a Member's position ahead of the career, politically, for the one from which he was elected, and for the matter on which he will be voted. Of course, there will be a vote on whether or not some will actually survive in this country. Otherwise, some municipalities will have to send some three - month bills to the Ministry. That's what I was talking about yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Fabjan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! I would start with how the four colleagues started to invest, not one amendment, but one amendment to Article 138 and an amended amendment. But we're talking about one content together. I would like to say in my debate how, in essence, the coalition partners and thus the clear majority of Members in this National Assembly have forgotten what we have recently adopted this year, a year ago. They forgot about the Roma communities. Firstly, in the first part we delete 1200 tolars to the congregations, and in the second part in the amendment we delete the whole second paragraph, so we delete the Roma. In short, we forget about the Roma community in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that with a large majority of us in this National Assembly a good year ago, I think we have adopted two conclusions. When we passed a law amending the law on local self-government where the government, as a candidate, appointed municipalities to have indigenous Roma communities. The proposed amendment was adopted by the National Assembly at that time. At the time of the adoption of the law, it also adopted an additional decision, by a large majority, stipulating that the municipalities referred to above should be provided with additional resources in the 2003 budget. That wasn't there. Therefore, as the first to be signed by ten fellow Members today, I have tabled the third amendment to the 38th Article of the Law on the Implementation of the 2004 and 2005 Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, where we do not forget this. We have this option, and I think it's right not only to talk and think otherwise, but to do something concrete. But something concrete is that we put the right thing in the right place with this amendment. This means that these 20 congregations that have Roma communities in the congregation, as well as, above all, representatives in the municipal councils, their municipal councillor in the congregations, are granted certain funds. This proposal is that in 2004 and 2005, municipalities with a population of up to 2% of the Roma population in the municipality, with an elected representative of the Romani community in the municipality, should be increased by up to 1 000 tolar in 2005; and municipalities with a population of more than 2% of the Roma population in the municipality by up to 2 000 tolar. I think that this is a strong enough argument to accept this today because, as I have heard, colleagues in the coalition have somehow feared, after the calculation of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, that the initial proposal, which was in law, would further increase the country's burden by a billion 500 million. If I'm wrong, please let the government fix me. I can assure you that what the 10 Members propose is a lot, much less resources, and we will do something concrete. The fact is that only in the last two years the government has provided municipalities with the right to apply for certain invitations to tender for a problem in the Roma community. But look, the sumarum is the sumarum of these funds, I think 70 million for the whole of Slovenia. This is not responsible and unresponsible, and I would like to remind you once again that, with a large majority in this National Assembly, we have not long ago adopted two decisions which somehow oblige the Government to provide these resources in the budgets. So 10 of us didn't forget about it, like four colleagues who kind of deleted what they were doing in two pieces. In other words, I fully agree with the debate of my predecessors, but above all I think that you are hearing Mr Trofenik today, a fellow Member who has discussed precisely 21 minutes and 47 seconds. I think you have experienced 21 minutes and 47 seconds of truth in this Slovenia. As colleagues Čebulj said, development, progress in all municipalities in Slovenia is what we say or talk about the success of Slovenia, these are certainly the facts that each municipality has great merit along with projects, with the country to develop and that we somehow want to become more beautiful or faster developing before Europe. But the fact is, dear colleagues, that we are talking today about the law on the implementation of the 2004 budget and 2005 budget. On the fact that Slovenia joins the European Union in 2004. You could have listed the cases. Yesterday we were sitting somewhere in the southern part of Slovenia, and five mayors of South-Eastern Slovenia, if I look at it as statistical regions, with representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, we talked specifically about Slovenia's pre-accession to ISPA spending, for a central deposit in New Town, worth 4 billion 700 million. And what's the fact. That they came with information that when the municipalities first signed a letter of intent, we had to provide an additional 20% more than we originally agreed. And who in this success story will then tell who was successful, who didn't if, when someone puts you in front of a fact and municipality, insists that we have to provide as much as 20% more, now this 20% sum sumarum means, the case of the Belarusian community, a total of 400 million. That's impossible. Now I am going back to that debate my colleagues have already said. I can't agree with this amendment. In any case, I also propose that amendment when I say that we should not forget the Roma community in the municipalities whose representatives are the saints of the congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President, Members of Parliament and Members. Yesterday, I spent almost an hour discussing the amendments of New Slovenia to the budget, but not one was adopted. Of course, the length of the debate still means nothing. As for this debate, of course, it seems to me that it is a storm in a glass of water and that now a great coalition from the hill has moved him to this Parliament, in the Chamber of State. I am very pleased when the debate on the congregations opens. Not so long ago, some who today have been very concerned about the financing of the community expressed, voted and objected to all proposals to give the people of any region in Slovenia an opportunity for a new municipality. There were 51 proposals. Now we've approved one of them, and all the others have been slightly rejected. Even people were not given the opportunity to express themselves at the referendum, and I am very pleased that today, when elections somehow approach, there is a great deal of concern about how the congregations will survive, how they will be financed, and that is actually a problem in this country. I will now say that I will not support this amendment signed by the four Presidents of the Group of Members. It is true, however, that all of these tasks, which the Government of this country has delegated under the laws adopted in this Parliament, have been passed on to the congregations and, of course, has put an additional burden on them that you have, in fact, adopted all these laws by the great coalition. You have never supported the opposition that warned you that this is not good, except that any of our amendments would be adopted in this law. None of this has been accepted. Today, we hear from you about what's wrong with this country. So you have to attribute this matter to yourself and to your government. That is how I understand this matter and, of course, it would be much better if coalition parties agreed on each other if they came to the National Assembly with a coordinated proposal, but not that you are now developing this debate in front of the Slovenian public, who is for greater financial incentives to the municipalities and who is not. Totalling is 1.5 billion, what you are proposing, of course, change compared to the budget you adopted yesterday for 2004. However, for 2005, as we have already said yesterday, we have also heard this budget irrelevant today, as it will need to be amended again and again. I am even more concerned that the amendment we have on the table is coordinated that it is signed by all parliamentary groups, and here Members of the individual parliamentary group are vehemently opposed and defending their positions. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this suggests that the functioning of this ruling coalition is inconceivable. If the ruling coalition works so unintentionally, then citizens and citizens cannot promise much from such a coalition. Clearly, if we do not get what we asked for, then we will oppose another solution. For Slovenia, of course, it would be best if these decisions were harmonised. If they were harmonised, then of course the state would not impose on the municipalities tasks in the field of child protection, school transport tasks, I do not know, tasks in all other areas. At the same time, when it imposes these tasks, it also does not tolerate financial resources. I agree with all those who have warned of this. The opposition has been warning this for three years. Let me get this straight. I don't think that's the way it works. Apparently, it's more like the start of a pre-election campaign. But that's how you decided to handle it that way. The appropriate place also gave you RTV Slovenia to show even there how this coalition with the government at the head works in a coordinated manner. We, however, are in the opposition and will continue to advocate that municipalities be provided with higher funds, as Slovenian municipalities to municipalities in the European Union receive a relatively small share of gross social product for needs at the level of local self-government. However, I will not support this amendment, despite the fact that I do not agree with this way of discussing and playing a great coalition here among myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] So I can conclude the debate. I conclude the debate on Article 38 and on the two amendments to this Article. May I have your attention, please? We will first vote on the amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed Andre Fabjan to Article 38. Under two, we will vote on the amended or amended amendment of the four coalition groups to Article 38. If the first one isn't accepted. There are two amendments. I'll explain again. We have two amendments to Article 38. We will first vote on the amendment to amend the article, as proposed by the group of Members with the first-signed Andrej Frabjan. This amendment is on one piece of paper. This will be the first vote. The second vote will be on the amendment, which has been supplemented by four parliamentary groups. In the amendment review, you have an amendment of four groups of Members saying: In the first paragraph, the number 91 000 359 is replaced by the number 90 thousand 159. In point 2, the number 95 thousand 196 is replaced by the number 94 thousand 571. In addition to this amendment, the parliamentary groups propose to delete the second paragraph. Is that clear? Voice explanation, Mr Fabjan. Here you go. First, on the amendment of the ten Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have also previously discussed, in essence, at ZIPRO itself or also at this 38th article, and I would like to remind you all once again in explanation of the vote that we adopted two decisions in this Chamber a good year ago when the law on local self-government was adopted. The actual decision, which was voted by a large majority here and in essence, also confirms what the Ombudsman recently said, that you have also adopted by a large majority his report on the problem of the Roma community in Slovenia or in the 20 municipalities that we wrote in the law at the time. And this amendment of mine, with its ten signed fellow Members or nine, does not provide for anything other than the practical realization of what we have decided at the time, that we will not only speak and think, so we propose a concrete proposal that you have before you and I ask you to cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? [[Yeah.]] We therefore vote on the amendment of the ten Members. I'm sorry! Explanation of voice. I really look at it and I keep my eyes open for a few moments. Please be really more responsive and faster when you want to explain your voice. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Given that Comrade Fabjan did not fully quote this decision adopted by the National Assembly, he would have taken it up and said: "The Government should consider the possibility of providing additional funds to municipalities, as set out in Article 14 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government to address the Roma problem in the 2003 budget." He introduced Fabjan as a problem that needs to be resolved in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, it is also the decision of the National Assembly. This is also the 2004 and 2005 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u152	I wanted to make a procedural proposal. I ask you, Madam President, what is the principle of voting? Will we vote first on an amendment that is far more distant and that changes more, this is the amendment of the four groups of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your warning, Mr. Janc. Madam Secretary-General has deepened and the farthest amendment, please don't laugh at anything. All the amendments have come to the bench and I think, of course, it takes an enormous amount of concentration to look at all the papers in the sense of an emergency procedure. The amendment of the four groups of Members is, of course, more distant. And this principle is always used by the National Assembly. So we'll have to explain to the end before [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u154	The farthest amendment is the one that changes the whole article and no other explanation can be who is more distant.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u155	Mr Brenčič, the amendment of the 10 Members does not change, but in one way prescribes an existing decision in the complementary proposal. He's just changing numbers. Allow me a minute to get the expert services to look at it carefully and then we'll make the right decision. For five minutes, I interrupt to investigate exactly what the amendment is.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u156	Your Honor! Allow us to make a substantive assessment, since the distance of the amendment is judged by the content of the amendments tabled, by the Deputy Head of the Law Service, Mrs Ogrinc. Mrs. Ogrinc, please, please. I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The following is found after comparison of the amendments tabled. It takes into account the complementary draft law in Article 38 and takes into account the amendments tabled by the Group of Members, with the first signed by Mr Andre Fabjan, we note that in this amendment the first paragraph is exactly the same as the original text of the amended proposal in this Article, whereas in the second paragraph, as regards the funds allocated to the Roma population, only the criteria for determining the amount of resources required are changed in essence. The amendment of the four groups of Members, even though it has been tabled in two parts, takes this complementary proposal into account and actually amends the text of this Article in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u158	Thank you very much. This confirms that we will first vote on the complementary amendment of the four groups under 1. If not accepted, if not accepted [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] I'd like to ask your attention so that there's nothing wrong with it. [[...]] If this is not adopted, we will move to a vote on the amendment of the ten Members, with the first-signatory Mr Fabjan. But if I do, I'm very sorry. [[...]] One more time. But you've been chatting since I've been some people going really bad Jim doesn't like me explaining so much. [[...]] [[...]] We will first vote on the amended amendment or amendment of the four groups of Members. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the ten Members becomes irrelevant. If the amendment of the four parliamentary groups is not adopted, we will move to a vote on the amendment of the ten Members. Understand? As has been said, we are voting first on the amendment of the four groups. One more time. We are voting on two amendments. The four members of the group tabled an amendment to the amendment already tabled. This one's on. I read it. This is one amendment that reads to you again: In the first paragraph, the number 91359 is replaced by the number 90159. In the second point, the number 95196 is replaced by the number 94571. In addition: the second paragraph is deleted. It's an amendment. We are voting on this now. If adopted, the amendment of the 10 Members is irrelevant. If not adopted, we are voting on the amendment of 10 Members. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 34 to 26. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and therefore the amendment of 10 Members has become irrelevant. We're moving on. I'm putting 40a in the debate. Article and amendment of the four groups of Members to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We can move on to decision-making. We are voting on the amendment of the four coalition groups to the new 40a. Article 1 There are 47 present, 36 votes against 6. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 53 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Here we go. The fact is that the majority in the National Assembly rejected the amendment to Article 38. In this way it is impossible for municipalities to comply with the statutory requirements required by the State. And the construction law specifically assigned municipalities a new task. The purpose of adopting such a decision on compensation for the use of the building plot shall be to record all unpaved building plots and shall also establish a fully comparable cadaver of these plots. This is what he asked the congregations to do within six months of the law. For half of the year, the vast majority of Slovenian municipalities have not regulated decisions on the compensation of building land in accordance with Article 218 of the Buildings Act. Why? Because he has neither financial nor human resources conditions so that the requirements he has set before the congregations can be fulfilled. It was simply at this point that we were first faced with an absolutely uncomparable proper settlement made by the Ministry of Finance. Then this alignment was corrected, but it is still substantially too high as it is. These revenues will not be acquired by the municipalities in 2004, possibly in 2005. However, the fact is that the law itself requires that municipalities, if not regulated by the decrees, be compensated for the use of building land at the level determined for land that is built building land. For those who, in the spatial and other acts of the municipalities, are defined as wallless building plots and, of course, if they do not do so, the municipalities must, after that period, charge the amount set for walled building plots. I am sure that most Slovenian municipalities will not have this in 2004 until 31 March. At the very least, it would be necessary for the National Assembly to listen and allow this amendment to be imposed after 1.1.2005. This possibility has already been addressed by the National Assembly on some issues. Let me just put it this way. For the 2002/2003 ZIPRO, which was adopted by the National Assembly in December, in Article 41, the VAT rate increased to 20% in the first paragraph and in the second paragraph the VAT rate to 8.5%. At that time, the State decided that it must do so in order to obtain sufficient funding. At this point in time, I estimate that, since the amendment to Article 38 has not been adopted, there are substantial reasons why we should accept this amendment and that we should not put the community in an illegal situation where, on the one hand, they will not be able to carry out these legal tasks or they will be able to do so and so on. If I go back to some of the solutions that are in the new law, the new law on local self-government, where even the power of the government to fail to implement it, violates the law so that it can begin proceedings for the discharge of the mayor or the municipal council, this is even more ignoring. Therefore, I believe that by adopting this amendment we will not increase any additional financial burden for the country, but we will allow the municipalities to regulate the requirements of Article 218 of the Construction Act within a reasonable time. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Right away. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, then Mr. Pucko. Mrs. Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. I am interested in the Government's position on this amendment, which I am well aware of. In particular, because with regard to built - up buildings, I can say that there may have been plenty of time left for the congregations, because in fact these matters should have been aligned by about a month of June. However, as far as wallless building sites are concerned, I must say that despite the constant calls for congregations to obtain certain criteria and criteria, what is a wallless building land at all, because the law is extremely undefined, and to prescribe this matter roughly uniformly throughout the whole country, they do not get this answer. Thus, everyone is working on his own and I think that the result will not be any financial gain, but thousands and thousands of complaints about the doses that citizens and citizens will receive next year. I therefore wonder what the government's position on what it would mean if such an amendment were accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. The Government of this amendment does not support it for two reasons. The first is that decisions to be taken at the municipal level are in full swing; in many municipalities, decisions have already been taken; in some, they will be adopted by the end of the year. It is true that some municipalities will be a little late, but we do not think that this is the reason for adopting such a solution in the law on the implementation of the budget. On the other hand, as regards the lack of clarity as to the status of unpaved buildings, the National Assembly in June rejected in fact the compulsory interpretation of Article 218 of the Construction Act. The Ministry of Environment and Space has given a number of instructions on how to deal with this article of the law. If there is another question here, I think it is possible to resolve it by the end of the year and clear up these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please, then Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I expected the Secretary of State to explain the financial implications for the State budget. Because it's not, I'm interested in "yes" or "no", what they are or aren't, and what they are, if they are. Otherwise, of course, I will be happy to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please. Sir, onion, allow the Secretary of State to complete two responses. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u167	The adoption of this amendment has no financial implications for the state budget, as the state budget has not yet included the consequences of the new calculation of the building land compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Look, I will personally support this amendment. I would like to add a little bit more to the explanation given by the State Secretary, who is talking about the law that has been adopted. We are talking about the majority of the congregations having already adopted decisions on the replacement of building land, some correcting it. But there is another issue here and another problem that arises through the building law. I will not quote the article of the law itself and of course the law itself, which is also prescribed by the Ministry. This is about the fact that the municipalities here have no digitization, a complete cadastral by the municipalities. This public controversy is also exchanged in various newspapers of the tax administration, geodetic administrations, and short-term ministries. Here I would say in this case that the government doesn't know what the left hand does or what the right hand does. Last but not least, it is a decree that will actually burden citizens who talk about unwalled surfaces that talk about walled surfaces. Let me also remind you that the Geodetic Authority or the Ministry of Environment and Space has already driven a cadastral facility in 1997/98 and has data available, but does not have land that is unpaved. They should also have the congregations at their disposal. This is all the problem that arises between municipalities and the tax administration, which requires local communities to transmit data in order to issue decisions, payment decisions to citizens. And certainly, not only in 1994, that we will face it, as a colleague from Domžal said, but in 1995. Since some municipalities still have planning spatial documents, which have since 1993, 1995, some municipalities have joined the amendment of planning spatial documents and will have digitisation of the cadastral agricultural land, unbuilt building plots and, of course, building plots. At that time, it will be possible to say that decisions in the congregations will actually come to life. That's it. Thank you very much. And that's why I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to discuss it anymore, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We therefore vote on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 53. We're voting. There are 59 of us in attendance. The vote was 32 to 19. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Your Honor! According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, has tabled an amendment to Article 53a, until you get a written removal to the table, allow me to read the amendment to you. Mr. Bajuk will, of course, explain it. The amendment to Article 53a is therefore tabled and paragraph 53a is deleted. Explanation that this is a pointless approach and requires a systemic solution. So, at 53. May I have your attention, please? [[...]] I am opening the debate on Article 53a and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group with the content that this Article should be deleted. Dr. Andrey Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. Respectable. This amendment was accompanied or received at the table for the last minute by the Finance Committee, if you had the opportunity to review it, opening up the possibility of paying off the tax debt. Dearly beloved, the explanations at the meeting themselves were very succinct, I myself had the opportunity to ask Mr Marble in the television programme, and he explained to me there that this was a proposal of economists in the strategic council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Economic Affairs, not a government for economic affairs - a strategic council for economic affairs, so that we could understand each other, namely that he agrees in principle with this matter. [[...]] I must admit that I also agree with this in principle, it would be good for the Slovenian government, and in particular the tax administration, to have a systemic position on how to resolve the issue of tax debts. Of course, when I say the word tax debt, it comes from the memory of a lot of things, and I would like to remind you, but I have warned you that this is a matter of genuine fundamental importance in a democratic society. It is equal before the law, especially before the tax law, and if there is a principle, if not for pragmatic reasons, a country must provide them, but the equality of all before tax law. I agree that we have to do this, but, gentlemen, if you're looking at the explanation, because you don't have to look at anything, because you won't find enough, I'm asking you if it's even wise to go that way. In explanation, the only thing we know is that the tax administration said it was 26 such companies. Whether it's 26, but it doesn't know if you believe the tax administration knows it's 26. We have not forgotten - I hope not - that we have not forgotten - that the Court of Auditors has told us that it cannot issue any opinions on the financial statements of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia because they are not coordinated among themselves. Then I ask myself, why, for expenses only, that's to say, those debts that go beyond 20 million tolars. Why not less? What's the number? What's your opinion? Or they drank coffee and they made up their mind, and I don't know, and I'm sure you don't either. But one would wonder why not 15 or maybe 25. Where is the professional explanation for this? Do you really feel that this is an easy way of doing things? Then there are conditions. The company fulfils the conditions for restructuring, and it must be in any law. But I don't know if that's the principle that's written in a lot of laws and that we're going to have problems that we're going to use that we don't. But it's strange, maybe that in paragraph four they say they have to inform that they have to get consent from the Ministry, and we're back to the same thing. In matters where it is up to the State to decide, you will leave it to the Minister to do so, for he already knows. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the right approach. Then they'll keep some other condition. Second paragraph, second point, to maintain jobs in less developed areas. Why not just in less developed areas? Why not somewhere else? What if 25, 30 million tolars are not in a threatened or less developed area? Do you know what a less developed area is, or is it above average, over two thirds, over one third? What's worse is anyone who's not the best, but who's already worse. Do you think this is some kind of law? Is it even possible to propose such a thing? And the third point: the conversion is reasonable, and according to the principles of a good master - this is wonderful. That's really interesting. Because if we still have any problems in this national assembly, we do not agree on what good governance is. As you, in the great coalition, feel that good governance is in many ways, elsewhere, on this side of the National Assembly, as far as the coalition of Slovenia is concerned, we have a completely different view of what good governance is. You still think it's a good thing, like, the third amendments, and this law that we passed at the ZIPR. Well, then there's another question. Tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, how will we decide this matter when the Court of Auditors has asked the Government to replace the Director. That's old news, I think. I hope you remember, that was, I mean, two months ago. What did the government say? Yeah, you know, as long as it stays like v.d., we might change, we'll make one reference. Call for a new director. And of course, they didn't respond at all to what the Court of Auditors finally did after ten years of demanding something like that. But since we were asking these things at the finance committee meeting, I don't think you had it today, no one had the chance to read the papers in detail. However, I would like to tell you that in today's Diary, Friday 12 December 2003, on the page, far back where such ads are published, we have an ad by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, a call for the Director-General of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and this will take a few months. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If our government really cares about the issue of tax debts, do you not think we should start where the Court of Auditors found that they should first arrange the bookkeeping, that we will even know what it is? Does it not seem reasonable to you that the government should respond to what the Court of Auditors has said earlier, and this National Assembly has not yet hoped to take this stand? Do you not think it would be useful for us to have an open debate once in this national assembly about what is really going on at the level of tax debt? These stories are the same and different. The only thing we know is it's doubled in the last two years. Maybe it's because God knows why. Because we don't know. So, not only is this done quickly, it is pointless that there is no professional basis, but this is suggested by the same government, which is actually shaving from the Court of Auditors to the issue of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, not to say from all citizens and citizens, because there is something wrong there, but the birds know and sing, only our government has not yet discovered - excuse me, it has discovered that they have already given the invitation today. I propose that this be deleted, I propose that this National Assembly adopts a decree and requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to come with some concrete programmes, how we will ensure that we realize in Slovenia after 13 years of our independence this elemental principle of equality of all before tax laws. I propose that this article be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. After all, I am only a member of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, but I must tell you that when we addressed this amendment, there were nine members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and only one was against. I think it was Mr Bajuk, that is to say, your colleagues: whether they left the committee or whether they voted otherwise. Therefore, I do not think I will speak in plural, but I will speak only on behalf of my Group of Members, as I have explained on behalf of the Group of Members also the law on the implementation of the budget, I will use only the last sentence. "In the UK Group, it seems to us that it is an important instrument to secure the property of the country with the possibility of future sale of the capital injection of a particular company." And I am sure that this will also be done by the other parliamentary groups, which have given this amendment adequate support and voted against Mr Bajuk's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajuk, isolate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Grošelj, I did not deny the importance of this issue, of course it is important! How important it is! I think it might be another smart approach to this. But I will explain, if not, to those who hear this, that obviously there is not enough hearing for such things in this national assembly. But I'll tell you what I'm afraid of. Do you know what I'm afraid of? I'm afraid we'll write some off - not write off, sorry. This is a conversion as a capital injection, of course, if this company is a candidate for restructuring - then we will sell it, sell it as a sale, as in this country, our country, really this is happening, we will sell some god knows what procedure and impreciseness as they know it happens, and we will actually get some write-off. Because those who buy will get much less than this - they will pay less than maybe this is the release of this or the capital injection. I think that it is a completely imprecise way that is involved here or implicit in this proposal of the government, that it is pointless that we need a systemic approach to do so. I am ready, we are giving as soon as possible an extraordinary meeting of this National Assembly, immediately after the holidays, if necessary, in order to do so. Not in a way that will bring us any more trouble. Believe me, my dear fellow, I agree with you that this is a very important matter, but I also did not deny that it would not be a smart way, at least as an approach, but not as it is written here. Not without fuses, not without a system-wide solution entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I think I can wrap this up. So I conclude the debate. Article 53a of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group with the following content: 53a is deleted. We will vote on this amendment. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And the last amendment of the same motions. This is the amendment to Article 54a, with the following content: 'no longer the position of the direct user' is deleted, but in the first paragraph because it is no longer in the second. It is said that the first paragraph deletes "there are no more positions of direct user", but I am opening a debate on this amendment. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. But here's the thing, I think it's just a editorial problem, because as long as the memory hasn't left me and I don't think it's me. Otherwise, I couldn't check our board meeting with a magnetogram. Here's the thing. As you know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed that certain offices be abolished. These are included here in the first paragraph: the Immigration and Refugee Office, the Public Procurement Office, the Government Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Drugs, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Disabled Persons and Patients, and the Slovenian Language Office. This law, this proposal is in the process. The government has drawn up a budget on the basis of this item so that this law will be truly adopted. And we didn't deny it, and I don't deny it either, because it's very possible that it will be accepted, even though I will be firm against at least one office and you know what it's about. It's the Slovenian language office. But here in the way it is and as it is presented to us on the committee and I have voted for this amendment, it is that they will operate, that is to say, they will work as ordinary users as they have been before, until the point when the law will be passed. From there they are no longer; however, the funds provided for their operation are not now in their offices, but in the ministries to which they would then be transferred once the law has been passed. I think what I've suggested is that this should be deleted without having a direct user position anymore, but then this would be read as follows. All these offices shall be financed by the Ministry's financial plan, which shall be included in the 2004 budget, until the law or regulation is in force. That's the principle. That's what they say. They're doing what they've been doing so far. The funds envisaged for their operation are now in the ministry where the government intends to move them - they will do so. Not that we now declare the south as if they were no longer budget users. Because you know what that would mean. This would mean that this National Assembly once again accepts a completely secondary role in its work. But why do we have a proposal for a law, why will we even consider it if we prejudge in this law what will be the end or the end result of the law once it is adopted? I hope that's clearer. On the basis of Mrs State Secretary's explanation, I dared to suggest this, I hope you will also support this. This means that they will act as they have done, but they will no longer be direct budget users once they are abolished, then we will have to act on the basis of all the rules that apply to those which are part of a ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I think that the debate in the current article is appropriate, but I also think that it would be no different if this amendment was adopted, because I think that the definition of the role of the direct user is actually a more explanatory part of this article than anything else. But the point is, we'll all know what we're talking about. In the budget, these bodies, which are written here, do not have their own financial plans and, from this perspective, because the definition of who is the direct budgetary user, they also do not have the status of direct budgetary user. This, of course, does not mean that they will not be financed even during the period when a special law may change their situation, but will be financed through the financial plans of the ministries to which these authorities would move when a special law is passed, so that, I think there is nothing wrong if the amendment is adopted and nothing wrong if it is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u181	Thank you very much. In fact, the difference is in the period up to the time when the law will be adopted. Until the law is passed, these offices exist even if the Ministry of Finance has decided on a shorter path and is already so proposed in the budget. However, they have and must have the status of a direct budget user until the law is amended, if not, but ZIPRO becomes a fundamental law in the regulation of our government, which I find unacceptable and disrespectful to this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I think we can get through. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Personally, I mean small things differently, but in this little thing, there's a difference. If we delete the text "they no longer have the position of a direct user", they are direct users. And the point is, they don't have direct user status anymore, because the laws that would regulate it haven't been adopted yet. And that's why I think it has to stay that way. Despite a different opinion of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate. And we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have therefore concluded the decision on the amendments under the second reading. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the bill. I ask, would any of the qualified candidates to the articles to which the amendments have been tabled make an amendment? On the bench, or we're in knowledge. We already have one amendment. [[...]] I ask, do you want qualified candidates to table an amendment? If you want, we will interrupt this point and proceed with the 4th item of the agenda. If you don't want to, we'll move on to the third hearing and consider an amendment that has already been tabled in the third reading. Therefore, it is very important to me whether you are predicting in third reading that you would like to table an amendment. No, no, no. So we can go to the third reading of the amendment. You get him on the bench any minute. If you don't mind, I'll read it to you. It will also be explained by the applicants themselves. The Slovenian People's Party's Group is proposing an amendment to Article 38, which we have already amended in second reading. In particular, the following text. The second paragraph, which we have therefore deleted in the second reading, is added. They propose to re-add the second paragraph, which reads: "The amount of eligible consumption per person in the Republic of Slovenia in the municipalities which have an elected representative of the Roma community in the municipal council shall be increased for 2004 and 2005. First time. For municipalities in which up to 2 per cent of the Roma population are citizens, there are 1,000 tolars in the municipality. And a second time. For municipalities in which more than 2% of the Roma population are citizens, there are 2000 tolars in the municipality." Explanation that the proposed amendment places a slightly lower burden on the state budget and still provides the necessary additional resources for the tasks given to the municipalities. I am opening a debate on the amendment to Article 38. Mrs. Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I just want to justify the content of this amendment briefly. The first paragraph remains as it has been accepted by the majority and has been proposed by the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups and has been criticised by our own colleagues for this move, but it is only in politics. In the second paragraph, we propose to write down a solution related to the decision taken at the 16th regular meeting of the National Assembly, which reads: "The Government should examine the possibility of providing additional funds to the municipalities referred to in Article 14 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government to deal with the Roma problem in the 2003 budget." That's when the budget went through. Now is an opportunity for 2004. Further justification, respectable colleagues and colleagues. I have before me a report from the European Commission for 2003 on the area of minorities. And Slovenia has earned one page and a half of the report and more than half of it is related to the Roma problem in Slovenia. And not only on Roma issues, in this report they very precisely quote the situation that "local government", i.e. the municipal assembly and mayors are obliged to enable those of their Roma nationalities, under the applicable laws, to improve their socio-economic situation, their housing opportunities, education and employment. This amendment, colleagues and colleagues, also follows the European Commission's expectations. I expect him to receive majority support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. We will therefore move on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 38. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 24 votes against 23. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In the context of the third reading, we have concluded our decision on the amendments pursuant to Article 140, paragraph 5. I ask the legislature and the representative of the government whether the law is inconsistent because of the amendments adopted. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u187	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u188	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u189	I note that by voting on this amendment, the budget you have approved is not in line with the law on the implementation of the budget. I don't know the exact quantification of this amendment, but I'm guessing it's about one billion in 2004. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Then you'll have to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u190	Mrs. Kamnar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u191	If this is a smaller amount, this would be the power, I suppose, to provide during the flight from the current budget reservation, if it is a larger amount, but not. Certainly this expenditure is not foreseen, so I would like to ask you to determine the extent of the money involved. On this basis, we will be able to find consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also points out that due to the amendment adopted to Article 53, a harmonisation amendment will need to be drawn up. That is why the representative of the legislative and legal service will also inform us of the position of the legislative and legal service. Here you go, Mrs. Ogrinc. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. With regard to the amendment adopted for paragraph 53. Thank you very much. In the light of the amendment adopted for Article 53, which directly interferes with the building law and expressly lays down a new deadline as provided for in Article 218 of the Construction Act, we consider that this is a non-systemic approach and a direct non-compliance with the basic, that is, the basic law. And the situation is exactly the same as it was addressed on the home labour body with regard to the basic text of the bill, which in a similar way wanted to amend the solution in Article 43 of the Construction Act. At our warning, the proposed solution was not supported. And a similar situation is here. This is a direct intervention in the resolution of the parental law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I interrupt this item on the agenda for the preparation of the coordination amendments. And we're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. So I'm breaking up point three. Once the harmonisation amendments are in place, we will move to the consideration and decision-making of the fourth item of the agenda after the conclusion of the fourth item of the agenda. And now we're moving on to 4. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF THE STATE FINANCIAL AND REAL DEAL FOR 2004 AND 2005. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to further explain the draft decree. Representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mag. I would not like to introduce Anton Zunjič, so further explain. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee considered that decision on the scheme for the sale of state and real property at its last or last regular meeting. In this regard, we have found, in the light of the legislative and legal comments, that there are so many shortcomings both technical and substantive that the government has submitted a new, revised programme for this sale. As a result, the Committee had to adopt certain amendments to Article 2 to Article 3 and to the title of Chapter 2.2. I propose to you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we adopt such a revised proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u196	Thank you, chairman of the committee. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. By the order of the applicants, colleague Sasha Peca, please. Position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u197	In 1994, the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u198	May I have your attention and peace, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u199	In 1994, the National Assembly adopted a constitutional law on the rehabilitation of the banking system, in which it issued some form of State obligation until recovery. A few years later, 1997, the Bank of Slovenia issued a decision on the effectiveness of the rehabilitation process. However, the value of the rehabilitation was covered by bonds. The conclusion of the Bank of Slovenia report was: "The State has carried out a positive recovery", and at the same time adopted the conclusion: This State Assembly with a quorum of two-thirds majority that the privatisation or sale of state property in connection with banks requires a special banking law. I started only because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still does not comply with the obligations which were accepted by the Quorum majority. Because there is a New Bank of Credit in the list of sales of state assets that are ahead of us right now. So one of those institutions that was covered through the rehabilitation of the country, which cost over 400 billion Slovenian tolars. We have already warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia several times that in this case it is making a mistake, working unlawfully and unlawfully. However, there has been no warning so far, and I do not believe that today's warning is going to be delayed, and all that remains for me as a member or delegation of the Slovenian National Party, to the extent that we wish to respect the constitutional order, is opposed to the proposed postponement submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u200	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State and other gentlemen of the government! This point is already our old friend, and we have talked about it many times and have also talked about some of the shortcomings we have seen in the report. You could almost say that it's kind of paper and a "sorry" child that we've tried to rehabilitate in the past with no success. Finally, however, some of our legislative and legal services and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have finally come up with proposals. It seems that this thing is on better feet. Nevertheless, we believe that this report is still lack of data, and sometimes one wonders whether it is more negligence or intentional concealment of data. It may be both, but since this is a business decision, it seems to me that some standards should be better defined and then the information we receive is further clarified. The government is providing us with information about the property in some kind of meal, and that is flawed. What we are getting at the hearing, I assure you, this is not a business report that a serious economic committee could review and make decisions on this. There are some things I'd like to mention. And one thing that worries the driver is that the government has been running this property for years after the conquest, not to mention what she's been doing before. And one would like to know how much control there was over all of this or control. In all of this, the government had great opportunities to manipulate this property and somehow prepare gold mines for some personal or cliental enrichment. And we see that today. Unfortunately, this has taken all these years and it is only now that we are starting to deal with this, corruption and conflicts of interest and so on. That's ten years from now and that's ten years from now. Nor do we have any good information on how this state property has been managed, whether it is capital or real property. Above all, very large assets, we can never get an accurate review of this, above the entire value of this property. And with all the other business information that would normally be expected in such reports. I'll just mention a few things. For example, we do not get an overview of the entire investment of state money in each of these companies that are on the sales list. Thus, we cannot know how much the government has already invested in these companies. We don't even know what the profit or loss is going to be, or whether the sale of a company's nominal value. We don't even know who is in the supervisory world and in the administration of larger companies. In fact, it's crucial for every company to know who's running and what kind of people they are. In fact, if we look at our companies, as much as a person knows there are countless connections in them, there are many "insiders" and similar. And the question is, what kind of control does the government have over all these authorities? We would also be interested to know at this stage when the government has remembered that there is a possible conflict, and very much, there is a great potential for conflicts of interest among the authorities mentioned in these societies, and what it has done so far and with what success. Each report should also contain the name of the evaluator and his qualifications, so that they can compare to whom the government gives these things, which are very profitable. Then it is a matter of committees appointed for each sale and it would also be necessary to see by what criterion it is decided, by what qualifications and so on. All of this is now that the government has been running these companies for so many years, extremely, extremely important, and here we can see what kind of government has been and what we can expect, with the government selling only a fraction of this property, what will happen to others. In the 2003 annual programme, 32 companies and five additional customs companies were appointed for the sale of capital investments in the country, but of these 32 plus five were sold, one was sold, four were in the negotiating phase, three were suspended, 15 were in the commission phase and 6 were decided in accordance with the national programme not to be privatised. So we have a review of very slow action, which is to some extent understandable, due to the market, etc., but one wonders that so many companies are in the process of appointing commissions. I'm not going to talk about the state of real property, which is relatively large, because it's approaching three billion dollars, and we can say that this is going to be a problem with this property, because it's mostly objects, say, cars, etc., and as far as it goes, it's going to "take it away" to sell it for a smaller price. I hope that the finance ministry after the remodeling, etc., has also received people who will look at these things and that in the future we will receive information that will be more accurate and help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u202	Thank you. What do you want, Dr. Bayuk? I'm going after the reported groups and then after the Members. I'm sorry, but that's what I have to do. I give the floor to the LDS and Cyril Puck for the position of the Member Club. Anton Anderlich, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u203	Thank you very much, I apologize, but some time ago a change was announced, given that, in these reports in fact, it appeared - and in the debate on the decision on the sale of state property - practically a permanent series of issues, it is indisputable that it is necessary for the government to propose to amend the proposal of the law on public finances and to deliver it to the National Assembly in a way that we will eliminate some senselessly and that the State Assembly will indeed deal with those things that also fall within its competence. In fact, you are in this report and in these documents you have been able to find that we are dealing with the sale of state property, which is worth, if I have read correctly, the smallest - or at least my Members can please, if I can no longer have in this review the sale of individual property, which is estimated at 500 tolars and is being dealt with by the National Assembly. [[...]] On the other hand, of course, almost a billion. But, since it is not a matter of judging whether these are real numbers or not, the National Assembly should, in our firm conviction, be familiar with the report the old country intends to sell, under what conditions and so forth. And in those cases, when it really comes to strategic, very important old people, it is also right that the National Assembly decide on that. This decree, I think, is very difficult to accept also because, if the law on public finances speaks unquestionably of the fact that an integral part of the consideration of the budget and is then to be discussed by the national assembly, it cannot be stated in the decree that the sale of some property and written at the same time: there is no appreciation. Well, there's no telling how much it'll be sold for, if it's sold. Furthermore, there is a serious problem that some things occur year after year in the sales programme and then, for example, you have when the legal and regulatory department orders you to add more detailed explanations to the decision, say that after 2.5 2.8 [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] For example, consulting engineering that sales procedures have not begun. [[..]] But you had this inside two years ago. So, conscious will not sell it. And then why do you put it on a year-on-year list? And you have quite a few cases like this. The fact that, in the midst of any sale, I believe that individual ministries, due to the so-called balance sheets, had to have a solid record and that they could also count on this money throughout the year, in accordance with the budget law and the law on the implementation of the budget, how these money would come into being and how they would be made available to them. However, I think it is right that this time we support this, if this is also an urgent condition for the remaining three things to work, namely the 2004 Budget Act, 2005 and the Budget Implementation Act for both of these years, but this work that we are doing at this and similar points is absurd. Believe me, these explanations, which you added, are not appropriate and cannot convince Members that they can, I will say, believe in transparency, transparency and, I will also say, some serious attitude towards state property. For I say, until I get an explanation of why some items from year to year appear and are on the list, then you write after three years that the procedure has not yet begun. And you have, and you have, the preparation of the commission is under way, and it's been in there for the third year. Please! I say, consciously, that this is bad and just because we do not interfere with the enforcement of other laws, we will support this, but otherwise it is not to be supported, but I really suggest that the government, despite the fact that the decision cannot be proposed to amend public finances laws and that it regulates it differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u204	Thank you. I give the word to Janez Podobnik for the position of the Group of Members. He's quitting. Leopold Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. In July this year, when we also discussed the sale of certain subsidiaries in the National Assembly, if I recall, this was specifically from the Trbovlje Hrastnik mine, the government was also promised that a special law would be drawn up to regulate the divestment of state assets, given that it was found that there would not be a change in the financing law soon. However, regardless of how it was answered, we in our parliamentary group have assessed from the standpoint of the law in force. We have found that this regulation on the sales programme for State and financial assets for 2004 and 2006 is prepared in accordance with Article 13, paragraph 3, and that it is also in line with the amendment which was two years ago or one year ago, after which the Government is also obliged to submit to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 80(4) of the Law on Public Finance, for consideration by the National Assembly. From this point of view, of course, we believe that the existing legal system has been followed in the same way as it needs to be done. Indeed, this may have led to a few more open questions, but in the end, I will say this: together, especially on the basis of our legislative and legal services, there has been only such a formation that this decree can have its content and that technical and other shortcomings have been addressed. It is also, in fact, that a new text, as well as a new table, has been drawn up on this basis and, of course, this addition of this material to the Committee can also be found together that it can be dealt with smoothly. If you allow, maybe just a few more words about this, of course, from this decree, we only find that, in the present case, these capital investments, which are based on this inventory or in this review of which the State is the holder of, and therefore, in Chapter 2 of this document, the sale programme of all capital investments is also presented as those types of financial assets of the State whose sales are planned in 2004 or in 2005. We also, of course, estimate that all of these capital investments, which are before the final decision of the divestment, are manufactured in the same way as was not possible at the moment at all. That also in subsection 2.5, which deals with individual capital investments intended for sale in 2004 and 2005, in relation to each type of investment, only the indicative selling methods are defined. We estimate that this is enough because, after all, there are some book values that exist as the value of capital in individual non-economic investments, and second, of course, are the contractual values that will be recovered upon the sale of this capital. It certainly seeks to ensure that at least this book value is fully guaranteed, but also the negotiators and it is also the interest that will also definitively determine the individual value. The review is comprehensive, but as has already been said today, it would be as soon as possible to accede to or amend the financing law, so that the review is in good time and is, as far as necessary, an integral part of both the state budget and the relevant acts when we are talking about the law on the implementation of the budget. We will also fully support the decree, as proposed, with all the annexes. This, of course, suggests that Members also define themselves positively to the amendment tabled in terms of the regulation of property matters between the National Museum in Ljubljana, as has already been the oral opinion, the positive opinion of the government or the responsible people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u206	Thank you very much. And Peter Levich for the position of the text. He's quitting. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Orderly as reported and present. Dr. Bernick, you have 33 seconds. Dr. Bernick, 33 seconds. Thank you. Franci Rokavec. No, no, no. France Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. Well, I agree with the opening statement by the Chairman of the Finance Committee that the proposal is poorly prepared to be a type of flaw. However, I would also mention that the proposed amendments do not solve the problem, as this is a wrong approach to the whole problem. I would like to explain this approach in just one instance, in the third chapter, where the real estate sale programme is concerned. This is where you see the system, I don't know, it's not the trainees themselves, but the system is so focused. The lower the item, the more accurate it is, or proven, it is. Just an example. Here we have a table review of real estate sales, which, as far as vehicles are concerned, quote: "Renault R4, 1992 year, will be sold for 40,000 tolars. That's too bad. Renault R4, 1992, for 20,000 tolars." And so on. All this, gentlemen, is in the fabric of the National Assembly, which we deal with with with all seriousness. At the same time, of course, if I go forward, and touch the Ministry of Health a little bit, it also says that they will sell three cars, namely Laguna, but these are a little bit more expensive, which are 350 thousand tolars, because it is the year 1994, 1995, etc. Very transparent, wonderful. Then one compares what the ministry will do with three cars and goes looking for other, including these budget documents. Under investments under item 22.13 "investment" says the explanation where 300 million tolars in three years are 300 million tolars, but only this is stated, quote: "Buy new equipment, replace technologically obsolete and obsolete equipment, restore facades, purchase chairs, desks, computers, means of transport and technological modernisation are incubated." Here, nothing, how many new vehicles and so on; not a whole number, but just new vehicles by brand. If we look at the whole matter further, we know that there are so many service vehicles at the Ministry of Health that, for example, there is also a government advisor, a deputy secretary, a deputy secretary and so on. Since all gentlemen, you know this is against the rules of the state administration. Nevertheless, one would be interested in whether this new purchase is about some of the new developments that other undersecretaries, advisers, and the like will receive. Next. With this item, as I said 300 million, it is interesting that this item grows every year. In 2002, investments in the old areas of the Ministry of Health were 5 65 million, next year 96 million, in 2005 116 million. That would be nice and right if the government or the government were not already planning to sell Stefan 5. Because the Ministry of Health, like some other ministries, is preparing new premises in Ljubljana, a whole new, twice-large one, and is planning to sell where Stefanova 5 will be sold for 500 million. I don't understand that logic. Investments in these premises are growing every year, but we all know that these premises will be sold in two years. This, of course, is a trifle to calculate that the rooms on Stefan 5 will be sold at a price of 300 thousand tolars per square meter. In last year, however, the ministry also acquired old spaces in the immediate vicinity of Stefan 5, namely in Nebetičnik, 500 thousand tolars per square meter. So we're going to sell 300 grand, and we're going to sell older or older or worse, and the ministry bought 500 grand a square meter. Of course, we do not know, anywhere in the documents, from government documents, where the balance sheet is located in the newly purchased space in the skyscraper. We don't know. And also by what procedure and, of course, by what key they were bought. Indeed, in 2002 we do not see in any government plan that the State intends to purchase additional premises for the purpose of expanding the administration at the Ministry of Health. Gentlemen! You're very good at showing the old crevices we're going to sell. Right by the year, by the stamp, etc. How this 300 million will be spent is wrapped in fog, we don't know anything. I think that's very bad. The material, which of course we cannot evaluate, from what we have, we can only conclude that it is, as our southern neighbours say, 'for dark jobs'. So we don't know what's going to happen to these rooms, why they're investing in these rooms, even the new equipment on Stefan 5, because if the rooms are sold, then the old equipment probably doesn't happen. Nor do we know where or how these 300 million will be depreciated, if we hope to invest 300 million, for old space in the skyscraper we have given 200 million, so that it will be 500 million and we plan so much to survive the government's sales of these premises. So only in the last three years are we, or the government will invest in these premises as much as it will get for the sale of these premises, for sale and investment, which therefore does not mean any additional value. I would like some explanations on this subject, if you have them, or, above all, investments in these spaces under 2.9.1.3 apply only to Stephano's 5 or also to Stefan's 1, which is the object of the skyscraper. And whether a planned sale that has been assessed by government services to 500 000, where, of course, it does not specify exactly what, or also includes spaces in the skyscraper, or where the spaces in the skyscraper are misled, or in which the balance sheet is shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u208	Thank you. Just Bevk. He's quitting. He wants the word "governance"? Please. You have the floor. Secretary of State, Mr. Anton Zunič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u209	Dear Members, honourable Members, honourable President! Let me first try to explain as briefly as possible the part of the proposed decision on the 2004 and 2005 national financial and real estate programme relating to capital shares. The aim of privatisation for the country is to affirm public interest in privatisation through the introduction of modern corporate principles, both in companies and in banks owned by the country, which is of course in the interest of all owners and not only owners, but also business partners, commissioners and employees in these companies and banks. In each case of privatisation, the government will take into account the need to include the ownership process as a factor in the development of the Slovenian economy and the development of the financial market. Let me explain. We must choose such strategic partners that will be able not only to reduce costs but, above all, to contribute to the improvement of the quality of services and business processes, which provide a strategy for the competitive advantage of an individual undertaking or bank, not only in domestic markets but also in external markets. In short, the strategic partner we choose must recognise himself in the long-term development of an individual company or bank, in this way investing in business modernisation as well as in the transfer of the latest business technologies, improving the economy and profitability, maintaining a leading market position, as well as preparing for competition and raising the professional level of employment and improving access to funding sources. By doing so, especially with the latter, we will at the same time promote the development of the financial market in line with European experience and common European guidelines. The government also encourages restructuring and consolidation processes, especially when it is possible to achieve the optimum objectives of the state-owned property process in areas that are not subject to competition. The aim of the State is to provide such legal instruments that will also enable private companies to invest in public services, including particularly interesting public services such as energy, telecommunications and public environmental services. The State must take into account in public services all mechanisms that allow the State to maintain its public benefit intact or intact. Legally, these are mechanisms, through the legal framework of the concession act and the Law on Economic Public Services. Economically, this is a mechanism that allows for market competition activities in those parts of the business that are not exposed to the market, and this makes it possible to do so through macroeconomic models that replace the effectiveness of market mechanisms. The ownership process is transparent through the publication of the sales programme and through the tender system. Finally, ownership is also an important source of income in the budget of the country to be used in reducing existing public debt and reducing the costs of public debt financing and management, with the aim of directly increasing the sustainability of the public financial balance. The achievement of a possible purchase price depends not only on the supply of our capital shares but also on the demand for certain capital investments. Of course, they are also the subject of economic cycles. All of this, of course, at times also entails a substantial privatisation process, but of course we must not sit on some time pressure and therefore try to make similar mistakes at the earliest possible time in privatisation processes as they have obviously happened elsewhere. The basic objective of the use of the purchase, which will be derived from privatisation, will also be in the future in such a public debt reduction process, which ensures long-term maximum fiscal effects, while taking into account monetary effects and the effects on the domestic banking and financial system due to the impact on key macroeconomic aggregates such as: reducing debt servicing budget expenditure - while obviously reducing interest rates, creating nominal interest rates in the long term - is to develop the financial market, further reducing inflation, further reducing domestic interest rates, immunising against financial risks. This is what is generally necessary, in my view, after today's debate. In particular, all the proposals put forward here will be taken into account in future government activities, and we fully agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u210	Thank you, Secretary of State. This was a debate between Members and Members. In line with the first point of Article 71, since there is still some time left, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it? Please raise your hand, the one you want. So, colleague Aloys Sok and Sasha Pec. I'm giving you five minutes. Please. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u211	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, fellow Members and Members! So, according to established practice, I would like to ask a representative of the government one question. On page 23 of this Decision, the sale of Talum, a share company, is envisaged. The public company Eles, which owns 100 % of the country, owns 80% of Talum, a share company. Sales were foreseen, sales completed in November 2003, and after this proposal, which we now have here, it is clear that since sales were not made in 2003, sales are planned in 2005. But I would like to know if I can, of course, get an answer to that question. We were able to read in the paper a few weeks ago that Talum's sale was stopped. It was stopped because of the requirements of two of the tenderers who submitted a binding offer, namely the domestic consortium Sinal and Magyar Aluminium. In this regard, I would like to ask a question and get an answer as to why the sales commission, said to be led by Minister Kopač himself, excluded Swiss entrepreneur Glencore Internatinal AG, who even offered 5 billion higher purchases than the two companies selected by the Commission and finally submitted binding offers. I also ask, is there anything planned for this sale, or purchase by the domestic consortium Sinal, from the 10 billion created profits that this company is supposed to create in recent years, that it has been stored for purchase in particular? Such articles have appeared in the media, and I wonder how the government has reacted to these records, or does it have any information that might reject them or possibly confirm them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u212	Thank you. I propose that the debaters speak first and then the government's response. Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u213	I would also like you to respond more specifically to the dilemma raised in the context of the presentation of the positions of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, in relation to your last part of the implementation or performance, when you say that in the coming periods of the position and different views you will try to take into account in the preparation of the following concepts for the sale of state property. As far as the banks are concerned, of course, the next period will be no longer, because the fact is that this government has sold the New Bank of Ljubljana and is now selling the New Bank of Maribor, so to speak that such matters will be taken into account only in the coming periods is irrelevant, because in the coming periods we will no longer have anything to sell from the bonds issued for the rehabilitation of banks. But I want your answer. Today I claim here that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is working illegally. It does not respect the decisions of the National Assembly, so I will tell you once again, in 1994, when the Constitutional Law on Succession Issues was adopted, this National Assembly adopted a decision stipulating precisely that banks would be privatised on the basis of law. This guardian was then introduced by the National Assembly precisely because of the value of the rehabilitation, which was 400 billion Slovenian tolars. And with an argument that was later successfully implemented through the central bank, that recovery was successful, and that the key role of banking in Slovenia, as promoter of individual, physical and legal transactions at home and abroad, could be launched. This, of course, recognised the Bank of Slovenia's positive recovery. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has confirmed that the sale of banks in our country will require law. And that's not the law. I have already warned about the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, and I ask here today: Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia violate the acts adopted in the framework of the National Assembly? I have forwarded all these documents to you both to the Ministry and to the Constitutional Court and to the seat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There was a negative response everywhere, that they agreed to it, and that they had no basis for it. So, the fact is that this National Assembly, such as the one that approved the resolution that approved the green light of Slovenian banking, demanded this and that the then Mitja Gaspari committed himself to such a case as the Minister of Finance today as the Governor of the National Bank. So, I want to answer from you: Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia violate the acts adopted by the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u214	Thank you. And France Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u215	Thank you. I did not get an answer to the question, but I would like to repeat or explain some things, i.e. the question. One more time. Large funds are invested each year in the premises of the Ministry of Health. In 2002, 65 million, 100 million last year and 116 million more will be invested in 2005. At the same time, government services are planning to sell these premises because the ministry will move and they will recover from the sale, accounting for 500 million, which is about 300,000 per square metre. Last November, however, the government replaced Trnovo Hospital and acquired an old space in a skyscraper, 460 square metres, when it sold Trnovo Hospital. However, since there is no evidence of government documents anywhere, there is no indication that the government would have intended to purchase these premises, no government plan had this in place last year, found, where the balance sheet is now located, or where the property of the skyscraper is recorded in what balance sheet? It's just one crumb of what's the problem with all the material. Actually, after all these years, we don't have a balance sheet. It is not right for the government to work in such a way that, in fact, we learn about buying space from the public, perhaps the government has also learned about it from the public, not from the media. And we don't even know who the owner is now. Where is this balance sheet? And these rooms are supposed to be sold in two years. What rooms and how, at what cost? We know that spaces in the skyscraper were replaced or purchased at a value of 500 thousand tolars per square metre. So, once again, I'd like to ask you for an answer, how is it that every year more invests in the premises that are going to be sold? On what basis did the government acquire space in the skyscraper? And where are they now, in what balance sheet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u216	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Mitja Valic, Director of the Joint Government Services Service, to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The answer to Mr Cukjati's question is this: The government's information portal this week publishes a proposal for a financial valuation of the real estate acquisition strategy for the needs of the state administration for the period up to 2007. And this financially evaluated strategy, the proposal for a financial rated procurement strategy does not provide for the sale of Stefan in the Stefanova 235 complex during this period. We are aware that certain financial resources have been invested in this complex in the past. The question is, of course, given the fact that I am not aware of all the details of whether funds amounting to 65, 100 and 116 million tolars have actually been invested in all these financial years. It can be specified that investments during this period have not been made because I believe that you have mentioned in your implementation the planned funds to go into this restoration or improvement of the spatial conditions of employees in the Ministry of Health. However, I stress that the sale of Stefan in complex 235 in the proposal for a strategy is not foreseen for the future period of time. These premises are intended to be owned by the Republic of Slovenia and are used to address the spatial needs of other state administrations. As far as your question is concerned about entering a completed purchase, or changing these premises. In my view, any purchase of business premises, equipment or other assets must be shown in the balance sheet of the Ministry concerned, or the competent authority. Each departmental authority has its own real estate balance sheet. In accordance with the Accounting Act, any purchase of equipment must enter into the relevant balance sheet, which shall be the subject of a balance sheet of basic assets. And I believe that's what happened in this case. However, the statement of actual entry into this balance sheet of tangible fixed assets is reflected in the law, or at the time of consideration of the Act on the Final Account of the State Budget for each financial year. If you're satisfied with the answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u218	Does he still want a representative of the government? Mr. Zunich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u219	I would answer Mr Saš Pečet's question about the legality of the sale of shares in banks in recent years. From 1994 to this point, the sale of the bank was legally carried out. The legal basis for the sale of banks was in the law on public finances and in the law on the implementation of the budget. Whether the privatisation of banks has already been concluded or not, this second part of the question, I can peacefully answer that the privatisation of banks has not yet been concluded. The new Maribor credit bank is on the list that you have in your ruling today. Also the Post Bank of Slovenia. While the privatisation process of the New Ljubljana Bank was halted last fall, the country remained owner of 35.7%, EBRD 5%, KAD and SOD each 5%, and KBC 34% and minority shareholders 15%. This ownership structure ensures the further development of the bank and the support of the strategy in the same direction as I initially tried to explain in the shortest possible way. Allow me to answer another question, this is a question about Talum. I would not mention who was the candidate, whose partners were the candidates of this company, because I am not quite sure if I am responsible for this right now, if I can mention all those who were candidates for privatisation, but I must say the following. The Talum was stopped for exactly the reason I mentioned in the introduction. It is an economic cycle which, in fact, in this year, has caused the Talum to be in inappropriately different economic circumstances, as it has been in the last three years, up to four years. On the one hand, it is a known, changed situation on the electricity market and, on the other hand, a cycle in the field of aluminium production. One and the other, of course, translates privatisation in a way, and we have proposed that we postpone it for one year and, as you can see in the decree, we postpone it for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u220	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u221	The Ministry asked me if I was satisfied with the answer. I'm not happy, especially two things. Regarding the sale of the Department's premises on Stephano 5, the government could have changed the sales plan this morning, I don't know. She could have suddenly changed it, I don't know. This allows for an opportunity. As far as the skyscrapers are concerned, I don't think you're right because the ministry, the individual ministry, is the owner of state property outside the Ministry. In the case of the Ministry of Health, he is a manager, so to speak, of health institutions. However, the manager of the premises of the Ministry itself is the government service of the common services. We both know that, and because of that, you would somehow expect a person to know where the space is entered, a new space acquired in the skyscraper. This division of governance, you know, is also due to this establishment that there is no spillage of premises, so that it does not occur to the Ministry to acquire premises at the expense of the sale or surrender of premises of institutions. That's why this distinction is, and we all know it is. Whether she was broken here or not, others will probably assess that. I'm not gonna judge that. I just want to know where this property is, where these residential areas are registered, which balance sheet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u222	Excuse me. In view of that, Mr President, never look at [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u223	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u224	And I always sign up for the word and never call. [[...]] Will you give me your word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u225	Don't take your word for it. Following Article 71, I reopened the debate, you applied for the debate, the government replied. I also conclude the debate with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u226	You just let me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u227	We're moving to second reading. We have tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to delete Articles 2, 3 and 6 and open the debate. First of all, Article 2 because an amendment has been tabled. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, we'd like to amend everything. This is true to delete completely all articles, but because of our Rules of Procedure we can only delete 2, 3 and 6, which are so-called technically open. In fact, all the articles are blurry and are not worth considering. Why? Dear colleagues and colleagues! There won't be any news what I'm about to say. You have heard this several times and this is the fact that the Slovenian Government does not respect the second paragraph of Article 146 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which clearly and without a doubt states that the state shows its assets in the balance sheet. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has never presented the balance sheet to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Not just that. We also know it doesn't exist. In the 2002 accounts of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors, which first addressed this issue, found that the majority of ministries, most of them, say more than half of them, had not been able to verify that they had not been able to verify what would normally be the situation at the beginning of the year and the situation at the end of the year, in accordance with the financial statements, that they had not been able to establish in any case. So they decided the easiest way, they said, we can't give an opinion. With this deletion, I suggest that this National Assembly also tells the Slovenian government, the executive, we cannot give you any opinion. On the basis of these documents, on the basis of the questions raised by my colleagues and the answers we have received, it is clear to everyone who wants to understand that this is not a serious action. If this National Assembly wants to achieve any effect on this basis, it is to say that if we are to have such a document and such a proposal regarding the availability of state property, for which we are responsible, even before taxpayers, we should adopt these amendments today, with these amendments the decree makes no sense, so they cannot comply with it. When will we have the property? Only when minimum transparency is ensured. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! I listened very carefully to you when you spoke in your opening remarks, so that the government would want to achieve its goals in accordance with modern corporate principles. Modern corporate principles. Doesn't that sound good? Is it not a modern corporate principle that such a thing is decided on the basis of a balance sheet, a clear review? My colleague, the leader of the Group of Members of Liberal Democracy, was surprised to learn that there are some sectors that do not have a price. Yeah, well, if we had one, we shouldn't believe it. We don't know because it's never been examined. We also do not know if it has ever been done, as it would have been in accordance with modern corporate principles. So, on behalf of modern corporate principles, so in agreement with the government, we have the same goals, we cannot support your proposal, and until the Slovenian Government complies consistently with Article 146(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia, this National Assembly may adopt no decision, no decision allowing the executive authority to dispose of the assets of the Slovenian State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u229	Thank you.I conclude the debate on Article 2, the amendment proposal to delete Article 2. I will put this amendment to the vote. I ask all my colleagues and colleagues to come to their posts and we will decide on this. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 10 votes to 40. [[For the vote was 10]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. I am putting an amendment to Article 3 into the debate to delete Article 3. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 3 and moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the amendment proposal to delete Article 3. We're voting please. There are 58 of us present, 13 votes against 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment didn't get any support. In addition to the amendment to Article 6, the proposal amends to delete Article 6. The word is wanted by colleague Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u230	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I had not received an answer earlier from the Secretary of State, he replied to something that I had not asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u231	We're done with that debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u232	However, Article 6 speaks to the President about the country's list of capital investments for sale and, of course, the company Tallum is also a shareholder. Sales are foreseen in 2005, which is because sales failed in 2003 and without me taking part in the sale. Therefore, sales failed because companies that made binding offers demanded a fixed price of electricity, we could read it in the media, and the government of course did not agree to it. I ask you again why the Swiss trader Glencore International's offer, which was rejected by the government sales commission led by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Jasna Kalšek in mid-May, was not accepted. So if you can't answer this question today, I will also be satisfied if you answer me in writing, but I would like to know what the reasons were for this, because if the records are credible in the media, then this company offered for 5 billion higher purchases and the government expected to sell 13 billion Slovenian tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u233	Secretary of State, please. Mr. Zunich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u234	Respectable. I think I tried to answer from a different angle earlier. I pointed out earlier that I would not mention companies because they were candidates for this privatisation because I am sure I should not mention them. Of course, I have explained the matter from exactly the same point of view as Mr Sok has now debated. If you remember, I mentioned the price of electricity. The price of electricity has changed so much due to droughts and weather changes in the world this year, and the electricity market has changed so much that the conditions of both companies, such as TALUM, are substantially changed, and also from the point of view of the potential owner. This was, in fact, one of the important or crucial reasons for my opinion why this privatisation failed this time. However, if there have been more candidates, I have to go back to that introductory text in which I said that the purchase is an extremely important element in the decision-making process, but of course it is not the only one. An important or key element is how an individual privatisation company will be put in the context of a strategic partner in its strategy in the long term. Whether he will support this company in the long term through all the elements mentioned in the introduction, which related to investments, to the development of employees in individual companies, to the long-term survival of each company. In doing so, we call on potential strategic partners to be willing to accept these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u235	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on Article 6 and brings us to a decision. The proposal amends that paragraph 6 be deleted to make a decision. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 12 votes against 46. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment didn't get any support. This concludes the debate on articles and amendments We are moving on to a decision on the decision on the sale of state and real property programme for 2004 and 2005 to a vote. Procedurally, Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, pursuant to Article 65, paragraph 2, I declare obstruction. We will not participate in the adoption of this postponement. The reasons are clear. Such access to state property is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is not in accordance with the Accounting Act, is not in accordance with modern corporate principles and is, after all, confused with common sense. We don't want to participate, the responsibility weighs on the great coalition. Thank you very much. We're leaving the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u237	Thank you. France Cuckoo. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u238	Gentlemen! You can laugh, but it's not a joke. After 12 years of Slovenian freedom, we do not have a balance sheet of state property. That's why we're leaving the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u239	Thank you. Please turn off the microphone. My friend Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u240	Thank you. At least this time, you gave me your word. I am joining the fellow Members of New Slovenia and the Social Democrats, but I am not solely blaming the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A good part of the blame is borne by this national assembly, Mr President, because you do not allow the debate on the answers to be held. If the government responds to something and within three months gives two different answers to what the legal basis for the privatisation of banks is, then do not allow the Member to remind him of this duality of the government or twice the different answer, you will not give him another word. This prevents quality debate and the sale of state property, and in such conditions it is not really possible to carry out its work in a quality manner. If this is the fault of the late meeting of the National Assembly, agree on it at the College and set other hours. From this title and from the non-conclusion of the sale programme of state property, we also declare obstruction in the national party because we do not want to participate in such work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u241	Thank you. We can move on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting for a ruling. There are 47 of us present, in favour of 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision on the sale of financial and real property has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We note that we will receive the harmonisation amendments to the 3rd item of the agenda at any time. Please don't go far. I'm going to suspend the session in 10 minutes so that the amendments can be split at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u242	We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005. Would a representative of the government, the secretary of state, like to speak after the harmonisation amendment? No, no, no. Anybody else want a word? After the harmonisation amendments. We will first discuss and decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 53, in accordance with Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure. Anybody want a word? A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. Look, this is a very unilateral attitude of the government, and if this amendment is voted, it is also a unilateral attitude towards the law on the implementation of the budget of this National Assembly. In this ZIPRO, which we will adopt today, a whole series of solutions that have been adopted are similar to the amendment to Article 53. I'll just give you one. In Article 51, we have explicitly stated that next year the government will not submit a draft budget for 2006, which is contrary to the first paragraph of Article 13a of the Public Finance Act, which explicitly states that the government will submit to the National Assembly, together with the draft budget for the following financial year, also the draft budget for the year following that. And so on. Look, I think we'll be very inconsistent, and we'll be very unilateral if we follow this view. It's a misunderstanding with the building law. This is what I agree with the legislative service, not the lack of alignment with this year's budget, with the 2004 and 2005 budgets. Secondly, the secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Kamnareva, replied to the outstanding question raised by colleague Puck that this amendment had no financial implications for the state budget. And it's unacceptable that we are going to this story and this game in the National Assembly. And I propose that this harmonisation amendment be rejected. Because it has no direct connection to ZIPRO. If we accept this, of course, then we will be very inconsistent and very unilateral. Above all, we will give the congregations a message that we do not want to come across from them even halfway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u244	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The amendments tabled are based on two different articles of your Rules of Procedure. Only an amendment that has financial implications is based on an article that talks about the budget. The second amendment you spoke about, which relates to the building law, is based on the article referred to by the representative of the secretariat for legislation, assessed it as inappropriate and inconsistent with the applicable system law and was therefore followed by the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u246	Thank you. I'm obliged to warn you before we decide on him. Article 9 140 states: "If the harmonisation amendment is not adopted, the legislative procedure shall be terminated." The consequences of this are known to everyone. Then we have no law and consequently no budget. This is what Rule 9 states. 140th Article of Colleague Rokavec, you have one more word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u247	It will be interesting how the government will interpret other provisions of this law, which are also non-systematic and which also interfere with other sectoral legislation. One more thing, in 2001, this National Assembly raised VAT by law on budget implementation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u248	Thank you. I conclude the debate on the harmonisation amendment to Article 53 and move on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 37 votes against 11. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 11.]] The amendment was accepted. I am moving on to the harmonisation amendment to Article 38 on the basis of Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll read the warning here, too. 164th Rule of the Rules of Procedure states: "The law on the implementation of the budget must be in line with the state budget adopted. If the proposed law is not in line with the adopted state budget, the government must propose a harmonisation amendment to the draft law on the implementation of the budget." It's done. "If the harmonisation amendment is not adopted, the state budget shall also be deemed not to have been adopted." We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. Comrade Pucko, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will vote against this amendment. And for a very simple reason. The State Secretary made it very clear that the article had no financial implications. First time. Another time. This amendment, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is prepared on the basis of the legislative and legal service, and this opinion is based on the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy, which opposes this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u250	Comrade Pucko, we're talking about the amendment to Article 38, which says, "The second paragraph is deleted." Would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u251	I admire that you didn't interrupt me immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u252	I leave the word to the end. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members of Parliament present, 38 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 16.]] The harmonisation amendment has been adopted. And now we are going to make a full decision on the law. Vote explanation, colleague Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u253	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. I will vote in favour of the proposed laws and at the same time express my protest at the abuse of the procedure afforded to colleagues in the government and in the national assembly. If the legislative and legal service has indeed drawn up its position on the basis of the opinion of a ministry which is of any interest that the proposed article does not apply, then this is an unfair intervention by a branch of authority in another branch of government. And a few colleagues and colleagues, if the interpretation of what you said here today were valid, all today's debate on the amendment of colleague Trofenik was irrelevant. It's not like that. But since I want the system to work, I will support the amendment, and the procedure is not an honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u254	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Explanation of voice. We are against this law, we have declared ourselves against this law and we will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u256	Thank you. My friend Franci Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. I regret that the majority in this National Assembly did not listen to the financial monarch of Minister Marble. To this day, I have had very much respect for him and hoped that he is indeed a minister who understands financial problems and who is prepared to fight problems and issues until the end of the procedure. No, he gave the ultimatum: "Do I resign if you accept these amendments, or if you reject them, this country is actually saved." That's not right from the minister, that's not the mode of government. The Minister must face the problems that his area has, of course, and I will vote against and expect, and I am sure that it is not wise for this National Assembly to save the Minister at the expense of the Slovenian municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u258	Thank you. Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u259	I will vote against this law. And I won't regret anything like the others. This is a comedy that is happening and does not belong here in Parliament and let us vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u260	We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We decide on the law on the implementation of the 2004 and 2005 budgets in full. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 41 votes against 14. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I conclude the third item of the agenda and also the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your cooperation and good night.
