ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nice greetings to all, including to the government representative, the Secretary of State. I ask all of you to take your seats. I will begin the 33rd extraordinary session of the National Assembly. Before we begin the 33rd extraordinary meeting convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Rule 60 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you first of all which of our colleagues and colleagues are detained due to other obligations and will not attend today's short meeting: Ašič, Battelli, Bevk, Dr Brejc, Cimperman, Celigoj. For the beginning of the meeting, my fellow mags. Petty Officer, Germich, Horvat, Jakič, Kacin, Kangler, Kavtičnik, Kelemina, mag. Kramberger, colleagues of Jerca Mrzel and Irma Pavlinič Krebs, colleague of Peterle, Podobnik, colleague of Pozsončeva, colleagues of Pukšič, Rupar, Sok, Spindler, colleague of Ana Marija Tisovic, colleagues of Trophynik, Weber and Fabjan. First, we will move on to the establishment of the agenda for the 33rd extraordinary session. The draft agenda shall be drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. You've received it with a reference to the session. I have not received any proposals on the agenda, so we will now decide on the agenda. Please, procedurally, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask you on what basis this agenda has been prepared, since it is, in accordance with Rule 142 of our Rules of Procedure, a tax ruling on when the law can be dealt with in a reduced procedure. There are four specific cases and this proposal does not coincide with either of these four. I would like to know if you can explain to me, on what basis, within the framework of Rule 142 of our Rules of Procedure, this meeting has been convened and on what basis do you propose that this law be dealt with in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u3	First of all, as far as today's meeting is concerned. You know that this is the request of 30 colleagues and colleagues who have this business right - they have established it, and I am obliged to refer to it. As far as your question concerning the procedure for examining the law is concerned, let me inform you of what you already know that such a decision has been taken by the College. Among the reasons given and justified by this procedure is the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. This was the decision of the College. The Group of Members with this right then requested that the procedure be reconsidered. And we will do so today in order to clear up all procedural concerns so that the National Assembly can decide on substantive issues. Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Otherwise, I do not know on what basis the college so decided, because article 142 on the shorter procedure states: "The bill may propose that the National Assembly consider the draft law after a reduced procedure if it concerns less difficult amendments and amendments to the law." I guess it's not like that. "The termination of the validity of each law or of its individual provisions, less difficult harmonisation of the law with other laws or with the law of the European Union, and amendments and additions to the law relating to proceedings before the Constitutional Court or to the decision of the Constitutional Court." But it's not a change and a complement, but it's a new marriage. So this does not coincide with the rules we have adopted and are in force under our Rules of Procedure. I'd like to see if you can explain this one more time. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u5	I just did it, but there's no reason I wouldn't do it again. Article 142, last indent, states that due to proceedings before the Constitutional Court, laws may be dealt with in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The College voted on this and decided by a majority, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that the National Assembly would decide on a reduced procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members has the opportunity to object to such a decision by the College; and it has also done so. The main body that can make a final decision on the procedure is the National Assembly - which will be decided today by decision. Dr. Bayuk's colleague. Besides, I don't think this debate is going to go away. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u6	I'm sorry, Mr. President, we obviously don't understand each other. 142. Article 142 in the last part of the first paragraph states that, following a reduced procedure, a law may be dealt with in the case of amendments and additions to the law relating to proceedings before a Constitutional Court or a Constitutional Court decision. But we have no change or amendment of the law, but a new law. So I cannot understand and I would ask if the legal service of our house would explain how this proposal is now on the agenda, amending or supplementing the law on the procedure. It's not a supplement and it's not a change, it's a new marriage. So we have no basis in our business to deal with this; that is my opinion. Please, if the job could explain this. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u7	Look, there was a pretty lively controversy at the college about this. [[A representative of your parliamentary group was also present.]] . There were different views, and the Rules of Procedure also stipulated that by qualified majority of colleges then decided on the procedure - and did so. Since the various views on the college were already different, the group of Members who objected to such a decision decided to reach a re-decision in the sole business way - the decision-making of the national assembly. And now the National Assembly will conclude this. That is why we have such a agenda and will first decide on the agenda and then on the content of the requirement. There's no debate, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. Please, it just has to be a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u8	Thank you very much! I suggest that the law enforcement department give an explanation as to why this is even possible. I really don't get it, and I think no matter what the college has decided, finally our colleagues are just people and they can be wrong. And I think it's a big mistake and we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u9	Well, Dr. Bajuk, as you know, whenever there are initiatives from the bench to get an opinion from the legal and legislative service, I always decide if it is so possible to get such an opinion. In this case, I really don't see the reason for this, because we talked about it in college, there was the job, and it gave its position. Thus, in today’s knowledge of all the points of view of the problem, the National Assembly may decide on the procedure. First, a colleague of Dr. Bajuk, a colleague and a colleague must decide on the agenda. You received it with a reference. I propose that we also decide on it, the agenda on which there is only one item on the agenda. Please, if you check your voting devices, we will vote on the agenda. We're voting. 58 present, 42 and 11 up. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] The agenda of the 33rd extraordinary meeting was adopted. At 1. Agenda items, the only items of the agenda, we have a hearing on the request of the group of Members to decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law on implementation 8. The points of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia shall be read after the summary procedure. As I said earlier, the President's College is in session 19. 9. In 2003, it decided that that proposal for a law should be examined after the shortening of the procedure. In the course of the course of business, a group of 18 Members with a first-signed colleague of Cukjati requested that, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10, of our Rules of Procedure, the College of State decide on this decision. I ask, does colleague Tsukati - colleague Janša present the position of the initiators? Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of New Slovenia believe that the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision on so-called deleted should be dealt with on a regular basis and subject to public hearing. For this reason, we oppose the decision of the College and, in accordance with Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that, in the process of examining and adopting the law, the National Assembly decide - first of all, we consider that the reduced procedure in this case does not have any commercial basis. We also believe that a thorough debate is necessary in the law on the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court on the so-called deleted ones, which does not allow for a reduced procedure, because the debate is necessary because the law, as proposed, is expressly contrary to the first paragraph of Article 155 of the Constitution and has a retroactive effect. 155. Article of the Constitution states, I quote: "Laws, other regulations and general acts cannot have an effect to the contrary, only the law can provide that individual provisions have an effect to the contrary if this requires public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired." We believe that the reason for the "public benefit" in this case is not given; on the contrary, it is a public injury, as the law equates and throws into the same basket some perfectly justified cases with a multitude of completely unjustifiable ones. The debate is also necessary because of the financial consequences. The bill's itself, it is said, the government is talking about the millions of direct financial consequences. It also acknowledges that, at the moment, it is not possible to assess the indirect financial implications, as far as possible - and these are already announced - of making claims for damages. It's estimated that this place is worth billions. Nor do we today accept the arguments of those who claim that the decision of the Constitutional Court on so-called deleted must be applied without discussion, without serious discussion, immediately and without delay, and for the State and taxpayers in an extremely harmful manner, while in 2000 the Constitutional Court’s decision on the electoral system was publicly and loudly opposed and voted several times against it or as they said: according to their conscience. I would remind respected colleagues and colleagues who have requested today's extraordinary meeting that they have never so far requested such a meeting when it comes to dismissed workers, victims of war violence, veteran wars for Slovenia. In this National Assembly, we discussed for years the minimum compensation for widows and victims of war for Slovenia and so on and so on. Therefore, we propose that the National Assembly reject the decision of the College and allow for a serious debate on this law, which will have very serious political and financial implications.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-08-SDZ3-Izredna-33.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. You have presented the content of the request of the Group of Members, you are also the only one who has the right to perform on this agenda item. The 10th indent of Article 21 provides that the National Assembly shall now decide on the decision of the College without discussion and explanation of vote. So we will proceed to the decision, please check your voting devices, on the following decision: a proposal for a law - I ask for your attention in the Chamber - on the enforcement of the eighth point of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is being considered following a reduced procedure. This Decision will now be voted on by the National Assembly. Please. 61 in attendance, 40 in and 17 in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 17.]] This decision was taken by the National Assembly. The bill is to remind me that the College of the President of the National Assembly has put on the deadline for the month of October. I also conclude this agenda item and the 33rd extraordinary meeting with this information. Thank you very much.
