ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and dear colleagues! The hour is after 2 p.m. We will start the 23rd session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I called on her on the basis of Rule 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I will first inform you which colleagues and colleagues are not present at the meeting due to other obligations. These are colleagues: Battelli, Čebulj, Čeligoj, Fabjan, Germič, Horvat, Jakič, Janša, Juri, Kangler, mag. Kramberger, Lavrinc, Partlich, Peterle, mag. Travel, colleagues Pucko, Pukšič, Tanko, Tarčon, Trophynik, Weber, mag. Vizjak, colleague of Orzmova and colleague Zlobec Lukič, apologized to colleague Alexander Merlo and Jožef Špindler - colleague Merlo. But for everyone else, it's as I said. I also invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to the 1st item of the agenda, to all other items of the agenda of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman to the 15th item, the representative of the Council of Justice and the Assembly of the Health Insurance Office to the 21st item. All those of you who are already in session, I welcome you once again! Colleagues and colleagues, we will first move on to the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. Proposal drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received on 14 February this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We'll talk about withdrawals first. I'll ask for your attention. Can I have everyone's attention? The Socialist Party Group proposes to the National Assembly to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investment in the NEK, its exploitation and decommissioning and a joint declaration on the signing of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investment in the NEK, its exploitation and degradation. Such a proposal, as it is said, was made by the Socialist Party's Group of Members and I ask whether any of the applicants would like to explain it. Please, colleague Kelemin, for the proposer. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President and respectable all together, welcome! The Social Democratic Party does not support the ratification of the Treaty between Slovenia and Croatia in relation to the nuclear power plant, because we believe that this Treaty is weak, harmful and not viable in practice. This is not only our opinion, which has been drawn up through history, we can say, the adoption of this document, but it is also an opinion of the society of nuclear experts in Slovenia or of nuclear experts in general. The legal position is also that this treaty is bad and harmful for Slovenia. The Fund for Decommissioning in Krk is also such an opinion, and Posavje is such an opinion, especially his people, regardless of what you have agreed recently. In short, we firmly believe that, as long as you confirm this ratification of this Treaty today, this Treaty remains weak and harmful to Slovenia. We will not mention this because we have already told hundreds of times where those points where this proposal is actually harmful to Slovenia are. But first of all, this raises the political question of what Slovenia will gain by ratifying this treaty. This is a fundamental question. And our firm belief in the Social Democratic Party is that it will gain nothing or lose much of its sovereignty over this facility and that, in general, the economic situation and economic damage in this area will be enormous. We are aware of the difficulties of the authorities, because we know that the breakup was a wrong move, in 1998, and that this will also lead to certain consonants on the Croatian side. We firmly believe that Croatia has studied the provisions of this Treaty very thoroughly, and that, if these provisions, in this Treaty, would be as bad for it as they say in the Assembly, this treaty would never be ratified. That's a fact. And it is also known in advance that it is only political consequences and also, of course, economic consequences, so our parliamentary group simply cannot support ratification and we are more committed to it, regardless of the fact that the Slovenian government has made a big mistake with the disconnection, which will cause Slovenia to suffer certain consequences, including financial consequences, that is a fact. However, we advocate that this matter be transparently clarified, if not otherwise, by arbitration in an international economic court or anywhere else. In short, as we say, we propose to withdraw this item from the agenda and also announce non-support for ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm guessing there's no one. Then I believe that there is no need for further explanation or justification for the proposal, so that the National Assembly will decide on the withdrawal proposal. It is a proposal to withdraw the point concerning the Nucleararka Krška and the ratification of the Treaty between Slovenia and Croatia. I will therefore put to the vote the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda. We vote on the motion to withdraw. The objection will be upheld, I have suspended the vote. Here was an objection, if the voting device is not working, given by my colleague Rupar - in two minutes I will interrupt the meeting and ask the services to check it out. It's okay now. There's another objection before we re-vote. Is there nothing wrong with the voting devices, the National Assembly may decide? There are no treaties to vote on. By re-applying to withdraw this item from the agenda to the vote. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda. I'm asking for peace in the hall! 53 present, 17 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal of fellow Members of Parliament Petan and Jerovska, the proposers of the bill to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship at first reading. Any of the candidates want a word? Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Following the 23rd meeting, when the bill was already included in the agenda of the meeting, we were informed by our colleague Petan that the Commission of the National Assembly for Relations with Slovenians, in place and around the world, would approach the drafting of a system law to regulate this area. This is an extremely important law which was introduced into the parliamentary procedure as early as 1998. And this law governs the type and scope of special rights and benefits enjoyed by Slovenians who have the status of a Slovenian without citizenship and the acquisition and loss of that status. According to some data, there are 360,000 such persons, so you do not need to be convinced of the importance of the matter of this law, and in some ways it is sad that it was not previously included in the legislative procedure and voted. However, since the Commission, we have such assurances, very serious work in the preparation of a more systematic law, we want to clear the way, by withdrawing this item from the agenda and later from the procedure, that the law governing the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship and other rights, as well as the status of these citizens, will be adopted as soon as possible. We're just suggesting that this point be removed from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u5	The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, colleague Barovic, for the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Although you know that this is a very pressing issue for our Member Group, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, in my reading and in the basic analysis of the law of which it is the author, I think that Mr Janez Podobnik, this law seems to have been suitable for consideration today. Therefore, I will tell my respectable colleagues and colleagues that I will not support the proposal to withdraw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u7	Any other parliamentary groups would like to clarify their views? [[None.]] Then I conclude this debate. We'll go to the vote. It is a proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law on the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship from the agenda. We're voting. We vote on the motion to withdraw. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. There were 55 colleagues and colleagues present, 45 against and 8 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I do not have any other motions for withdrawal, so we can go to the vote on the agenda in its entirety, of course with this decision that we have just taken. Please comment on the draft agenda as received, as amended. We're voting. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present, 40 for and 3 for. [[Forty members voted in favour.]] [[Against three members.]] I take it that the agenda for the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly is set. At 3 p.m., we turn to the first item of the agenda, which is questions from Members and Members. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, and until then I am adjourning the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u8	Colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers. Please take your seats. We'll continue the session. Can I ask for peace and order in the hall? I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please take your seats. It's 3:01 p.m. We'll continue the session. As we say, we're at 1. POINTS - QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Some ministers and ministers excused their absence. This is Dr. Gaber, Minister for Education, Science and Sports, Dr. Grizold, Minister for Defence, Mag. Mr Kovac, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Structural Policy and Regional Development, Dr Janez Potočnik, Minister without a Resource responsible for European Affairs, and Prime Minister General Mirko Bandelj. On questions of Members and Members, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will begin our agenda by hearing, on the basis of Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure, issues of opposition to which the Prime Minister, Mag. It's a robbery I've been saying good-bye to between us. And later, ministers and ministers, on questions of colleagues and colleagues. Let me remind you that a Member can ask no more than two questions, for which it has 3 minutes to answer the question and 5 minutes to ministers. Members and Members can complete the question, they have 2 minutes of time and the government has 3 minutes to reply. Please ask Dr. Miha Brac first to ask the Prime Minister a question. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! The Liberal Democrats, the United List, the DeSUS and the People's Party, as government coalitions say, have tabled a proposal for a constitutional law supplementing Article 90 of the Constitution. And the fourth paragraph of this proposal states: "The referendum shall not be admissible if the Constitutional Court finds that a referendum decision would affect human rights or fundamental freedoms or other constitutional values, or because of a referendum decision, would have grave consequences for the functioning of the State." I want to know: What does that mean? How does the government view this formulation of "hard-to-reparable consequences for the functioning of the country"? By the way, such a formulation reminds me of some other times, I think it is also undemocratic and non-European, but nevertheless, the government coalition has tabled. So please, Mr. Prime Minister, if he can say: What kind of laws could this be that, if the referendum were stopped, would, for example, have severe remedial effects on the functioning of the State? I fear that the government will include in such laws all that is appropriate to it in the light of current needs and may have a favourable impact on the country and adverse consequences for citizens. Here, in particular, I mean, as an example, of course, two laws or areas of marriage that have recently been of wide interest. First of all, it is a pension law that promises to be changed in the fall, at least so we can understand from the daily newspaper or from the reactions of the people. For example, the question involved is whether, say, the new pension legislation will also create a new methodology for the valorisation of pensions. A change in wage indexation has already been announced, which will take into account the European average, not domestic inflation, which results in pensioners still waiting for their raises and the government, according to its assessment, will determine percentages. Second of all, let's say what's with the recreation supplement. We hear that there will be no more recreation allowance or that there will be on the list of items to be cancelled. Other supplements, reduction of pension base. And of course, here we still have to mention tax legislation, which also has forecasts that it will change. In particular, we are referring to the strong taxation of real estate, the taxation of interest and capital gains. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you so much for asking, Dr. Brace. Please, mag. Robbery, Prime Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u11	How nice to meet you all! Mr Member, thank you very much for the question. Your question concerns the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution. With regard to this article, the Constitutional Commission has already taken a position, has briefly opened the procedure for amending Article 90 and has also taken certain positions or guidelines. However, it is to be expected that there will be further discussion in relation to Article 90, both within the Constitutional Commission, of course within the section. When we talk about Article 90, I would like to make it very clear that, as far as the government as well as the coalition are concerned, there is no doubt that it is very clear that it does not want to change or even reduce the standards of direct democracy achieved in Slovenia. You, Mr Member, of course know very well that Slovenia is, according to international assessments, at least as far as this standard is concerned, an assessment of the referendum practice, as well as the system itself at the summit between European countries and between countries, only Liechtenstein and Switzerland are ahead of it, and then Slovenia is in the next group, where Italy and Latvia are, all others have lower standards. Therefore, the fundamental problems we see in Article 90 are undoubtedly those related to the blocking of the legislative process, the high costs of implementing the referendums, the way in which the referendums are carried out in terms of very clear issues addressed in the context of the referendum. In short, however, those who make decisions at the referendum know what they are deciding and decide what they are deciding on, which and for which it is reasonable to decide. That they do not decide on professionally complicated matters, that they do not decide on matters for which it is certain that they are competent, that they decide and take responsibility both for the government and not for the last time for the national assembly. So these are fundamental objectives and these are fundamental considerations of change and, as you are very well aware, in this context, the proposed solutions are in the direction of legislative referendums and in the direction of substitution of the previous legislative referendum. However, these are proposals to be discussed. As regards the proposed limitations in the referendum decisions, which you are obviously of the farthest interest, and this is fully understandable, I would like to point out that the proposal that has been considered on the Constitutional Commission and which has been discussed and also adopted has been the proposed solution that the Constitutional Court is therefore the one that judges when the referendum is not admissible for consequences, so Parliament does not rule on the political majority, the current but on the Constitutional Court. In this context, I think your concern is over. However, I would like to make it very clear that, as far as the concrete changes that you have been talking about, at least as regards the pension law, it is considered that these topics, which require an ever-widening consensus, need prior coordination, not only between political parties, but also the social partners. And in this context, the government will act, the coalition will act, and I believe that the question is, I do not think that, in this short time frame, it is possible in Slovenia to prepare more radical changes to pension legislation. However, it is quite clear, and this is what the whole of Europe is dealing with at this time, including at the next summit of Europe, will discuss exactly the demographic issues and problems of Europe and systems in all European countries, in this context as well as the problems of both health reform and pension reform. And, of course, the deadline and time ahead of Europe as well as Slovenia is around 2008, 2010, this is the time in which the so-called "babyboom" generation is retired and then such solutions will be needed. Of course, I do not imagine, far from being able to solve such solutions in such a way as to make any such or similar changes in article 90 of the Constitution, it will take a very thorough discussion in society and the search for a national consensus.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u13	I thank you for your answers, although they were not perfect. In fact, I understand what the role of the Constitutional Court is, but I ask: What is the government's position or how does the government understand this formulation "in difficult circumstances"? I have listed two specific laws and I would like to hear a concrete answer whether the government will take the regressors or, as it is called, the recreational allowance or lower the pension base and so on. These are questions that people are very interested in, and we have a lot of such questions ahead of us in our offices. I feel the same way about interest. See, interest is the result of someone who saves; you, with those who saves and thereby benefits our common economy, would say, because more money is available, will now be punished by paying interest; then real estate, and so on and so on, these issues are very large. I would expect Mr. President of the Government to say clearly, "Yes, we will tax property, we will take this, we will take that," but not by comparing it with the various European situations that I myself know well - I am aware that this is a serious problem, of course, I have also read everything that is written about it, especially what Mr. Finance Minister said, but of course his State Secretary, who had a slightly different opinion when it comes to the interest to be taxed, and the capital gains that he does not think are necessary. But you know, under the Prime Minister, I like it very much when you say that Slovenia is at the top of Europe by many criteria. I would like Slovenia to be on top even when it comes to salaries and pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u14	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much for the additional question. This does not refer, of course, to Article 90, but specifically to certain legal solutions in pension law and tax legislation. So, I can say very clearly, and I am pleased that I can say that we are not planning and we will not take the pensioners' regress, the pensioners will have the regression and they have it and we will provide them with the regression. What we've been thinking, and if we've ever thought about it, we've been thinking about maybe transforming the regression into 13 pensions and in this way aligning the dynamics of pension payments with the dynamics that apply to salaries. This was the subject of a discussion, but this is a completely different discussion that will take place on another topic. As far as taxation of profits and interest is concerned, those solutions are applicable or discussed and are being prepared, which relate to taxation of interest and capital gains, which are extreme, which are large and do not concern ordinary citizens who have normal savings, which have pensions or salaries in the bank, but relate to interest, to huge amounts which in fact represent specific types of income and in these cases, they tax such interest in all countries comparable to Europe. For example, Germany and I have spoken about this in public on several occasions. So as far as this is concerned, there is no need to be particularly concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Igor Štemberger to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. I ask the Prime Minister for an opinion on the Vilnius Declaration: Will you take action against Dr Dimitri Rupl or will you replace him because of Slovenia's accession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u18	Prime Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. So, with regard to the Vilnius Declaration, I have spoken publicly several times over the past days and weeks and have explained very clearly the views of the Slovenian Government. First of all, as far as the Vilnius Declaration is concerned, this is the statement that the foreign ministers have approached it, which - and this is also true, and this has also been said on the Committee when you discussed this topic - has been consulted by the Foreign Minister both with me and with some others in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a statement that needs to be clearly understood and also interpreted within the meaning of the entire declaration adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and in which we have adopted a comprehensive position on the Iraqi crisis. In this comprehensive position on the Iraqi crisis, we have made it very clear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assesses and believes that everything possible must be done to find a peaceful solution to the Iraqi crisis. That a complete Iraqi crisis and problem must be addressed within the framework of the Security Council, with the participation of all members of the Security Council, we have also specifically called on the members of the European Union participating in the Security Council to do their utmost to achieve convergence of interests or views and to finally reach this peaceful solution. However, there is also a need to do everything necessary to disarm the Iraqi regime. In fact, in this context, it is a confirmation of the correctness of our decisions, a confirmation of the correctness of the policy that we have led at this time, a specific statement of the European Union, which we have approached as a government and to which I, as Prime Minister myself, have publicly and clearly acceded in Brussels. In this statement, the European Union clearly, unequivocally emphasises, on the one hand, all that I have said before, and on the other hand, the recognition of the United States of America for everything they have done and have done in order to disarm the Iraqi crisis. And the fundamental path is the Security Council and a peaceful solution. I am firmly convinced that, of course, Minister Rupel has already made it very clear on several occasions that he is on this path and that, together with the whole government, he will do everything to make this position clear in Europe. Otherwise, with regard to the Iraqi crisis, as you know, new developments are developing every day and our foreign policy will respond to these events in a timely and appropriate manner. The Vilnius Declaration is, in fact, something that is already in the past, in view of all that has happened, something that has long been upgraded by the common positions of all members of the European Union and all candidates for accession to the European Union and all candidates, in fact, to join NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u20	Complementary question. Please, colleague Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u21	Look, with your answer, you didn't convince me or give me a clear answer whether or not you're going to replace it. We believe that the views of the government you have adopted are contrary to the Vilnius Declaration. We are still of the opinion that the Foreign Minister has done a great deal of foreign policy damage to our country by his actions. Therefore, I invite all Members and Members of Parliament to assist with their signature for interpretation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u22	It's not an object. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u23	to discuss labour responsibility against Foreign Minister Rupl. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u24	This is not an issue. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u25	Dear Member. Allow me to comment, however, on your assessment of the Vilnius Declaration. I have just had the opportunity these days to attend the seventh European Forum in Austria, where we discussed very much also the Iraqi crisis and also how to solve problems and how to bring the relatively different views of the European Union closer and contribute to a peaceful solution. I can say that, in fact, the Vilnius Declaration is something that is not specifically discussed and does not present a particular problem. Of course, I was able to explain with great satisfaction the views of Slovenia. And these are, I can say, European, and these are the positions that support primarily a peaceful solution. In this context, of course, I must also make it very clear to you that I will not propose the discharge of Minister Rupl. Otherwise, I do not have the authority to resolve it myself, I have the authority to propose, but I will not do so, because I believe that Minister Rupel is able to perform his work successfully in the function and for the foreign policy that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and finally the coalition treaty, has drawn up very clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The last question in this session will be raised today by your colleague Dr. Bayuk. You have the floor, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The data on SIBs, which have been made public so far, including the government's data on the response to the April 2002 question by counterpart Janez Janša, are enough to start today an extraordinary meeting entitled Addressing political and, consequently, substantive and criminal responsibility for the imprudent operation and change of ownership of SIB of the most important institutions of the Slovenian State, the Ministry of Finance under the direction of mag. Gasparija and Ropa, Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Banka Slovenije. The SIB is far from just a matter of Ljubljana Municipality. First, it is the matter of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia. Let me give the public the necessary information. In April 1990, in the last weeks of Shinigog's government, the SIB was established with the majority ownership of the country. Since the bank's management, Mr Klemenčič, later opposed the level of ownership of the State, an agreement was concluded in 1998 and was confirmed in June 1999, with which the Republic of Slovenia defined its majority share of 36.9% and agreed with only 20% of the voting rights, although it did not receive preferential shares but only ordinary shares. She didn't want to have voting rights. She also gave up her responsibility. In April 2000, on 14 April, the government transferred part of its share of its share to the capital company and the Slovenian Compensation Society. In 2001, the Ministry of Finance, under your leadership, transferred the remaining 21.6% of the country to the State First Pension Fund managed by Mr Lenič. By the end of 2001, on 27 December 2001, in the supervisory council, the people appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the supervisory board of the SIB Bank, with the former direct share of the State, were 37% managed by representatives of the SOD and the KAD, the first pension fund, which are all 100% owned by the State. The loss of the SIB bank in 2002 is due to the apparent hidden loss of past years of control over the management of the SIB Bank in conjunction with Mr Klemenčič, with the highest representatives of the Government and the Bank of Slovenia. My question: Will the government allow the acquisition of SIB by the New Ljubljana Bank or any other company in which the State has any capital share? And secondly: How long will the ruling coalition at national and local level be mocking citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you so much for asking. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u29	Your Honor! The State of the Republic of Slovenia has never had a majority share in the Slovenian Investment Bank. You yourself said that this share was 37% and 40%, and that in 2000 it was 21.65%. The strategy of the former government, as well as those governments, as defined in the economic development strategy and the strategy for the financial system and banks and businesses, has been clear throughout. The strategy was to withdraw from state-owned enterprises and to withdraw from banks. And in this context, we have debated here many times and I am convinced that this strategy was the right one, that it was good, and this is shown in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, where it appears today, and we can hear from the biggest criticisms of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank that it has changed so much in the New Ljubljana Bank since privatisation, as it did in the previous ten years. The Slovenian Investment Bank is one of the smallest banks in Slovenia, its share is 0.96%, not one percent of the balance sheet total of all Slovenian banks, so it was a clear approach of the state and government, and I think it was right to withdraw from this bank. The fact is that the majority and control share of the Slovenian Investment Bank has been acquired by Energetics Holding or through it by the City of Ljubljana. The city of Ljubljana manages Holding and indirectly also Energy. That is why it is right - so it is right - to say that this also assumes responsibility for trying to respond appropriately in relation to the situation that has arisen. In doing so, I would like to make it very clear that I do not claim that it is not necessary to establish the responsibility of those who operated in the Slovenian Investment Bank, those who operated in Energy and in Holding, and not least of all those who intervened in specific transactions. I therefore hope that most of the conclusions adopted by the City of Ljubljana will be adopted, maintained and implemented. I estimate that there are quite a few institutions, and it is far from being the only one to react here by the government and Banka Slovenije, especially it is quite clear that it must react to the City of Ljubljana - The City of Ljubljana has adopted conclusions and I hope that they will be realized. Unlike those institutions that have been listed so far, I believe that an appropriate role should also be given to the audit institute, which is ultimately competent to grant licences to audit houses, and should also be given an initiative to it - I hope that the State Prosecutor will do what is necessary and has the documentation. As you are probably aware from the reports of the various media, the Anti-Corruption Office in this case has initiated a procedure or an appropriate analysis. The Securities Market Agency will carry out its task, and this has also been made very clear by the Director or Acting Officer. I myself hope that the Court of Auditors, in particular in the case of Holding and Energy, will carry out its audit and familiarise the City Council with the relevant analysis. Last but not least, Banka Slovenije is extremely important in the whole story. As she had her reports when she joined the purchase of the bank, she also has them now and has some leverage for very important decisions in relation to the subsequent fate of the Slovenian Investment Bank. So, the Slovenian Investment Bank is in indirect ownership of the City, so the City is obliged - and it has also gone on this path, and I myself support in this sense the politics of the Mayor of Ljubljana to discover that it reveals everything that has happened and to find out who they are, if they are, who are specifically directly responsible for the mistakes that have taken place in this case. In this context, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, of course, cooperate with all institutions, in particular within the framework of the powers it has in relation to individual offices or institutions under any authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u30	Complementary question, Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u31	Mr Prime Minister, it is clear from your response that the Government, the Liberal Democracy and the United List do not understand what is going on, or still assumes that the Slovenian public does not understand the essence of the developments in the Slovenian Investment Bank. On the contrary, the public and especially the citizens of Ljubljana know well that the entire Slovenian political authority conceals that at the SIB in recent years they have been approving, lending loans, knowing that certain recipients, which Dr. Arhar recently referred to as strawed men, will never return, after what has been known, for at least a few 5 billion tolars. This would, for example, be more than enough for the immediate completion of the Oncology Institute or for the construction of a new university library, or to make it even more understandable, over 10 km long-cut column of new Clives. The corrective action to convince the Slovenian public of the opposite is only the following. You will have to achieve the abolition of the illegal purchase of SIB by Energy, so that you will request the Director of the Securities Market Agency, Dr. Neven Borak, from the Attorney General of Zdenka Cerar and other law enforcement authorities. By doing so, you will be able to return the money to the Energy Agency and to the State, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will return it only by having to disclose the SIB’s non-refundable creditors and by requesting the Money Laundering Office to track down the real receipts of these loans. If you think, Mr President, that the citizens have been comforted by Mr Rekar on wave 202 yesterday, saying that it was even worse in the Far West, you will, of course, continue the current policy. His comfort was understood as the following message: In the Far West, it was even more difficult. That's where the gold mine got the one who shot first. Thank you very much. Are you prepared to take such an approach? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u32	Mr Prime Minister, you have the floor for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u33	In this regard, this was more your comment, I would say that there is a very clear clear message by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and also by me that everything needs to be done to determine whether there are such committees, whether there are such transactions, or whether there are internal information between the various actors of the transaction itself, on the basis of which anyone has obtained a wealth benefit or has acquired a part of what you have been talking about. I estimate that these institutions, which have been publicly listed here, which are exposed, are sufficiently qualified to bring matters to the bottom. And I am sure that we will continue to talk about this issue, and I am sure that, of course, the audit itself will find irregularities in the end, and I think that we must all do everything together to ensure that those who are ultimately responsible for what happened are also properly sanctioned. However, I would not be judging, for this is what the institutions I was talking about, and the government, as I said, will take care of and ensure that these institutions do their work and, of course, come to the results, and I believe that we will all be very clear about them together then, and of course, I am also convinced that the Slovenian public rightly so requests. We are aware of this and, of course, we will support such activities, which would naturally lead to a bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u35	Procedurally, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 246, paragraph 2, because I am not satisfied with the answer, I propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Government or the Prime Minister on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u36	Tomorrow afternoon's work will be decided by the State Assembly without discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u37	Mr President, I propose that the proposal put forward by Mr Bayuk be voted on immediately. This, for reasons, is a new practice in Parliament, under the new rules of procedure, which is to hide from the public. Mr Bajuk and the entire Slovenian public know that this is a billion-dollar corruption in the SIB bank. And also, let's say, on the SRD -- what I'm going to say in my question of letters -- it's the same people. Mr Rekar, who is "healing" at the SRD, approved the Stom million prize treaties. To make this vote immediately so that people will find out in front of the cameras who is responsible for this discussion, to get to the bottom of it, because if we vote tomorrow, the same story will be the same as always when it is not voted. I don't want gentlemen hiding out here from the public. Let's do this vote, this is possible under the rules of procedure, and we have nothing to delay. This is an impossible practice to delay such a clear proposal in two days' time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. I would like to explain firstly that this business possibility exists for the President or the President to decide when the vote will take place. Let me say that the reasons why we adopted this practice a while ago are not that anyone avoids the public's knowledge of voting. It was a question of whether, when asking questions, not only when the Prime Minister answers them, but also when ministers and ministers answer, the National Assembly decides. We know that at that time the degree of concoction is lower. We felt that it was more beneficial to wait until the next day, and that is what we have done so far. Tomorrow, as it is, the public and the public will know how the National Assembly is voting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u39	Mr President, tomorrow there will be no vote in front of the cameras, in front of the public. Today, the eyes of the Slovenian public are open to Parliament, in question to the Prime Minister, to his Members. I demand that my proposal be voted on now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u40	Okay. Then there'll be a national assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u41	Then let the public know who's covering up the public's case.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u42	Then the National Assembly will first decide to decide on this issue today. I propose, however, that we do not start with practice if, at any time between the questions and initiatives of the Members and Members of Parliament, any decision could be called for immediately, because we know the problems involved and are not bound by the political position of the concrete proposal. I think this practice is better. Please, I will now ask the National Assembly to decide whether we are voting on this proposal immediately or tomorrow. I would not like us to decide today that we should always vote automatically between the questions and initiatives; last but not least, the practice has taught us that the postponement is better. However, I think it would be good for us to agree next time on practice - please, colleague Jerovšek - to clarify this issue. So now I will make your proposal that we immediately decide on this, put it to the vote. It is therefore a proposal that we decide immediately on the proposal of a colleague of Dr. Bayuk to discuss the National Assembly at the next meeting on the Prime Minister's response. Who's up for it or against us making that decision right now? Excuse me? A vote? Please, Comrade Petan, you picked up when the device is up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u43	I'm sorry, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u44	I'll do what I always do now. If a Member raises his hand at the time of the vote, I respect the objection, but I do not. Does anyone else object that his voting device does not work flawlessly because we will repeat the vote? Once again, I will ask the National Assembly whether it agrees with the proposal that we immediately vote on Dr. Bayuk's proposal. Please. 54 in attendance, 22 in and 32 in. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the National Assembly will decide on the proposal made by Dr Bayuk in accordance with the rules of procedure tomorrow, as has been the case with the recent practice. If anyone thinks that this practice is not good, I suggest that we discuss it peacefully within the College and that I myself, as President, will respect such a decision. On the other hand, I think it is right to say that today's conduct is in no way different from the conduct that we have had; in recent meetings, the National Assembly voted on the proposal on the first day, the next day, on Tuesday afternoon. The next question will be asked by colleague Maria Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present and welcome. I ask Dr. Vlad Dimovski, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs: In what way and to what extent will social benefits and pensions be coordinated in 2003? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u46	Please, Mr. Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u47	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u48	More out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you so much for asking. I'm sorry, I have a bit of a problem with my throat. These questions, which relate to or answer to your question, are primarily a question of coordination. First of all, this is said to be social benefits, provided for by the Social Protection Act, that all the benefits provided for in this Title are aligned with the first and on the basis of the Life Cost Index. This growth rate, to which the basic amount of minimum income determined as one of the basic categories in the Social Protection Act is then aligned, was 7.2%. Since you have already asked me in concrete terms, in what way and to what extent they will be from the amount of minimum income to which it is possible to obtain social assistance, they amount, I will give you some of the data here, but at the same time I will provide you with a full answer, of course, so that you will be able to see in concrete terms how these coordinations will take place. Let me point out that for a single and first adult in the family, this amount of minimum income will amount to just over 43,000 tolars. Then for each of the next adults in the family, a little over 30,000 tolars. In short, there are still a few categories here, so that I would not operate here with all these numbers, we will provide you with an answer to this question in writing. At the same time, you asked me to coordinate pensions. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, data were published on 27.2.2003, after which the rate of growth of the average wage per employee was paid for the period January - December 2002, compared to the payments for January - December 2001 was 9.7%. The rate of growth of pensions paid for this period, according to the Statistics Office, for January - December 2002, compared to the January - December 2001 payments was also 9.7%. Given that there was no positive difference in the movement of average wages and pensions for the same period, the conditions for the harmonisation of pensions in February were not met. This was also noted at the last meeting of the Management Committee of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in the information transmitted by the Institute at the same meeting. And based on wage movements, it's likely to be coordinated in March. The next time you asked me about this year, the law provides a deadline for the reconciliation of pensions in September. If, of course, there is no positive difference between salaries and pensions, then this harmonisation takes place every next month, this can be done in October. If not, then this difference in each of the following months by the end of the year. So it is now essential that this ratio, or the rate of increase in wage and pension movements, is now essential. Let me say again that this is based on statistics published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u50	Complementary question, colleague Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer, or I was hoping for more concrete data, like a family pension, then a farmer's pension, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u52	Please, Minister Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much again. This is because this is a whole range of benefits, including some that I have not mentioned in the area of social benefits, such as a minimum income for a child of 13, slightly over 13 thousand tolars, then an increase for a single parent family, an allowance for rent, etc., including all your questions relating to specific types of pensions, of course we will provide you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u54	A colleague, Ana Marija Tisovic, will ask the Minister of the Interior. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask Mr Bohinc, Minister of the Interior: We know that no country is immune to corruption, against economic crime, and we have been talking about this a lot lately. When we look at the statistics for years ago, we find that more and more of these crimes are discovered, we may also wonder whether this is because economic crime is growing or because services have a greater impact in their work. I therefore ask the Minister: Does he have sufficient resources for good professionals in economic crime to enable them to be motivated? That's one question. The second question is: Are any legal and formal obstacles that would impede their work, detection, proof thereof, and, if necessary, a criminal code in this area concerning economic crime still being removed? In fact, people are talking about this -- one is when they rob a post office or a bank, they get $10 million or something, they're going to get a fine of 1-5 years, while there's billions going on, and we don't know if anyone's been punished or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u56	Please, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u57	First of all, I thank you for this powerful issue. I agree with you that in recent times it has been justified to speak about economic crime as a phenomenon of the post-transition period. In part, we have also contributed to this, aware that in this area the country, which also means our ministry and the general police administration, must do more precisely in the direction you have indicated. Therefore, we are preparing for a government debate, which is expected to take place in the coming week, a broader analysis of this issue, with proposals for some very concrete measures to overcome the unsavory situation in the area of economic crime management. But before that, let me tell you that this unenviable situation is not from today or yesterday or two years ago, but that we can say so just from the beginning of the 1990s. All the statistics we collected suggest that during the privatisation transition period there were a number of very specific crimes in the field of business fraud, abuse of position and property transformation, that the police have reported as many as 490 complaints during this period against 649 suspects or 908 criminal offences in this area. In short, sufficient work has been done, but we can assess that the law enforcement and justice authorities have not been sufficiently partial to the perpetrators of crimes in the field of business fraud and property privatisation during this period. Today, I cannot provide you with data on how many convicts were in this area, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Justice, but we will also collect these answers in a broader written reply. However, I would like to inform you of what we are preparing as government measures in this area. Much of the measures concern the human resources aspect of this issue. Indeed, economic crime is, by definition, a very complex area of economics, law, various financial areas and the key development of professions within the criminal profession in these many areas and a match between a step and the development of professions and also crime in this area. In the post-transition period, it is characteristic that crime extends to some entirely new areas that we know today under the name of abuse of internal information, internal trade, commercial speculation, international financial transactions, and this is linked to knowledge that is not easy to obtain. This is why a number of our proposals are primarily aimed at setting up educational programmes in which police officers, criminals, prosecutors and judicial investigative judges from this specific area will be trained and educated together. The second group of proposals concerns cooperation with experts and expert organisations in this field, in particular audit and advisory organisations in the field of finance. The third group of proposals refers to comparable rewards, as you said, of criminals, in order to prevent the very large fluctuation that we witnessed in the two waves between 1993 and 1997. As many as 89 criminals went to various other public services and in 1997-2001 another wave of the 1960s. In short, we need to make a comparable system of awarding without disparity that would allow unfair competition within the public services. We also establish different relationships within job systemisation, we set up a new type of economic criminalist-specialist with postgraduate education, and we have also set up an initiative for a special specialist programme for criminals, prosecutors and judges, where people would be trained on these new skills to meet the challenges of the new post-transition period and which is linked to the increasing scale of increasingly complex forms of crime. On the first question, here is another. A coordination interdepartmental group will be formed to coordinate all these activities. On the second question, only this, the Slovenian Penal Code is good in this area, does not need to be amended. However, I strongly support amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which give more powers to the police in the evidentiary proceedings in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Please, supplemental question, colleague Maria Ana Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I am most pleased with your answer, but I am interested in whether you have sufficient resources to not then say "we did not have enough funding to complete all this program, which is very good". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u60	Complementary response, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you for clarifying the question. Of course, resources are never enough. Let me say that in 1997 a good strategy against economic crime was adopted, which envisioned 189.5 million additional funds for the criminal police. The strategy was adopted, there was no extra money. Of course, we will do everything we can to find new funds for the programmes I have talked about - for the greater development of the professions in this area, for the additional training and for the greater involvement of experts in this area - through redeployments within the police budget and the Ministry of the Interior, as well as within the options in the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Comrade Rokavec, Minister of Economy and Minister of Defence. Shall I say to my friend please? [[...]] Oh, my friend Barovich, I'm sorry! I sincerely apologize to you. You will ask the Minister of Justice a question and then you will ask Comrade Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers! The municipality of Trbovlje, together with the other two municipalities of Zasavina in 1999, gave the Ministry of Justice and the National Assembly a legislative initiative to establish a district court in Trbovje, which would be locally responsible for the area of the municipalities of Radeče, Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Zagorje and Lithuania. Justification: The fundamental court in Ljubljana, the Trbovlje Unit, was in the past following the case, and is still today the second largest unit in the then fundamental court in Ljubljana, immediately for the Ljubljana unit. Since the entry into force of the Law on Courts, which began on 1 January 1995, many powers have been transferred to the District Court in Ljubljana, where there are still large backlogs. These delays have, inter alia, caused difficulties in closing the chapters of the Republic of Slovenia when entering the European Union. With these backlogs, the Ministry of Justice has forced the Hercules programme, with or due to these setbacks, an additional award for individual judges has been obtained at the home labour force in the Ministry of Justice. On the other hand, the Ministry has taken over the work of judges and other workers who in the past have been burdening and currently carrying out their work, in particular, in the Rippers. For example, the 1995 Law on Courts established the District Court in Krskem and Slovenj Gradc, again comparing and substantiation, which had neither the seat of the unit of the basic court nor the seat of the public defender. If we compare the number of inhabitants in the areas of Krske, Slovenj Gradca and Trbovlje, Trbovlje today has the largest population to be covered by the District Court, about 71,000, Krško 70,000, Slovenj Gradec 58.000. In Trbovje, there is a facility that would be provided with prospecting and minimal resources for the exercise of all the powers of the district court, including the economic department. The establishment of the District Court in Trbovje would enable residents to exercise their rights in courts in an area already covered by the Basic Court. Questions. Firstly: Why did the Ministry of Justice not respond to the formal initiative to set up the 1995 District Court? Secondly: Why did not the Ministry of Justice, as the institution of the Law on Courts, at least check the validity of the initiative with the information it has at its disposal? Thirdly: Who is responsible or will be responsible that the Ljubljana District Court is overloaded? Fourthly: Who will pay such poor people the trip to Ljubljana, the holidays and the expenses they have, because they cannot seek justice where they could be, according to all the legal and economic indicators? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for Answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u65	Dear Member, Mr President! It is true that in the past the Ministry has dealt with the issues of the network of district courts, of course, in the first place at the time of the judicial reform itself before 1995. At that time, the question of whether it should be established for approximately this area, including the district court with its seat, then, according to my information, either in Trbovje or in Lithuania, was also the subject of weighting. At that time such a decision was obviously not made on the basis of the analyses carried out. In a later period, the existing network of courts was also re-analysed with the cooperation of foreign experts. The findings of both foreign experts and our own analyses are such that the existing network of courts is largely too diversified, in particular as regards the level of district courts. It is also true that at the level of district courts we do not find the need to expand the number of these courts. This is illustrated by all the professional aspects when it comes to the number of cases, when it comes to the size of the area and when it comes to the rationality of business. In all these respects, there is no reason to establish an additional and also this specific additional court. Such a re-examination would eventually be appropriate if there were some clear, unified partitions of Slovenia, because we currently have different districts and, of course, it would be appropriate to consider the appropriateness of the present judicial districts. Otherwise, I must state that the Ministry does not favour any further fragmentation of the judicial system, so that we are opposed in principle. The existing smaller district courts also face some problems that arise mainly from their size. In particular, I would like to mention problems with greater specialisation, which is still necessary in some matters. The specific question why the Ministry did not respond in 1999 is why we cannot answer you right now. However, I believe that the initiative has been examined. The same applies to all elements of the determination of the merits of the initiative at that time. With regard to your assessments of the overburden of the district court in Ljubljana, let me mention that this court is not among the most heavily burdened, that the results in terms of management also belong and the reduction in the number of pending cases indicate that this court also faces those problems quite successfully, so that this cannot be the key reason for a fundamentally different decision. If I conclude, the Ministry does not favour the establishment of new courts of any degree. Of course, with regard to the relevance of the current districts, even in the light of the information you have just provided, it would be a good time to re-examine when this geographical breakdown of Slovenia is in some way settled and when it would also be right for the districts to be as unified as possible in the various areas of operation of the country as regards the area alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u67	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. But I'm going to ask you very specifically once more. I put down some data, and I don't want my colleagues in Slovenj Gradc or in Krskov to get me wrong. I only gave them for comparison. I wish and allow them to have their own district court to make it easier for their people to work, to seek justice where they are. These data are absolutely comparable - the number of people, the number of cases, the type of matters, everything is identical to the Needs, only that in the Needs this moment, unfortunately, the social situation is such that - but if you take this for demagogies or not - many people cannot afford it if it comes, even divorces that may result, for example, from social pressures. A lot of social pressures lead to divorce, and a lot of these divorces, after which justice must not be allowed in Ljubljana, are not demagogies. I therefore ask: Is it possible in the Ministry of Justice to examine and even out certain conditions that give the possibility to place courts at the level of district, district and so on? The data are identical, the data are comparable, the data show that the eligibility of the request for the establishment of a district court in the Trobs is given. This is all I want to know is whether it is possible to study this and to help reorganise a new flow, even though employment in the public administration, to re-energize and reduce costs. Is there any way to think about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you. I'm asking for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u69	On every serious issue, it is always possible to think. Of course, I do not underestimate your arguments, which you state, but the Ministry's direction is that, in the current mandate, the current government does not introduce new reforms to the judicial system. Much more important to us is that we direct all forces to remedy the judicial backlogs. Only one perfectly normal situation in the judiciary could be the starting point for some possible new reforms, for a more optimal organisational division of the Slovenian judiciary. Once again, in principle, we are opposed to the changes, but we intend to, also on the basis of what you have said, also on the basis of what I am counting on, that we will be able to find out again about some of the facts already carried out, to see whether, for example, some of the slightly more distant futures are any serious reasons for changes in the organisation of the courts, and if, in which all the areas in Slovenia are.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you. The next question will be asked by colleague Franci Rokavec to the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Defence. And after him, Bogomir the Grandchild. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! First question I ask Minister Petrinov: What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do to solve the problem in the leather industry? The fact is, in particular in the Vrhnika leather plant, Šmartno, that in December of last year a majority of the total of 328 employees were sent on temporary leave. All these people are out of work right now. We know that it is not only 328 people or their families but, as a result, it is directly related to about 1,000 people and even a wider area. I therefore ask the Ministry: What will the state do about solving the longstanding problem in the leather industry in our country? What will be the measures that the State will also take through the Slovenian Development Society in liquidation in this area? We know that the sale programme also includes the sale of this share of the Vrhnika leather industry. My question: What does the government want or wants to keep the leather industry in Slovenia? If it wants to, how will it do so for their technological training and competitive performance in global markets? That's the question. The second question is addressed to the Ministry of Defence. As early as January, I had asked a written question to which I had received an answer. This is a problem with the abolition of the defence exhibition in Lithuania and the transfer of this activity to the public in Trbovje. Both municipal councils, both the congregation of Šmartno near Lithuania and the congregation of Lithium, strongly protested this decision, which was passed through the will and decision of the two congregations. They requested an urgent interview with the competent authorities of the Ministry. From this time on, it's been a minimum of 11 days since the ministry of nothing. The fact is, this organisational link is illogical. It is illogical because it has already configured Lithium for Ljubljana from the natural link. In this particular case, the citizen's case will be forwarded to Trbovlje and then it will go in the opposite direction against Ljubljana. And second. It is unacceptable that the Ministry of Defence has taken this decision on the basis that Lithuania has always been part of the Ljubljana Defence Authority, not the Defence Administration in Trbovje. On the basis of this and also of the proposed new reorganisations in the field of protection and rescue, we rightly ask citizens and citizens in both municipalities whether this is not part of the silent scenario of the creation of future regions and the alignment of their decisions. Let me just mention that this area has already protested in 1994 about the organisation in the field of territorial defence and within three days plebiscite decided plebiscitely with more than 85% of citizens to oppose such links. I would therefore once again like to have immediate contact with both local communities and find an appropriate solution. Both municipal councils have proposed a revision of this decision, and we therefore look forward to talking first and then to a meaningful better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you for asking. The first question will be answered by the Minister of Economy, Dr. Tea Petrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you. All present and welcome. Dear Member, Mr President! I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 19 December 1999, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a programme to adapt the Slovenian leather and footwear industry to the internal market conditions of the European Union during the period 2000 to 2003, including 2003. Since the beginning of 2000, the Ministry of Economy has been implementing this programme of restructuring or adaptation of the Slovenian leather industry to the internal market conditions of the European Union. This programme has also been endorsed by the European Commission and we also regularly report on how this programme is being implemented. What were these incentives for? In particular, it was agreed to increase the competitive capacity of companies in this industry that the most important or most necessary development incentives in the field of marketing, technological renewal and human resource development are essential. This programme is not aimed at financial restructuring in a narrower sense, but is prepared as a programme of development incentives, which is why the responsibility for development decisions is, of course, borne by the participating companies and not by the State. We're giving them help, of course. More than 75% of companies in this sector have so far been involved in the implementation of this programme, both by number of employees and by income. In addition, it is necessary to know that this programme - this is the only vertical or sectoral programme that we have implemented in the negotiations with the European Union - will expire in 2003. However, this does not mean that businesses in this sector will not receive any further aid. On the contrary, aid will continue to be granted, namely this development aid, while at the same time providing additional resources to support the operation of the Joint Technology Centres and to create production and service networks. As far as IUV is concerned, the company IU Vrhnika has several options. Firstly, let me mention the Law on rescue and restructuring aid for companies under which companies that are in serious difficulty can be said to be prior to an enforcement settlement if it is proven that it is possible by a certain restructuring to ensure that they become marketable undertakings, of course they can obtain this aid. As far as the company is concerned, I must say that regardless of this law, the restructuring of IU Vrhnika is already under way on the basis of a restructuring programme, namely the annex to the Republic of Slovenia guarantee agreement and the conversion of the Republic of Slovenia’s claims to IUV d.d. Why the conversion? The conversion is due to the fact that this would enable the acquisition of shares or shares that would be more than 50% of the capital to be acquired by a strategic partner. All this restructuring programme is running with the company. The State shall also be included in the financial recovery through guarantees. And why are the guarantees important? In the case of guarantees, the State guarantees up to 80% of the amount of the loan and the interest rate is reduced to TOM + 5% from the annex to the guarantee contracts. In addition, financial restructuring will greatly help to ensure that the company intends to sell off its unnecessary assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you. The second question is to be answered by the Minister of Defence, who is excusedly absent, and follows a written reply in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I give you my word, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. I must say that the Minister's response has indeed been very comprehensive, but a fundamental question is still being asked. We know that a few years ago, the Storea plant, the same company, the Vrhnika leather industry, was shut down. Yes, I'm sorry, it's quite a twist. Now there is very great concern and uncertainty in Šmartne near Lithuania, which is why I would really like to, because these are the only two segments of the leather industry in Slovenia, that the government actually examines all the options, both budgetary and legislative, to save and maintain this leather industry. And secondly, this is about the Ministry of Defence and my question. I, Mr President, would like to propose that this Rule of this Rules of Procedure be used and that an oral answer to this question be provided at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for the additional question to the Minister of Economy. The second is in force in accordance with Article 247 and we will provide this reply at the next meeting. Minister Petrinova, I'm asking for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. And not just to explain. We share the same opinion. This company has already made some efforts in the restructuring process, particularly in obtaining technological improvements, design, marketing and the like. As a result of this, of course, we will support these leadership efforts, and right now they will also come to the Ministry of the Economy to see what other options there are under this law to help businesses in difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you, too. Now I'd have the word Bogomir the Grandchild, but he's gone. That's why we're going to the next question mark. Ivan Kebrich will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please, Comrade Kebrich, you have the floor. Joza Tanko is not present.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Dear Minister, I have taken into account the 60 days that have been desired, and this is the time for you to enter a new function, so I am only asking you this question today. Not only in spite of the mistrust and doubts of pensioners, but also many others, in the published data of the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the movement of wages and living costs, the question is how the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia covers wages and what wages are shown. According to what model does the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia identify wage movements and then calculate monthly averages gross and net wages? Are they in these gross salaries, I ask you, to cover all the employees' earnings for their work done? Certain companies are known to pay part of their earnings simply by means of vouchers. Why do I use the term "earning" and not just "paying"? Because of the need to pay taxes and contributions from the salary, it is possible to give the employee a profit or part of it in a different way. I ask you, how did the Bureau of Statistics take into account Christmases, pay off profits, and any other forms of employee payments at the end of the year? How do you feel about this fact? With other forms of payment, it is possible to avoid paying taxes and contributions. For everything that should be shown as pay, you are first interested at the Finance Ministry in order to obtain your country, as well as the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, as this would increase revenue into the budget, both through taxes and contributions and consequently reduce the need to transfer from the state budget to the designated institution. Pensioners welcome the statutory provision to align pensions with all salaries, as they share the fate of employees, but, as has already been said, they question the data on paid salaries and simply do not believe in such a movement as it is shown. I ask you, as responsible finance minister, to explain not only to me but to all of us, to the public, what pattern has been taken to move wages? Are there any changes to this legislation necessary to properly cover all benefits at the expense of work and to pay taxes and contributions?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you. Please turn off the microphone. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you so much for asking. Otherwise, most of the questions concern another minister, since the law is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Nevertheless, I have obtained all the information from the Statistics Office, how they cover salaries and, of course, the part relating to the Ministry of Finance. I'll answer that. With regard to the methodology for the statistical monitoring of wages, I would like to say that the statistical office has been monitoring wages for a number of years in companies, companies and organisations, except in private companies with one or two employees. In this context, it employs 600,000 employees, around 22,000 units are of these companies, and from the point of view of receiving wages, it is about 88% of all employees. What does it cover? The salaries shall cover the remuneration of employees paid for full-time and full-time work, shorter and longer than full-time work, cover all other benefits based on this basis, compensation for annual leave paid up to 7 days, for public holidays, sick leave up to 30 days, for professional education, for work without fault of employees, paid absences and the like, for other salaries for the last 12 months and for salaries for the previous months, allowances for the previous work, incentive allowances, prizes, premiums and remunerations for the period of 12 months and for the final account for the observed month. It's all on the payroll. However, if payments are paid from funds of total consumption or material costs, such as regress, compensation for transport and nutrition, vouchers, diaries, kilometres, payments in the form of securities, then they are not taken into account by statistics in the amount of wages. Since 1999 it has also been monitoring separate statistics on the payment of 13 salaries, Christmas, New Year's Eve, which are part of the outstanding payments methodology, and since November 2002 the SURS has also started to monitor salaries for part of the employees who are not included in the regular survey, these are those private companies with one person or two employees and independent entrepreneurs for the additional monthly survey. All of these units are about 38,000, so in fact most of the population is covered. Since this is a very detailed material on individual elements of this methodology, I propose that we provide this material in writing because it has methodological explanations that are even more precise. With regard to your issue of taxation and thus the inflow of taxes and contributions to the three registers, I would like to say that, in accordance with the Income Act, wages, wages and other benefits paid in cash, vouchers or nature, including reimbursements of costs and other benefits, if they exceed a certain amount, and benefits in the form of incentives and ratings, are considered to be the basis for the tax on personal income from the employment relationship. This is said to be the case, as well as the vouchers and other forms are covered in income. However, in accordance with the rules governing social security contributions, such coverage is relatively comprehensive. So I would say that a purely general assessment is to take into account all benefits from the working relationship, no matter what form they are. It is true, however, that in the last period we have seen the trend that the debtors are increasingly adapting to tax and other burdens and moving from tax-burdened forms of income to less burdened forms of income. In this regard, we are now preparing an amendment to the Income Act, which is supposed to be based on a different concept based on the current system, so that this is not possible. A similar issue is also relevant to the area of social security contributions, where certain changes in these sectoral laws will also be needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you, Minister for your answer. My friend Kebrich wants to ask you an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u83	I'm not entirely satisfied with your answer, so I'm asking you an additional question. I may have misunderstood you because at first you said that the vouchers were not like wages, but then you said they were covered in income or income. My additional question is as follows. I am sure that you are aware that many independent entrepreneurs, either with or without one employee, pay minimum wages, while providing an additional pension with maximum remuneration in the second pillar, i.e. untaxed and without contributions, so this is not a gross salary and is not covered by the wage movement. Of course, they do not care about their basic pension when they accumulate wealth, but they may be paying higher wages in the last 18 years to provide them with a higher pension base. It is also a particular problem that such companies mainly work with contract workers, since contract charges are significantly lower than those for regular employees. I ask you: How will you take action in these cases, since you must be interested, together with the Minister for the Economy, the Minister for Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, in the maximum possible employment and in the regular payment of both wages and on the basis of taxes and contributions?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'm asking for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more. I think I've already answered your question. I have said that we have recently seen a trend in moving taxpayers from a more tax-intensive to a less tax-intensive income. In this regard, we are preparing, as I said, a new law on income, which is supposed to be built on a new concept to prevent this. I also said that, in these sectoral laws, contributions to pension and health care should in fact be regulated in a similar way. I agree with that. About the vouchers. You have accurately concluded that they are not included in the salary because they are paid from material costs while in income they are covered, this difference is between them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Comrade Kebrich, there's no further question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u87	It concerns a proposal for a decision. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 35/2 from 2002]] I propose that the State Assembly hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to my question. What he said was that they were preparing. I think it is absolutely necessary for the National Assembly, for all Members, to be aware of what is going on and how it is decided in the Economic and Social Council, where the three partners, employers, workers and, of course, the government, when discussing wages, wage movements, as well as those vouchers that have been discussed, and I do not share the view with you that these vouchers are part of the earnings that are avoided from paying contributions and charged without contributions, without taxes. In fact, companies are using this to avoid paying wages. This is still necessary for the employees, as this will increase the pension base. I ask that we vote on this in accordance with the usual procedure tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you for the procedural proposal. In accordance with the other votes, we will take a decision at the meeting tomorrow. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. There are some differences between my list and the order of the questions sent and the correction before the meeting, I apologize for not being familiar with them. Comrade Tanko is absent, so it would be the turn of colleague Peter Levič and formerly called Bogomir the grandson in 15th place. I apologize for this exchange. Nothing is so critical yet. Peter Levich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Looks like we had a little bit of a misunderstanding. I am asking the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Dimovska. Even before, in 2002, we heard that a special programme on family policy and legislation is being prepared within your ministry to increase low birth rates in Slovenia and prevent further reductions in the number of births of children, which has fallen from 30 000 to 17 000 500 in the last two decades. We are all united that the family is the basic cell of society and yet there are no measures or programs to increase the number of families and births. In a survey of the economic and social situation of young families in Slovenia, experts find that fewer births are conditional on both objective and subjective reasons. Among the objective reasons affecting low fertility, the study identified employment, financial security, housing conditions, the ability to coordinate work and family life and the protection of children. These factors indirectly mean the late isolation of young people from their parents, which indirectly causes them to postpone their decision to be born, and thus, due to the biological clock, time for the second child is running out, sometimes even for the first child. Young people decide between the advantages of single and family life in their decision to be born, and more and more women are consciously deciding not to have children before their biological clock expires. From 5% in recent years, this figure has risen to 15%. Despite the fact that the decision to give birth to each individual and that it is clearly affected by the subjective reasons associated with the willingness to take or not to take responsibility, birth and motherhood in the past have always been a social norm, a social concern which the government should probably also have formed. Late isolation from parents, family decision after 30 years and modern consumer life also raises another question: reproductive health of men and women. These are men and women who, despite their desire for health reasons, cannot have children. In such a case, after four failed attempts, the couple will be without any assistance and all depends on the economic ability or chance happiness of the couple. Similar couples are estimated at between 5 and 10 thousand in Slovenia and we can all calculate what it would mean if all of these couples were allowed to have a child. Accordingly, I ask you: When will you prepare the promised national family programme? The promise was that the programme would be developed and presented in early 2003 and that this programme would contain measures in both the area of housing, school, health and social policy. When will the programme be ready and when will we start implementing it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you for asking. I ask Dr. Dimovski's Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much for that question. As you have already said in your question, it is a very complex subject of research or a complex subject with which we have been working for quite some time at the Ministry. I share your concern about the birthrate in Slovenia, because this issue is in fact linked to the whole spectrum of future and future development. As far as the issue of fertility is concerned, this is a very complex problem concerning sociological, political, economic, ideological and other factors. Because of this complexity, we have also decided that this issue, which was not accurate, at least in the last period, would not have been investigated, especially with the help of the profession, to find out what those fundamental issues are now, which should in some way be incorporated into the national family programme. We immediately joined the CRP in early 2001 or initiated a CRP programme to further discuss these issues. Here is a whole set of studies that are gradually being concluded and which already produce some of the first results that we have also published publicly and have also been presented in the media as the first parts of research within this CRP. In fact, the results of the family's analyses show this issue in a slightly different light than we have been used to so far. They present in particular the reasons why young people do not make decisions about children, primarily economic reasons, but also for the first time in these studies the quality of life of young people, freedom, travel, careers and so on, which should also affect the decision of young people and families for children. Some new risks and uncertainties regarding employment and career have also been identified. However, researchers in the Faculty of Social Sciences have also found that subjective opinions from respondents are based on what is called overly responsible parenthood. It says that, say, a child requires a multi percent commitment and so on, which they cited as one of the reasons why young people do not actually make decisions, and also, so to speak, the belief in the omnipotence of medicine. I am now briefly alone because I have a limited time here in response, and I have mentioned some of the factors that researchers have served us to represent a reduced, so to speak, decision for children. But let me say before I answer that final question that this issue of fertility is somehow in Slovenia, because we are already mostly comparing ourselves with the European Union, more or less, I would say, the problem of all European countries or countries of the European Union, where this net coefficient of reproduction is at the same level as in Slovenia. It is clear that there is a need to pay more attention to these issues and to this problem. In conclusion, I will say that we are concluding this national programme for the family that we have promised. Of course, it will then be channelled into cross-cutting coordination, in order to identify individual departments to address this issue from their own perspective, such as housing, social issues, economic issues and so on. However, let me say that researchers believe that some direction in this national programme would be called child care and a decision for the first child. This should provide concrete guidance in the formulation of this national family programme, and I believe that we will come to the public in a relatively short time with the draft or proposal of this national family programme and will then be able to discuss and discuss it much more.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on. In the meantime, I was warned that fellow Member Jože Tanko was absent from the disease, so I was excused that there would be no doubt. Mag. Janez Drobnic will be next to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary! For the question I am addressing, I actually got the idea from the monthly information issued by the Republic Employment Office. Let's see how this works. It refers to the issue of training and preparation for employment carried out by the Employment Service. In 2002, education and training programmes fell by 32%, according to the previous year, 2,000 persons were less involved in public works, 43% less self-employment, 5,000 so-called programmes, which means education and additional skills for the unemployed, which are included in the labour market, and only 3,900 had this number. We know that this program is named after the number of people involved. At the hearing, you mentioned that this programme would increase significantly and that this number would certainly be exceeded. In addition, we note from the report that most of the inclusions took place in the last quarter. 60% of all have been involved in the last quarter, which shows that the involvement was campaigning, otherwise it is impossible to explain. Completion of 80% in the last quarter, training with a working ratio of 60%. In addition, I note from the report that the number of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits and aid has decreased. You're talking about a society of knowledge, education for life, increased training. The existing practice shows exactly the opposite that Slovenia is going in a different direction. Not to increase knowledge, increase performance, but decrease. Please tell me the reasons why such a situation has occurred or why such a reduction in programs has occurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you for asking. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u95	First, I'd like to ask about the origin of this data because, given your question, I've obtained this data myself. It appears that the 5000 programme had 4,700 planned at the beginning of the year and that the actual inclusion was 5,200. It's said to be an index of 109. This is a concrete programme within the integration and employment programme. It also shows that, in the end, when we are talking about all of the resources, when we are talking only about the training and education programme, the practical index is 99.8, which means that the planning of these funds, I would say, and the actual execution of these funds is almost 100%, as originally intended. However, it is necessary within the year, and this modern employment policy certainly has to adapt to trends in the labour market. Adaptation to the labour market means that structural mismatches are largely eliminated. If you look at the full data of long-term employment, youth employment, women's employment and so on, then the data shows that sets of shares or structures are changing and that in some segments we are coming or are somehow being aligned with the structures of the European Union. In this policy, let me say that the main objective is to try to influence the so-called four-pillar system with the resources available in the active employment policy, to increase the employability of young people in particular in the integration of employment. In this context, an active employment policy is one that should in some way allow a higher level of employment for young people in particular, in order to facilitate their integration into the production process. But I will be happy to draw up this answer also with all the numbers that we will then provide in writing to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you. Another question, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you're just gonna have to talk to those services of yours so they can write different data. In this information, this is official information, it says what I told you. Therefore, it makes no sense for me to ask any more questions on this subject. That's all I'd ask you. If such an education and training objective is not achieved, nor does it use money and cash aid, then money has remained somewhere. And I'm going to ask you, what did you spend that money for if he stayed? Now, the other question that I was obliged to ask -- I hope you'll put it in the question quota because I didn't use it at the beginning. However, this issue concerns the Minister for Education and Sport, and it is also linked to this issue. Research has shown that 70% of adults between the ages of 56 and 65 do not reach the functional literacy required for normal integration into modern society. That's terrible information for Slovenia. When we talk about a society of knowledge, of the future, and I don't know what else, it completely undermines this picture of the success of this country. On the Ministry of Education's website, this programme is written in the introduction as follows: "Only by expanding the possibility of education will we approach the part of the world which considers education to be a fundamental human right and is aware that the knowledge acquired is the most reliable insurance against unemployment. An increasing number of young and adults wishing to continue their education after secondary school needed to adapt to the educational offer. We followed the developed world and decided to pursue a diversified study path. One theory, one prediction, one website, another practice. How to explain this to Slovenian citizens? Thank you very much for the additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you. First, I would call on the Minister to answer this additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u99	I think that this embarrassment will resolve the written report that I have already promised and also as regards the replacement. This will show how the funds were, why they were used, and what programs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you. On your second question, mag. However, the finer follows Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u101	The next question will be raised by Ambassador Sonja Areh Lavrič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear ministers, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The region of Koroška, which is statistically one of the poorest regions in Slovenia, is facing problems with drinking water in addition to the economic crisis, unregulated infrastructure, large unemployment, and consequently the removal of young educated experts from the region. Waters are being built too slowly, requiring too much funding from village communities, which are provided by countries with difficulty without the assistance of the State. The irregularity of this area not only in the region of Koroška but also in the wider area of Slovenia shows more and more information that has been emerging in the media lately. Let me just say, "smelling," brown tap water, that sort of thing. The fear of further deterioration of drinking water in Slovenia in the previous period is justified. I therefore ask the Minister of Environment and Space how the area of drinking water management is regulated in Slovenia. In the municipality of Slovenj Gradec, for example, there is a decree under which feces should not be used in nature or for the watering of agricultural land between 15 November and 15 March. Is there a similar legal provision that will regulate this area at the level of the whole of Slovenia? How often do drinking water analyses take place in Slovenia? Is it possible that under the guise of drinking water the water is also covered? How is control of the entire drinking water network regulated in Slovenia? For we know that a number of water pipes are inadequate, old, very poor or even asbestosic, but we know that health is very harmful. The fact is that the consequences of excessive pollution and this poor management of drinking water will be felt by all. It is therefore necessary to regulate the stricter criteria for the management of waste water, to update the drinking water network appropriately and to sanction the offenders accordingly. We must be aware that only countries with healthy drinking water will be rich countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you, honourable Member, that only countries with healthy drinking water will be able to say to themselves that they are countries of prosperity. But in Slovenia drinking water protection system or drinking water care has been functioning well for many years, but in fact we also have a problem. In fact, the water protection sector is divided into three areas: the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. For quality and health-friendly drinking water, what was in fact your central issue, the Ministry of Health is in charge and the agricultural sector is in charge of environmentally friendly farming and control of all types of emissions which, due to agricultural activities, would exacerbate the state of the environment, in particular drinking water. The Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy is responsible for the protection of watercourses and groundwaters, which are mainly a source of drinking water in most Slovenia. In particular, your question was about the introduction of fertilisers or fertilisers, it is officially said, into the soil. This regime in Slovenia regulates the Regulation on the introduction of dangerous substances and plant nutrients into the soil, which was adopted in 1996. This Regulation lays down the quantities of permitted introductions of different substances into the soil and lays down limit values and, in particular, the annual quantities in the areas of drinking water protection zones are allowed. This act, which is not just a municipal act, such as the one you mentioned, provides for: that manure with manure or manure on the soil, which is saturated with water, is prohibited on the ground covered with snow blankets, on the ground or on the high slopes where the manure flows on the surface. Fertilisation is generally prohibited on all frozen soils and on all water grounds. It's a general ban. In all other agricultural lands, which are not already covered by what I have said so far, they are, therefore, on other agricultural land without green blankets, generally prohibited from fertilising from 15 November to 15 February. In this specific municipal regulation, which you mentioned, it is written by 15 March, the state regulation refers to 15 February Fertilisation with Fertilizer is generally prohibited throughout the whole country on all building plots, on all non-fertilized land, and that is in fact all. There are certainly many fertilizers on such lands, especially because of the tradition of fertilizing in winter and when fields are snowed and so on. It's forbidden, by the way. The monitoring of the implementation of this Regulation shall be carried out by the competent environmental agricultural inspectors and by the inspectors responsible for the health care of the population. As far as the pollution of drinking water with manure is concerned, according to our experience, there are most problems in small village water systems where relationships with system operators and drinking water users are not regulated. There are no such problems wherever there are major regional public water pipelines. I'd like to mention the problem that you touched, by the way, the problem with asbestos pipes. Asbestos pipes are not dangerous, but they are porous and there is a large loss of drinking water, which is, after all, a damage to water supply and damage to the energy consumption of water that goes to waste because water flows to the underworld. However, let me mention that, as of 1 January this year, it has entered into force more stringently in Slovenia, the European Regulation on Allowable Quantities of Pesticides in Drinking Water - this is another issue, not related to manure or manure - and that the control system is functioning and we do not see any alarming cases anywhere. Except, like I said, I'm here and there occasionally on these little village plumbing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you, Mag. Janez the Digger. Would you like to ask me another question? No, no, no. Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior will raise the question of Ambassador Branko Kelemin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, you were gone last time, but I couldn't ask you a question. It's still on the table. Otherwise, I will continue where my fellow Member, Marija Ana Tisovic, ended up. You have already partly answered this question, but I want to illuminate it with other dimensions. I will say it as I intended last time that experts, not me personally, but experts in the field of criminology have found that the results of detection and prosecution of economic crime in Slovenia are catastrophic. We've talked about this a lot, and we're all in agreement. The reasons for this are, as noted by experts, particularly in the inadequate human resources structure at all levels of economic crime law enforcement bodies [[the police, the prosecution, the judiciary]] , even in poor working conditions, capable of going elsewhere - you have previously responded to the Member's, so that you do not have to answer this aspect in particular. But I'd like to point out something else. In fact, the worst part of all this is that legislation in this area is inadequate - especially the criminal code - or there is no legislation at all. We know that we do not yet have or know at what stage a national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime in the Republic of Slovenia. And we all know that the rulers, the government and the centres of power have obviously been conscious for years and years - I am consciously stressing - and deliberately, through its liberal political philosophy, creating and maintaining such a legal order that not only allows economic crime, but also protects and encourages it. I hope that you have read - I have already warned you - an article in the Journal of Journalist Suzanne Ranko and Vesna Vuković: excellent comments that expose all the backgrounds and weaknesses of the ministry in the area of detection of economic crime. And because of them, who have so thoroughly exposed these irregularities, it is worth reading the Diary. Look, it says here, "Policy doesn't start in the face of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary crisis. It seems that they prefer to listen to economic lobbying and help them legalise suspicious practices by failing to adopt legislation." And here experts are saying: in the country and in society, economic crime is causing billions of damages. I ask you because it is a broad political dimension of this question: Why does the authorities knowingly permit such a situation? When do you plan to amend legislation that will be appropriate for Europe and which will prevent economic crime in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much for this question, although the issue of crime and the criminal police in general has been announced, and you, if I understand correctly, have now focused only on economic crime, which I have already talked about before, but would only deepen some of the answers to economic crime and put it into a slightly broader context. With regard to the criminal police and its activities in Slovenia, I must say that the standards of its operation are internationally comparable both by way of operation and by degree of investigation or by its results, so I should express my disagreement with the assessment now, but I do not know whether yours or anyone has been quoted as saying that the results in the area of criminal detection are catastrophic. This assessment is simply not correct. It is true that the rate of investigation of crimes of general crime is growing statistically for us, especially in the field of organised crime and in the area of classical and property crime, the degree of investigation lately even over the European increase - here I should demarcate you with statistics, but I do not believe that you have this in mind. However, if you have only had economic crime in mind, then I must express my agreement, as I have said before: that this is not the question - as I say - of this period, but that the crisis of controlling economic crime has been going on for at least a decade, starting with the privatisation process, and also now that we are entering the post-transition period when we are not in control or are not completely in favour of the new complex forms of economic crime. The reasons for this, as previously said, are that in the past the country has not developed enough criminal knowledge and even personnel from this narrower, i.e. economic, field. The people have not been able to keep pace with time, so we are already in the past year - but in the short term, the government will have a more detailed consideration of exactly all aspects of the problem of economic crime, in order to try to tackle this unfortunate trend from the past even during the period we are now in control. A large part of the reasons therefore relate to staff and education, and partly to legislation. Earlier, there was no time to say: it was not a criminal code, I said that at least in the areas of economic crime the criminal code was modern, it included all new crimes from internal trafficking, abuse of internal information, etc. What we also criticise and want to amend this law on criminal proceedings or the powers of the police in the proven procedure - you know for sure that colleague Bizjak has already prepared a amendment to the law on criminal proceedings, which includes a change in this area in the sense that the hearing of the investigators that the police will conduct in a manner such as that of the Criminal Procedure Act will be considered a hearing by the investigating judge, provided that the defendant is present as evidence in the criminal proceedings. On this issue, we are not in line with most European legislation and it is right to amend the CAP as soon as possible in this part and this will certainly contribute to enhancing the efficiency and rationality of police work; taking its work into account in the evidentiary proceedings before the court. Of course, we will also draw attention to the emerging strategy in the area of combating economic crime. We have a 1997 strategy against economic crime, which has not come true because it has not been financially supported; a new and national programme is now being prepared - thank you very much for remembering - the fight against crime that we will present to the National Assembly before the end of this year's first half. For what year we have been working on this national programme, which could have perhaps 10, 12 separate areas for different types of crime, including economic crime, and this will be the basis for the coordination group's activities, which will be established by the government from the types of prosecutors, money laundering institutions, corruption, tax, customs and similar institutions, to be able to harmonise their actions and, above all, to harmonise the development of personnel in this area so that the human resources market will be competitive in this area. However, there is also an opportunity in the new wage system in the public sector to close the gap between related profiles, such as a criminal specialist, an investigative judge, a prosecutor and a tax inspector, and to prevent the transition and unfair competition of different institutions: what is today one of the reasons for fluctuations due to wage disparities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you. Another question, colleague Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u110	With a comment, of course, "That's not true, it is!" In fact, Mr. Minister, I understand that this is a long time, inherited so to speak, within your mandate. But for God's sake, this is about continuity! You can't make excuses for 20 years because you're only two years now a minister that some area remains disorderly. It's a political aspect! Deliberately, intentionally, legislation and the whole procedure under the CAP and also under criminal law and other documents are not implemented or legislation adopted is such that it is not actually possible to arrest anyone. And the staff you speak of depart also because they have not been paid, even so. I talked to certain experts in this area, and they told me that under such conditions, they cannot work for such money, and they go to other jobs. And you do not do anything in this area completely, and the authorities support it, of course, those behind it who benefit from it - but this is a liberalistic way of thinking. And, please, I hope you've read your article since December 14, although you often say, "What are we going to read?" No, the press is helping to spread these things, and here's exactly where the heart of the problem is. And please, for God's sake, give us something to do in the field of legislation, because what is happening to us in the area of economic crime is really unsustainable, unsustainable! And if, of course, you are going to continue with such a system and liberalistically allow this crime to continue, then tell the Slovenian public that others who have not yet been involved will benefit from these measures. In short, this is unsustainable and you have to do something here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you. I'm asking for this part of the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u112	Our work in this area, which is very actively focused on all the causes of falling behind in the area of combating economic crime, has no political dimension, no political background. On the contrary! We have submitted a novel or new law on public sector wages last year, adopted by the National Assembly, and this law is one of the opportunities to eliminate disparities that are at the expense of certain types; police specialists also in the field of economic crime. This is an opportunity to be done this year. We have also submitted, in a short time, a bill on the police, which is also a more successful fight in this area. Approximately 70 articles of the Police Act are being amended. And, as you have heard, this is the competence of a colleague and it is also in the process of amending the law on criminal proceedings. It would therefore be difficult to accept the assessment that we are not dealing with the problems of not proposing legislation, but unfortunately I must agree with the assessment that this is one inherited area, which has been very neglected and must be taken very seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you. My colleague Bojan Kontič gave up the question, so I give the floor to Bogomir Vnuč to ask the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking the Minister of Transport the following questions. When will it be legally possible for private individuals to carry out road and helicopter rescue in the mountains? I was encouraged by the accident that happened a few weeks ago, which we all heard about, because two Hungarian tourists in the mountains had failed, inadequately equipped, a helicopter from Brnik could not take off because of the bad weather, so a unit or group of mountain rescuers from Mojstrana went to rescue these two unfortunates. In doing so, they were showered by the snowblow, and one of them died, unfortunately, because Brnika’s helicopter could not take off, we can say that this tragic event was the result. On a personal request, the following day, a private helicopter, although not registered for this activity, traveled from Lesce airport, where the weather conditions are significantly different from that of Brnik. So I ask: When will the law also allow private people, because we have recently witnessed that certain successful economists and successful professionals in other professions decide to purchase such vessels, which - I can say - are also technically and otherwise better than our police - at least some - and there are no reasons not to allow them this type of activity. Especially in terms of both competitiveness and prices, as such summers are cheaper. The example of the supply of mountain stands clearly shows that these individuals are much cheaper than the police. On the other hand, the police would also be relieved and their fleet would then be available for their primary activities. Perhaps the question is not strictly addressed to the Minister of Transport, but given that there is an aviation office within the Ministry, I think it makes sense for the Minister of Transport to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you. I'm asking Minister Jacob President for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you so much for asking. Finally, you have rightly concluded that the question raised or the answer to this question is not within the competence of the Ministry of Transport. A similar question has been raised once in this National Assembly, and was then answered by the Ministry of Health. I believe that today too the issue must be addressed to this ministry. In doing so, I would point out that the Ministry of Transport or its constituent body, its constituent body, is the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is the competent administrative authority to issue a special authorisation to carry out rescue activities with helicopters by which a legal or natural person proves that it fulfils the conditions for professional staff and the necessary organisation and that it can ensure the safe operation of aircraft in the field of helicopter rescue. While the rescue organisation is not under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport in both the mountains and the helicopter roads, it is the Ministry of Health. That is why I will also address this issue personally directly to the Ministry of Health and we will also be working with the Department - and perhaps other departments, such as defence and internal affairs - to answer this question within the prescribed time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you. Another question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! On purpose, I mentioned what I said, because it seems to me that the aviation administration is an integral part of the ministry, it would be right, not only for this case, but for all others, too - it is said when an issue arises - that if there is an office, the administration, the agency, that then this deck solves the problem, because, as you have found out, this problem is not new. The main problem I wanted to mention, however, is that the police are stationed in Brnik and accidents are happening in bad weather. And in bad weather, it's always blurry on Brnika. At other airports you are not, at least in this respect, as far as the weather conditions are concerned. Of course, we can't influence the weather by 90%. The private sector is scattered all over Slovenia. So, I think it would be a lot easier, not just from the profitable activities of these privates, but just because there are no purely personal contacts and at the level of some knowledge, but that it can be organised without any harm, both for those who go into such action, because the end of the risk is their own life, at least in this last case it was. I would therefore appeal here to the Minister that if nothing is yet being done that this Aviation Authority initiates this initiative and that legislation is being adapted here, and on the other hand that we know that this solution is free of charge for those participants and that it is also, say, those who cause such action because of their own indiscretion to pay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you. You still want to answer that? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u120	I think I've explained enough. The Aviation Authority, as the body of the Ministry of Transport, shall, by means of a document, certify those aircraft and those vehicles which are also suitable for rescue or other activities. However, I reiterate that others are responsible for the organisation of rescue in our country. And that's why I said we'd come up with a common response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you. Ambassador's colleague Silva Montenegro, from now on mag. Silva Montenegro will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u122	Given that the Minister of Health, Dr Kebra, is not, and in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will place this issue at the next meeting because I intend to raise it orally to the Minister. Otherwise, a computer error has been made with regard to my name - just so much information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u123	I meant congratulations. Thank you very much. So, let's take the question to the next session. Dr. Joseph Bernik is next to question the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question will not be particularly long or complicated, but it is the following that data appears in public - I do not know how accurate they are - about the fact that it has already occurred and that there are still major errors in judicial decisions and then also large damages that the state must pay for the poor conduct of the courts and perhaps even the state prosecutors - and the police may not be as much as I understand. So, the point is that, if I understand correctly, there were at least 54% of the 292 first-degree judgments in 2002 or around 158, if I understand correctly, cases that were dropped and that these were, at least so said, lawsuits of the courts, of the state prosecutors. He doesn't mention it as much as I know, the police. Of course, lawyers are a puzzle, for the greatest, I would say, cases have come to the point that they have been abolished and now everyone can guess why, because of the ability of lawyers or something like that. I would like to ask you: Do you have any information as to the amount of compensation that has to be paid? That's how many are in the air right now. Next: What control and plan do you have to improve your situation? Where's the state's attorney? Can you plant a fire under her office to move something? Finally: What do other countries do to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. I'm asking for an answer from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u126	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members! First of all, maybe a few words about the above-mentioned mistakes, as you said. So, it is true that there have been some rather repulsive annulments of judgments, and for various reasons, all in connection with processes that have otherwise been quite at the heart of media attention. Part of these annulments relates to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which decided last year that certain evidence must not be in the file and, even more so, that a judge who has had the opportunity to familiarise himself with certain inadmissible evidence cannot decide on the matter which he has been informed of. In some cases, therefore, a number of annulments relate to such cases, and in some cases it was simply not possible to act differently at the first stage. On some others, it might be possible to carry out some other procedures differently if this decision was taken with sufficient care. At the same time, however, I would like to mention that not all repeals concern precisely this reason, i.e. the decision of the Constitutional Court. What I understood from the introduction of the question was that I was trying to draw up some numbers that I hope to at least some extent shed some light on the questions you are interested in. So it's the annual figures, the figures at the annual level, and for example, the basic information is that the state prosecutor's office discussed 43,112 complaints together last year. These were saved by 32217. In the first instance, in view of the period considered, 7,400 convictions, 867 convictions and 2,936 rebuttal judgments were handed down. The prosecution brought 1,208 complaints to the decisions of the first instance, of which 325 were granted, 123 were rejected and the rest are still pending. From these figures it is possible to conclude in some way how successful the prosecution is in individual cases. In any case, however, we can quickly see that the number of convictions, but significantly exceeds the number of free judgments or that the ratio is, so in grave, almost 1:10. You're asking about the damages. Therefore, according to the State Defence Office, 35 settlements totalling 145 million good were concluded in 2002 due to an unjustified conviction. It is therefore a settlement where the defence authorities have found that this is a legitimate claim and where the other party has agreed. Due to unjustified detention, there were 16 settlements last year for a total of 6 million and a good 800,000 tolars. Where no settlement is made, the Court also ruled on compensation and, between 2000 and the end of last year, the Office received 55 legal judgments for the total compensation of a good 289 million tolars. By the way, let me point out that I note that the National Assembly's parent committee is also on the agenda for the 2001 Joint State Prosecutor's Report, and I expect that some questions can be answered in the course of that hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thanks, mag. Ivan Bizjak. Dr. Bernick would like to ask you an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your answer. And I would ask the following question: What is your competence here, what can you do and what do you plan to do? I would also ask: Is our situation comparable, for example, with other countries in Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. And, please, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u130	Well, see, as regards the powers of the Ministry of Justice, it is a fundamental competence here to propose appropriate legislation. Today it has already been mentioned here several times, and in the media we have already presented amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which primarily solves those problems on which the Constitutional Court has found non-conformity with the Constitution. Of course, we are also trying to make certain changes, in particular in the forecasting process, to make this as effective as possible, so that the prosecution's orientation against the police will be more effective so that more relevant evidence can be collected in this way, which can then also contribute to appropriate further action. Secondly, the Ministry is preparing a comprehensive amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, for which we have already initiated a specific research project in the past year to provide a basis for the best possible regulation, including the collection of experience in various regulations and thus the search for appropriate grounds for our decision on which system to choose. On the other hand, it must be said that the criminal procedure is also one where the correctness of the decision at the first stage is checked in the instance. And even in this context, it is extremely important, according to our assessment, that the system of evaluation of the judge's work takes place within the judiciary itself, but by the personal councils of the higher courts, which undoubtedly have a good view of the level of judicial decision-making one degree lower. So, like this, I would say, the quality of the evaluation, I think that there is still a need to improve, although it is not yet far from the time when, in fact, the competence of the evaluation has changed so that it now belongs to an immediate court. Well, and in this way, I think you can undo too many mistakes. On the other hand, it is true that frequent changes in material and procedural legislation have an impact on the fact that such procedural errors can be made more, and it is therefore an effort to achieve as stable a legal order as possible, which will then prevent and provide much better options for quality judicial decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Franz Sušnik will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Regional Development, who is not here. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In the second half of February, the municipalities and members of the National Assembly received a new calculation of appropriate spending and financial compensation. The Government adopted this calculation at its 8th regular meeting on 13 February 2003, and, as I have already said, you have informed everyone who needs to be informed. The table below shows that the corresponding financial compensation of SIT 36 billion,893 million, is less than SIT 2.883 billion in 2003, adopted by the Government at the 91st Correspondence Meeting of 10.10.2001 and this decision of the Government made us familiar with the mayors. This decision, however, was the basis for the preparation and adoption of most of the budgets already adopted by the municipalities for 2003. Thus, the undisputed grave breach of the essential principle of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, which is intended to ensure that data for the calculation of the appropriate consumption and the corresponding financial compensation are prepared so that each municipality will know, before the start of the financial year, what resources will be eligible from the State budget. This is not the case with the adoption of the February decision. The Government's decision to set the amount of financial compensation for 2003 of 12.2.2003 of 26 billion 893 million is a total of 127 million dollars lower than the sum that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30.11.2001 in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 has earmarked under the name of the "current Trendsphers" to the other level of the State for financial compensation to municipalities and for a total of 1 million and 570 thousand 258 thousand, for a total of 570 million tolars less than the revised budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. Here, in particular, I would like to point out that we have also opposed this reduction in appropriate spending or financial balances when the revised budget is adopted. Now I'm asking the minister. What are the reasons for such a drastic reduction in funds allocated to the municipalities, especially to rural municipalities - 165 municipalities are covered here - and 28, in particular, to the local communities, create and at the same time consume a little less than 24 billion surpluses of income over the appropriate consumption? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u133	I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you so much for asking. Now, in accordance with the provisions of the Community Financing Act, the Ministry of Finance is primarily responsible for the preparation of the calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities and determines the extent of the corresponding financial compensatory resources to those municipalities whose own revenue is not sufficient to cover the appropriate consumption. At present, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore adopted, on the basis of the amount of resources allocated to a certain amount of eligible expenditure per capita for 2002 and 2003, a calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities for 2003 and the amounts of the corresponding financial resources for this financial year. These first figures on the corresponding financial compensation were received by the municipalities in October 2001, because the 2002 and 2003 budget was also being prepared and the last in February of this year, as you mentioned. Following the initial calculation of the appropriate consumption, this was in October 2001, and the estimated own revenue of the municipalities during the same period were estimated at the necessary additional resources to be provided to municipalities in 2003 to a greater extent than was calculated on the basis of data from the estimated revenue of the municipalities for 2001. In the latter calculation, the basis for the assessment of the municipality's own income was actually the realised resources of the municipality's own income by type over the period from 1.1 to 31.12. On the basis of the newly established relationship between the weighted income of the debtors who have permanent residence in the municipality, the income from this title is calculated from the 2001 decisions made for the year 2003. As the revenue evolution was found to be higher than originally estimated in October 2001, changes in the amount of the necessary financial compensatory measures to be received by individual municipalities have been made. From the calculation received by the municipalities for 2003 in this month, it is thus clear that, at the estimated level of their own revenue, the amount of supplementary resources allocated by the budget for these purposes is sufficient to cover the calculated deficit of financial compensation in all municipalities. During the year, the municipalities will thus be subject to monthly financial compensatory payments, which are intended to cover the calculated amount of eligible expenditure. In September 2003, according to the applicable legislation, the municipality's own revenue will be re-evaluated and based on this data - after actual realisation of revenues over the period from 1.1 to 31.8. 2003 - a new volume of necessary financial compensation will be calculated. Since a final settlement is made after the year’s end, all municipalities are guaranteed, under existing legislation, that they have full coverage of the appropriate expenditure calculated under the provisions of the applicable law on the financing of municipalities. Comparative data on the amount of eligible consumption per capita for 2003 compared to 2002 clearly show that, with the specific provision of additional resources for culture, housing and municipal activities, adequate consumption per capita is increasing by 8.3%, which is higher than estimated to increase living costs for 2003. Therefore, taking these data into account, the resources of the calculated range of appropriate consumption of municipalities are increasing as a result. The initially calculated extent of the appropriate consumption of municipalities is thus not changed. Only the corresponding financial compensatory funds have changed to the municipalities due to the newly assessed own income.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thanks for the answers. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u136	The fact is, all you have said is true, but we believe that the calculated level of financial settlement, as I have already said, is 4 billion less than the initially adopted budget, 1.5 billion less than the new budget, mainly due to unrealisticly estimated own revenues. The fact is that, with 1.1, the change in destination has also been abolished as one of the sources of municipal budgets by implementing the building law, and it is evident that own revenues are also unrealistically assessed on the average that you know what I'm talking about. It is undeniable that in this way rural communities in particular are deprived of at least 1.5 billion funds. I therefore ask further whether this is already the announcement of the budget rebalancing. And: How is this act or decision in line with the Government's repeated policy of advocacy for coherent regional development? The fact is that 165 municipalities, from the countryside, are deprived of at least 1.5 billion, if not 29 more, by a new calculation of financial compensation resulting from unrealistically valued revenues. All of us in this National Assembly have had the opportunity to see this divider, and even the findings by the municipalities are such that 20 and 10 are, and I do not know how many more, millions of individuals have lost the envisaged financial imbalances. So I would like you to try to answer me again: What led you, or what were you thinking, or what are the arguments for such a high estimate of your projected own income under Articles 21 and 22? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you. I'm asking for an additional reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u138	I would say that this is not the beginning of a rebalancing, but it is simply a matter of following a law in which the law determines on the basis of which periods are estimated the income of the municipalities and, of course, on the basis of the calculation, appropriate consumption in individual municipalities is provided at the level prescribed. I would point out once again that it is an increase of 8.3% of the eligible expenditure for each municipality, so that we see no cause for concern here, because it will be a real increase in terms of 5.1% of the projected rate of inflation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you. It is only Samo Bevk's turn to question the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Over the last two years, I have asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance three questions and one initiative to amend and supplement the Law on Community Financing. In response to the first question, I have been asked at the 4th meeting of 20 March 2001 by the then Minister of Finance, Mag. Anton Rop replied, quote, "that the starting points for amending the Law on Community Financing are already ready and that we will start an intensive discussion in the next ten days on individual starting points for the final preparation of the law both within the government coalition and in the national assembly." Within a bad year, State Secretary Helena Kamnar also answered the repeated questions at two sessions and assured me that the government would adopt the law by the end of March 2002 and send it into parliamentary procedure. As far as I know, the government coalition has appointed a special working group, which has met several times and formed a starting point for amending the law. The text of the law has also been drafted by the Finance Ministry, but it is not clearly political will for the government to deal with it, adopt it and send it into the national assembly procedure. A number of Slovene municipalities, including the municipality of Idrija, are heavily deprived of acid because of a highly controversial formula for the calculation of significant consumption, which does not take into account the specific geographical specificities of their territory and the social and age structures of the population. Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities on State co-financing of municipal investments and whose main criterion is the amount of income per capita are also very controversial. For example, it was unacceptable to provide that 30 Slovenian municipalities receive only 10% of the financial participation for investment in primary school space and other investments by the country. In my view, the proposed amendments to local government regulations and legislation should also amend the law on the financing of municipalities. I ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mramor, when will the Ministry of Finance undertake this project or amendments to the existing law on the financing of municipalities? I am also interested in the Minister's position on the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption of municipalities and, of course, his position on the issue of Article 26 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which was also addressed by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you so much for asking. You are right that this law has long been in existence and that the working group that was established has come, let's say that it has been unified in the substantive approach to the drafting of the new law, but has not reached the final agreement and therefore has stopped work on this document before the local elections. I would say that this year this is in the government's programme, 2003 as one of the priorities and our ministry was the one that proposed it in the government's programme, so of course we are behind this proposal. With regard to the starting points that are crucial here, I would say that here I have written down six of these key points that will have to be met in this law and reached a consensus. First of all, to eliminate the existing imbalance between the incomes of municipalities available for the financing of basic tasks - so today, on one side of the municipality, we have substantial revenues over the appropriate consumption, on the other hand, of the municipality, which must be provided with substantial additional resources from the state budget for this purpose. That's the first problem. Second, because of these solutions, which will be defined in the new Income Law, it will also be necessary to approach a substantively different distribution of income by municipality. Thirdly, it will be necessary to redefine what are the actual revenues of the municipalities that are supposed to have them in place and what will be the own revenues that will be taken into account to cover the appropriate spending. Fourthly, due to some deficiencies in the calculation of the appropriate consumption, the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption will need to be corrected accordingly. Fifthly, to change the key to the allocation of additional funds to be provided to municipalities for the co-financing of investments, this is Article 26. And six times, it will be necessary to explore the possibilities for additional indebtedness of the municipalities if their own revenues allow them to do so. This would be the six main starting points, which I think should now be finalized and then put into Parliamentary Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue, and colleague Ivan Mamić will also ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much. My question is this. At a recent press conference, the Minister of Finance announced that he intended to achieve a reduction and improvement in the structure of public financial expenditure, including through the rationalisation of public administration. One of the public administration spending items is its fleet. For this is a question that I have also received in the field, and many times people ask me. I would like to know how extensive it is and whether it is included in the rationalisation programme and how? Mostly I'm thinking about replacing audios with Mercedes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you for asking. Please, again, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you so much for asking. The service of the common services of the Republic of Slovenia is legally responsible for the question of how much, how much and how extensive this car park is. Nevertheless, I agree that this is one area where rationalisation is possible and necessary. This is why, in the context of the procurement and construction plan adopted by the Government in accordance with the budget, it has also been agreed that each budgetary user has to provide a very precise description of the purchases of basic assets, including the important item on the purchase of cars, on the specific form, of the individual underlying asset with all the data that will show essentially the price in addition to these specifications. This will be published transparently on the websites. This will put indirect pressure on budget users to, I would say, transparently see what they are getting. Secondly, by centralising records and purchasing we will try to achieve significantly better conditions and, of course, we will review the entire fleet, assessing the necessity and then deciding on the purchases of cars for individual budget users. This is certainly how we will try to introduce this rationalisation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you. Are you still asking for an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u148	I mentioned audio and Mercedes. How are things going with these things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u149	I have to say that the Ministry of Finance is really not responsible for this, but we can provide you with an answer from the common services service in writing to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you, Minister. Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Honorable ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the media we could see quite a few controversy and sharp articles regarding the alleged shortcomings in the work of the Chamber of Private Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular with regard to the procedures for granting a licence for physical and technical protection. According to this information, the operation of the Chamber was also checked by the Ministry of the Interior inspection. According to other information, a new law on private protection is also being prepared, for which it was somehow announced that by the end of December last year it will be in the parliamentary process, but so far it has not, at least after the information we have, yet this has not happened. I therefore wonder: Did the Ministry of the Interior Inspectorate really oversee the operations of the Chamber? And with regard to this law: When will it be submitted to the parliamentary procedure? Ter: Will this law actually put an end to the alleged disputed proceedings at the Chamber, or will the solutions really go in this direction to resolve the dilemmas related to the powers of private security and to control the functioning of this Chamber? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you for asking. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, please answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u153	I thank you for this question. It is true, Mr Member, that a new law on private protection is being prepared in preparation or more specifically. Interresor coordination was carried out in January. Right now, on the committee, at the government's legislative service, I'm counting on the law to go into government procedure this week or next. This law deals with the issues you are talking about on a new basis. It's going to change the position of this chamber quite a bit. The essence of this law is, in a much more effective way than has been the case so far, to regulate the issue of licensing as well as supervision in this regard and education and national qualifications in the various categories of private protection. I would like to ask your question whether there has been control, confirmation, or a yes. The administrative inspection of the Ministry of the Interior carried out supervision of the operations of the Chamber on 21.10.2002, and I can say that there were also records of findings indicating a number of irregularities in the functioning of this Chamber. In particular, the irregularity related to three companies or the supervision of administrative procedures was carried out in relation to ENIGMA d.o.o., and the physical protection of Kosič Dragan and the company [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] These three companies, or an entrepreneur and two private security companies and the licensing procedures carried out by the Chamber. [[...]] Let me reiterate that there have been some irregularities with regard to the conduct of administrative procedures in the Chamber which are not conducted, at least after the findings of the minutes, are correct. In two cases, a complaint was lodged with the second-degree body. The resolution of this complaint is ongoing or we will be able to notify you of the final decisions of the Office of the Ministry of the Interior when these decisions are issued at the second stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you, Minister for your answer. It would now be the turn of Ambassador Majda Zupan, but she is not present, so Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor to ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking her a question. My question concerns similar wasteful and corrupt treatment of finance in the Slovenian Development Society, as has already been dealt with in the case of SIB bank here in Ljubljana. The Court of Auditors' report on the operation of the Slovenian Development Company in 2001 shows that between the costs of material and services in 2001 the largest share of costs under contracts for intellectual and personal services amounted to more than 407 million tolars, which increased significantly in relation to 2000, despite the fact that the Slovenian Development Company's assets and liabilities decreased by 45 % this year, the SRD has practically halved and needs are constantly increasing. The Court of Auditors' report shows that the bulk of these funds have landed in the pockets of the so-called always-devoted same persons who are linked to the system of connected persons between themselves and the management of the SRD. On the basis of contracts similar to those in the case of the billions of awards for the leadership of Elan. We know that this leadership has won a billion and 400 awards, that's for 60 housing units. In addition to the already known more than a billion awards, the report shows that the management of Elan through Korže d.o.o. provided a further advisory service contract of at least 1.5 million German brands. Similar contracts were secured by SRD management by managers operating TAM assets because it is now renamed the Maribor Vehicle Factory. In the last year, 102 million tolars were received for the operation of TAM assets, which is 37% higher than in the previous year. In addition, the SRD provided them with a contract award for the operation of the assets located in TAM Maribor. This prize amounted to 2.1% a year from the average book value of the property - a very strange base. According to SRD Mr Cerar, president of the TVM Assembly, this amounted to 1 million 200 000 German Marks. From the above-mentioned cases referred to by the Court of Auditors, it is clear that, with the assistance and knowledge of the Ministry and the management of the SRD, the organisation of over $1 billion in assets of the SRD is to be held in private pockets. Apparently it's connected persons, according to our information, it's in the case of Mr Koržet, Mr Gazvoda, director of TVM, who are closer relatives. Apparently close relatives, related contracts. I ask the Minister why she did not take action after the payment of the account to the Court of Auditors. Why does the Slovenian Development Company need more contractual services every year when the number and value of companies in its ownership is rapidly decreasing? Who offered political support for the obvious phenomena of nepotism, clientism and corruption within the Slovenian Development Society? All managers in Elan and the Maribor Vehicle Factory have monthly salaries of over 13,000 marks, and the Slovenian Development Company has also granted them awards that go into hundreds of millions. Meanwhile, employees in their factories have lousy salaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u156	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you so much for asking. I must say that the Ministry of Economy has not received this report. It is evident from the letter from the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia that the report was sent to the Slovenian Development Society d.d., Dr. Marjan Rekar, National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Why I have it before me now is that we received it together with an invitation to participate in the privatisation subcommittee of the Committee of the National Economic Assembly. We have only just received this document. But I can say that these problems will be reduced, or we expect them not to be, because, as you know, the SRD is in liquidation. The liquidation decision was adopted in July 2002 and, of course, by this decision, the liquidation manager has significantly less powers than the administration. Of course, he can't start new business, he can only liquidate business, that's what he says, especially paying off creditors and so on. However, if there is already a need for new business to be concluded due to the liquidation process, it cannot do so without consent.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thanks for the answer. Are you asking for a supplement to the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much. That the Ministry did not receive this report from the Court of Auditors, it is for three years, I do not believe, because you were also invited as the Ministry to the subcommittee meeting where we discussed it. It's just not possible. It's the biggest shame I could ever get an answer like that. Your subordinates must inform you of such irregularities. That is a fact and such an excuse cannot be made. However, such contracts clearly cannot be concluded without, I would say, a hand washes the hand in the system. That they also have some of those who prepare them, which they sign. As far as I am aware, some of these treaties have been signed by Mr Rekar, but now there is a just and a sanator where there is a similar case. Then I would also ask this: Why did the Slovenian Development Society bring guidance from Ljubljana in the case of the Maribor Vehicle Factory? Is it because a lot of money, apparently sent to Maribor, came to private accounts back to Ljubljana? I am also interested in which business in the Maribor Vehicle Factory was carried out through private companies of leading workers in TVM. What's in the report is just the tip of the iceberg. Apparently, Slovenia's development society through these contracts, such as with Elan, and apparently more, because the Court of Auditors has examined only sample cases, and there are clearly more of these contracts, by way of fact all the purchases, what should go into development. These are such prizes, for example, even in the case of a hundred textile workers who would receive a salary of 200,000 monthly gross, which would be a nice salary for them. It's just a prize, plus a month's worth of 13 or 15,000 German marks. Madam Minister, do you take political responsibility and resign? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Again, I must say that we have not received this material, that I have this material that has been sent to the subcommittee. It shows exactly who they sent it to. I reiterate that the Slovenian Development Society is not a body within the Ministry of the Economy, but is a company of shares and operates according to the ZGD. The Supervisory Board is watching over the operation, not the shareholder as the government. As a result, the SRD workers were not subordinated to me, as the directors of the offices and the authorities in the composition have to answer. Because of this, and we've said it many times before, I really don't understand that it's so hard to understand. I just can't answer any more about this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you. This question is closed. My friend Aloise Sok would be next, but he's not here. That is why the last of the list of Members for questions, France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u163	Given that I have prepared very serious current questions, it is very important, and because I wanted to get a concrete answer, but the Minister is not, I will put the question to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-24-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you. These were questions from Members and Members of Parliament. I thank the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers for the answers given and for their participation in the meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for your cooperation and good night!
