ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u1	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come into the big hall. It's 10 a.m. and we'll continue the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. As you know, a package of ratifications awaits us. Then I'd like to make an agreement with you on the procedure. Since we will make immediate decisions, the view of the hall tells me that there is not enough to attend, so this time I must call an exceptional colleague and colleagues, immediately to the hall. I ask everyone to put the ballot in the voting machine and at the same time check whether it works normally, and I will also have the attendance review myself. Can we reach an agreement after ratifications to move to a decision on the harmonisation amendments to the proposal for a law on wild and hunting? This amendment was already ready yesterday, and I think you all got it on the bench and studied it. Let me tell you, after the 30th item of the agenda, we'd move on to the decision of this law and then on the agenda. I see there are no contracts. Now I think we've had enough of us here to make decisions. My colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! Today we will therefore continue and conclude the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the last regular meeting this year. Before we go to the debates, let me just tell you who is missing today for excusable reasons: colleagues Kebrič, Kopushar, Špindler, Švagan, Zamernik, from 1 p.m. to 1 p.m. to 12.30 p.m. there will be no colleague Majda Širca. We'll move on to 22. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illegal drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and previous compounds and terrorism. The proposal for a law was submitted to the assembly by the Government. Does the Minister want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, do qualified debaters want a word on all ratifications? [[No, no, ……]] Therefore, no amendment was adopted by the competent labour body to this law in the second reading, so that there is no debate on articles and amendments. We can go to the third hearing, that's to decide on the bill. Now I ask the peace of the court. We'll move on to a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the law ratifying this agreement. We're voting. 48 present, 46 for and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] This ratification law has been adopted. This concludes the agenda item. We're at 23. Agenda items - This is the German Government's proposal for ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on mutual security of confidential data. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the Minister want a word? No, no, no. Do qualified discussers want a word? Not at all. Then we could go to the third hearing to decide on the law. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote in the law. 51 present, 48 for, one up. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and that the agenda has been concluded. We're at the next 24. Agenda items - When defending the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on defence cooperation. Does the Minister want a word? Other qualified debaters? Nobody. In the context of the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a decision. We are voting on the proposal for a law ratifying this agreement. 51 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. And the point is closed. 25. The agenda item is the Defence Proposal for a Protocol Ratification Act in cooperation with the Member States in the negotiation of ship-building and in the event of extraordinary events in the fight against the modernisation of the Mediterranean Sea. Does the Minister want a word? Other qualified debaters? Nobody. In the context of the third hearing, we will now move on to a decision on the law. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 49 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. And the point is closed. We're at 26. Agenda items - When discussing the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on the amendment of the Convention on International and Rail Transport of 9 April 2009 May 1980. The bill was proposed by the government. Does the Minister want a word? Neither do I. Other qualified debaters? Nobody. In the context of the third reading, we will move on to a decision. We're voting. 53 present, 52 for, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. The point is closed. Next one's 27. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Further Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in the Partnership for Peace on the Status of Their Forces Minister, you want a word? No, no, no. Other qualified debaters. In the context of the third reading, we will move on to a decision on the law of ratification. We're voting. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a decision. 53 present, 52 for, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. 29. POINT - PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE COUNCIL OF THE MINISTRY OF SERVER AND BLACK GROWTH ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBT COOPERATION RELATING TO THE COOPERATION Minister, you want a word now? No, no, no. Other qualified debaters? Neither do I. Therefore, we can move through the third reading to a full decision on the law. We're voting. We are voting on the law on ratification of this agreement. 54 present, 54 for, and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This law has been adopted. The general here is warning me that I skipped 28. Point - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Polish Republic on Maritime Transport We'll decide about him now. Minister, other qualified discussers? No, no, no. Then, in the context of the third reading, we will vote on the law on ratification of this Agreement. We're voting. 52 present, 51 for and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] This proposal has been adopted and the item has been completed. We have the last point in the field of ratification, 30. POINT - PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE PROTOCOL ON HEAVY CLAIMS AND THE 1979 CONVENTION ON THE DISTENSION OF AIR TO GREAT DISTRIBUTION EXTERMINATION I see no one wants a word. This allows us to move on to decision-making in the context of the third reading. We are voting on the law on ratification of this Protocol. 55 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This law has been adopted and the point has been closed. As I have predicted, we will now move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments to the proposal of the Wildlife and Hunting Act. Can we please focus on this question? Then we'll go to the 31st item of the agenda. First we have the amendment to Article 18, then the amendment to Article 22, to Article 48, then to Article 75, 76, 77 and 77a. and 80th Articles. That's what we'll decide. Can we start with the decision? That's it. We'll go to the amendment to Article 18. It's about the harmonisation amendments. I'm going to conduct the procedure clearly and loudly, so there will be no misunderstandings. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. The national assembly will then decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 18. We're voting. 58 present, 46 for and 10 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] This harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 22. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll move on to the decision. We vote on the amendment to Article 22. Please. If there's any objection, please raise your hand immediately and I'll take that into account. We're in the middle of a vote. 47 in attendance, 41 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] This harmonisation amendment has also been adopted. Let's go to the other side of the exam. You have an amendment to Article 48. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll move on to a decision, an amendment to Article 48. Present 59, 47 for and 9 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] Roger that. We now have the following amendments by 75th, 76th, 77th and 77th and the new 77th. Anybody want a word? We must decide on each article individually. Article 75, I shall put it to the vote, the harmonisation amendment to Article 75. 57 present, 48 for and 7 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] Roger that. Article 76, we vote. 59 in attendance, 49 in and 9 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] Roger that. Article 77. Anybody want a word? We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're voting. I insist that peace in the vote is also due to the rightness of the President, who is leading the vote. 54 in attendance, 46 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] Roger that. Article 77 and Article 77. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on this amendment. 58 in attendance, 48 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] Roger that. Finally, the amendment to Article 80. Anybody want a word? We're voting. 55 in attendance, 45 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] The harmonisation amendments are accepted. That way we can make a full decision about the law. Anybody want a word? A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. I believe that the adoption of the law on hunting and savagery was a fine example in Parliament, how the strength of the arguments did not come to light or how the strength of the arguments took place, as if they were falling into the wall. I believe that such an attitude by the applicants towards the system law is totally unacceptable. Above all, it is unacceptable from this point of view because, in an area where so far there have been some conflicts, mainly in two respects, both on the one hand of the fishing operators and on the other hand of the owners of agricultural land, the wisdom of the policy would be to address these conflicts, rather than vice versa, that they are even trying to deepen them with a law that has not been fundamentally aligned between the two key partners in this process. It's not a blue policy, it's the other way around. Similarly, the law does not adequately respect property or, above all, trespass on private land. There has never been a question in our parliamentary group, whether it is a wild country or not; we have always said that there is no question about this for us at all. The question is, where can the state intervene without even being able to ask the owner of the private land? Secondly, this law does not allow equal partnership in the planning of hunting plans for landowners and is highly discriminatory in the area of compensation. Because of all the above and the whole procedure, which is probably not in our honour, I will vote with a calm heart against this law. In addition, I believe that you have found a heavy millstone in the implementation of this law, particularly in solving the issues that will arise with this law. I am therefore convinced that this point did not take time or ultimatum, but should take the time needed to establish a normal dialogue between the two key partners in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u3	Vote explanation, Comrade Pukšič. I will give my word to everyone, I only point out that the debate is over, and now it is just an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In recent years, there has been a lot of overcrowded ink and a lot of spoken words. Such a proposal by the applicants, which then actually came into the procedure, did not, in my opinion, take into account very one-sided and many factors of life in this country. I'm sorry that the proponents and the drafters were the ones they didn't have in front of them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u5	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u6	the interests of citizens and citizens of this country, but some of the narrow interests. [[...]] Of course, such legal professionals who were present in this law are known from some other stories and have not proved to be the protectors of this country and the interests of these people. So, of course, it was a lot of squandering. The fact is that amendments have not been able to introduce at least some conditions that would make this law a little more lifelike. So you didn't take into account the local community, but it's not like you're making a law out of before 1994. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But of course that's not possible. The ownership was not taken into account, therefore the ownership right of the owners was not taken into account [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u7	The clock, everything is subject to the same limit. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u8	And unfortunately for a few years, you've been deceiving hunting societies for a decade. [[...]] Some hunting societies, about 10 in Slovenia, will be able to establish and have a hunting family in this area by amending legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thanks, buddy Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u10	That's why, of course, with such limitations, it's not going to work - and I'm going to finish the president. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u11	My friend Puksic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u12	I conclude, the last sentence, unfortunately, such a law as it is, is also unconstitutional, which I believe would also prove to be in the Constitutional Court. That's why, of course, I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u13	Look, two minutes is one minute half the time, that's a big one. I don't like falling into words. Let each of us please be so collegiate with everyone else that we can hold on to this time. Comrade Yasz Zląbec, please. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u14	I will abstain from voting just because the owner's dictatorship would make an even worse choice. However, I must say that 22,000 hunters are not aware enough that in Slovenia there are 2 million people and most of them do not have a particularly positive attitude towards hunting. That's what hunters should take into account. Animals are available and hunters do not question the sanctity that applies to both humans and animals. Animals and nature, all of this, I repeat, is available without residue and this is not right. I'm going to hold out, because I'm saying that other variants are even worse than this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u15	My friend Merlo. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As co-proposer of the law, I am pleased that we are just before the final vote on the law and that, through the legislative procedure, we have managed to convince most of the colleagues and colleagues of the appropriateness of the basic solutions to this law. The law preserves those solutions from the law that have proved to be appropriate and complements them with the novelties of our legal order. These solutions have contributed significantly to such preservation and to such a state of our wildlings that we are envied by a wide range of Western European countries. The main foundations of this law are, in my opinion, state ownership of the game defined by the Environmental Protection Act and the fact that sustainable wildlife management is within the jurisdiction of the State, which can transfer this management as a hunting right to qualified legal persons. I consider these two to be a great achievement of our society, especially because most of the Member States of the European Union have not yet been able or could not do so. Also, because of the significantly poor conservation of wildlife, they have no large beasts that have been exterminated decades ago. I would also like to stress my great support for the proposed regulation of existing breeding grounds, which over the past 50 years have contributed a significant share to the conservation of all species of game, and especially the large beasts in their natural habitat. Dear colleagues, I will therefore be very happy to support the marriage. I firmly believe that with the regulation of the new law, we will be able to set an example for many of the members of the European Union so far. And so that we can continue to settle our bears where they were exterminated decades ago or centuries ago, and today they are trying to correct these mistakes. The new Wildlife and Hunting Act will also help prevent us from making these mistakes ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will vote against the adoption of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, regardless of whether we support some of the basic solutions of this Act, that we agree that the game is a state property, that the masters of large-scale fisheries are to support sustainable management. However, we will not support the law because there are certain solutions to this law, which are in sharp contrast to the views of sustainable wildlife management. We strongly oppose the continued enforcement of state-owned hunting grounds, which constitute a kind of derogation from the concept of hunting, both laid down, which prevents the exercise of hunting rights by hunters and landowners on these state-owned fishing grounds who, in accordance with the law, cannot exercise their hunting rights through the hunting family, as envisaged. We are also opposed to this law because it does not take local communities into account in determining hunting areas, in the production of long-term, short-term and annual hunting plans, does not take into account local communities, does not give sufficient role to the local community in the treatment and assessment of damage. We will oppose this law because it completely excludes owners of agricultural land and forests. The country has loaded and charged concessions to hunters who will hunt or rule in hunting. However, this concession is not prepared to pay or repay the owners of agricultural land, which is in sharp contradiction with the current constitution. Last but not least, we will oppose this hunting law because it is in sharp contradiction with the views of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to draw attention to resolution 882 of 1987, which clearly speaks and urges the governments of the Member States, inter alia, to promote dialogue between hunters, farmers, foresters, laymen and environmentalists, so that each group learns the benefits of close cooperation. The legislative proposal, the proposal of the Wildlife and Hunting Act adopted in the third reading, is in sharp contrast to this call. It is also strongly opposed to the call for governments to contribute as much as possible to a greater understanding of the role of hunting in order to preserve the environment and promote rural economic development in the general public. This law is far from these views, far from these calls, and that is why the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u19	Comrade Juban, please. Behind you, colleague Jerovšek and Drobník [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this marriage because I have been following this law for nine years, and it has come to us that we have formed a law in a version that is acceptable to me today. Since then, in a sufficiently large consensus in this national council, we have found that the game is a state property and that the smaller fisheries below 2,000 hectares would be unacceptable to our country. We have also come to the conclusion from various over-the-countries that damage must be addressed mainly on agricultural surfaces, because the ownership of 350,000 land and forest owners in Slovenia, where the own structure is extremely small, makes no sense. At a time when we are still insisting on ownership rights, colleagues are likely to think of those 150 owners who have enough land or forests, but they forget the immaterial interest of small and small farm owners and parcels who would be completely unimportant and inadequately paid through some compensation in this law. With the solutions we have adopted, not all problems will be solved, but it seems to me that this is one of the better solutions we have in the past. I'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u21	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President. Yesterday, an LDS Member expressed his request on behalf of the animals to accept an amendment that was then adopted. Although I am an animal lover, I will not vote in favour of this law, even though it was written "big cattle" and it is the interests of "big animals".
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u23	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u24	For this law is not in the interest of animals, nor in the interest of citizens, nor in the interest of the State. I will vote against it, because I will vote for my people, for those of whom Gregorčič says, "He was my people; he stood silent outside, and waited peacefully for the Lord to give him room." But now it's even worse than it was in Gregorchi's day, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u25	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u26	For the power, the hunting elite, these lords give no place to the people, but to the citizens, to the farmer this place takes. [[...]] It is literally a nationalisation of agricultural land, it takes property rights, it is a flagrant violation of constitutional rights. This law will also work against the vast majority of the 22,000 hunters, since all financial material privileges will be shared or adopted by a handful or the top of these hunting barons, these gentlemen, these elites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u27	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u28	The New Slovenia Group will vote against this law. Another opportunity wasted in this National Assembly to obtain a coherent law that follows constitutional provisions has at least minimal respect for the institution of ownership and the role of the local community, i.e. the role of those most affected. So a lot of words about local communities, about regionalism, about landscapes, but when you actually have to do the right thing, there is no step, individual laws. Therefore, ownership is not sufficiently taken into account, a waste of opportunity for owners to exercise some of their interests in the welfare of Slovenia. In order not to have so many conflicting interests, this law, this law, I repeat, will not reduce conflicts, but will increase them. However, the purpose of any law is to comply with the Constitution and to reduce conflict and to increase regulation in the country. Because of a narrow elite circle, most will suffer. We do not therefore need such a law in Slovenia and therefore strongly oppose it in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u30	Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will vote in favour of the law with the exception of the law, because the law is due to more than a decade's work, as a result of the work of all governments that have been in Slovenia since 1990, and since the first Demos through several LDS governments, then one government in between and the last government. Attempts by many Members with their laws from the positions and opposition that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u31	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u32	write the law to harmonise it and to experience parliamentary treatment as well as reception. [[...]] Unfortunately, a lot of energy has been used in the process of adopting this law to oppose this law from simple expectations that in Slovenia we can get a law that is contrary to the provisions in force in Slovenia, that is, that the property of the world is a matter, but on the other hand limited to some of the rights of other citizens and citizens who do not own it have an interest in walking around the country, walking around watching animals, hunting, walking in forests and so on. I could say it's an ideological fight you want. But it came about as it did, we eventually took such owners into account through the agri-agricultural chambers that participated in the coordination before we passed the law. It is true that we have not been able to reconcile everything, but the owners are taken into account in the law through an organised, law-set representative of their interests, through an agri-economic chamber. The local communities came into law on the proposal of Members of the ion Members, as well as professional institutions. We have decided that within six months we will have a new regime in the field of state hunting. And that's what I believe will happen. We've also established damages for the damage the savages will do. And, of course, we have determined that the state regulates and grants hunting rights as well as that it owns game. And that's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u33	My friend Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary and escort, ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to drop by for a little while. I admit to the coalition that she has put a lot of work into this project and I think she has chosen a very appropriate political moment. You already know why. But I would say this, that a law like this I somehow understand why it's so complicated. First of all, I'm going to say what people are going to do about this law, especially the landowners. However, in all the political liturgy that governs us, no one has gone on the road, even though it would be worth walking for. Of course, what the savage thinks about this thing, we don't know yet, but in a few years, we'll probably see it too. Why do I understand that the law is the same as it is, it seems to me that it is written in terms of thinking that sometimes prevailed in this land and even in this congregation? In fact, it is socialist, and I think it is contrary to what we want in this country, but democracy and more freedom of action in all areas. This is not what this law allows, and, unfortunately, I will have to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u35	Dr. Bayuk, you're the last one to explain his voice. Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote strongly against this law. Above all, because I believe what Mr. Head of the Liberal Democracy Group has said that this is the fruit of a decade's effort. I would add that this is also the fruit of extending all the experience that Slovenia has unfortunately had in the previous period of the totalitarian regime. Above all, I will vote against this because this law has not found an appropriate attitude towards natural persons and the amendment offered by the opposition has not been voted on. I am truly surprised, however, that, on behalf of today and here, on behalf of some liberalism, a large coalition has decided on corporate solutions and is turning its back on the private, which is the core and key of the organisation of society's democracy. Just because everything is left to one and the same organisations, because there is no room for a private natural person, because this is not in line with the true liberal spirit of modern society, I will vote against and repeat, these are corporate solutions of a socialist character, and I am not surprised that a great coalition is voting like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u37	Also a colleague of Bevk's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. There, on the right side of our hall, you used some demagogies to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u39	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u40	In this case, the great owners could have reaped more benefit if the law were written as you imagine on the right side of our hall. Little farmers and small owners certainly not. Undoubtedly, if I am exaggerating a little, we may also return to a time when, as you imagine this law, you are in some historic period when the Church and the Holy Lady ruled over the forests, so I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u41	Please, Comrade Partich. I would like to point out that it is not a controversy, but an explanation of the position or position of the Group of Members. Comrade Partlych, your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u42	My view is that I will uphold the law, as the leader of our group has said, which has spoken in some way on my behalf, I can say, I agree with everything. Since I have been here for a long time, I remember many attempts to regulate this area, even at a time when there were completely different governments. And in general, there was the belief that we should leave it alone, saying that we would never be able to prepare it for a marriage that could come to life. It seems to me that the achievement of this is that we have the first law in this, and we can also change it in the first possible situation, but it seems to me that at least now it is regulated in some way. In some ways, we may be speaking in the name of a past. I was also the son of poorer parents, and in some ways it is not surprising that we have this majority because it is part of Slovenia, but it still experiences the world or has such memories. And that will change, and everything else can change. I think so, too. We made a little mockery of Beuerman yesterday when he said he spoke for the animals. And in a way, I'd say metaphorically, it's possible to say yes. Perhaps another time someone will speak on behalf of the platoons who cannot speak or in the name of the tree. The animals are in a very difficult situation today, which my colleague has previously pointed out that they are, in fact, more or less always on reserves because of this space and it is expanding urbanly. We had a bear here in Galjevica, as you recall, and it seems to me that it is good that we touched it with at least some law, but it will still be an opportunity to change it for the better; better than now that we did not have it and it was an obstacle that it could not be arranged at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u43	The National Assembly will now move on to deciding on the law. Please, is everything in order? We're voting on the law. We're in the middle of a vote. 68 present, 51 for and 16 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 16.]] The law has been passed. This point is closed. We're at the Naval Code, it's 51. THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, the proposal was submitted to the assembly of the government. Does the Minister want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me to brief you on behalf of the proposed amendment to the maritime code. The maritime code only mentions inland sea waters and territorial seas, but not other maritime zones governed by international contract law. Since the Republic of Slovenia has a territorial exit to the open sea, it can also declare other maritime areas, and it also has an epicontinental belt. Such a view was particularly strongly stressed by Slovenian diplomacy since the first announcement of the Republic of Croatia that it intends to declare exclusively an economic zone or a protected ecological fishing zone. Slovenia is considered to be the successor of an agreement between the Government of the Socialist Federal Policy of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the delimitation of the continental band between the States of 1968, which it has already notified the Italian Republic and the Republic of Croatia with a note or two notes. In view of the discussions of the current and future Member States of the European Union and other Mediterranean countries under the Mediterranean Sustainable Development Initiative, it is highly likely that one of the measures will be the creation of common protection zones in cooperation between the countries concerned. In the activities undertaken so far at the international scene on possible measures to protect the Mediterranean and thus the Adriatic, the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia therefore supported the positions of the European Commission, the high political representatives of the European Union, as well as the current President-in-Office of the European Union, Italy, that any activities and zones relating to the protection of the Mediterranean and the Adriatic Sea should be implemented in a coordinated and progressive manner in an agreement and agreement between all interested countries. Such views are also reflected in the declaration adopted at the Venice Ministerial Conference on the Sustainable Development of Mediterranean Fisheries, which was held in Venice on 25 and 26 November this year. The main reason for the proposals for legislative amendments is found in the 10th point of the declaration, by which the Mediterranean countries expressed a common opinion that the creation of fishing protection zones can contribute to the conservation of resources and control in the fisheries field and to the joint fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. The Mediterranean countries have also committed themselves to taking a broader approach to exploring the possibilities and means of developing fisheries protection zones, using a coherent and appropriate regional approach based on dialogue and cooperation among all interested countries in the design of these zones. Dear Members! The amendments to the maritime code are intended to create an internal legal basis for the declaration of the maritime belts to which the Republic of Slovenia is entitled under international law. At the same time, the amendments to the maritime code would confirm that, so to speak, Slovenia's official positions would allow our country to participate with credibility in the drafting of proposals for multilateral measures, i.e. multilateral measures and their subsequent effective implementation. Such a declaration could become formally necessary within the framework of the arrangements between Mediterranean and Adriatic countries on common measures for sustainable development, in particular when declaring the conservation zones and regulating the regime in force therein. I would like to point out that the adoption of the proposed amendments does not yet constitute a declaration of the maritime belts. The decision to declare individual or more maritime belts may, if it so decides, be taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, namely, you, honourable Members and Members. The preparation of all draft amendments took into account both the provisions of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the regulation of this issue in foreign law. For example, the ecological protection area, the exclusive fishing zone and the protection fishing zone have not yet been regulated in multilateral treaties, but, above all, the exclusive fishing zones are relatively common in the practice of countries and have already become part of customary international law. The difference between exclusive fishing zones and exclusive economic zones is that the sovereign rights of the coastal State in the case of the fishing zone relate only to living natural resources. In recent practice, so-called conservation fisheries zones and environmental or environmental protection zones are emerging. These zones are subject to the same regime as exclusive fisheries zones, but the ecological aspect of the management and conservation of living natural resources is more emphasized in the conservation zones of the marine environment. For a small technical explanation. So, I'm talking about the difference between fishing zones and conservation fishing zones, in English it's called the first "fishing zones" and the second "fishery's zones", in short, for laymen, as we are mostly in this choir, with me, of course this difference is not important, but for experts it is important. A few words further to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law supplementing the maritime code. In fact, once we have started the debate on these changes, we have received the opinion of this service and allow me to add an explanation from the government's side in a few sentences to this opinion. With regard to the observation that the Convention, subject to Article 8 of the Constitution, already contains a formal and substantive basis for the declaration of the maritime belts to which the Republic of Slovenia has the right under international law, as well as for the exercise of sovereign rights in these belts, I would like to stress the following. First time. The question of the direct applicability of an international treaty is related to the nature and content of specific contractual provisions, while also covering the possibility of establishing rights and obligations for internal legal entities. This means that the content and method of formulation of individual articles of a particular international treaty must be taken into account, in this case, of a convention which must be clear, precise and directly applicable. Another time. The practice of other countries, in particular large maritime countries, such as France, is such that these countries, although they have rights under the Convention, although they have a general right under the United Nations Convention already mentioned, do not have domestic legal acts, or, if you wish, define individual institutes in more detail. International law is therefore a framework and the country is, by its internal rules, the means of implementing the provisions of international law. Thirdly, despite the fact that the Convention contains provisions on inland maritime waters and territorial seas, the maritime code in force defines in more detail the aforementioned maritime zones of the Republic of Slovenia. Another comment was the observation that we have not yet explained or presented the concept of "water pillar". On this point, I would like to say that the text of the bill is abstract and all the instruments or attributes that are necessary are taken into account. I will count: sovereign rights, jurisdiction, control [[which is particularly important in the outer band]] , sea surface [[For out-of-port controls are carried out on the surface of the sea]] , seabed and subterranean and seawater pillar, which plastically describes the three-dimensional space of the sea. In addition, it is perfectly clear what a water pillar is. The water pillar is an area of the sea from the seabed to the sea surface. However, it is also important that certain rights from the exclusive economic zone relate only to the water column, as regards marine assets which are not in contact with the seabed. Finally, I should like to reiterate that the proposed amendments are only the legal basis for subsequent possible decisions on the proclamation of the maritime belts to be adopted by the national assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you support the proposal for these amendments, and I thank you in advance for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your explanations. Does Mr Marsich, as rapporteur, want a word? Rapporteur of the Foreign Policy Committee, Comrade Marshich, please. Then we will have a presentation of the views of the groups of Members if they so wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law supplementing the maritime code was addressed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee at its 20th emergency meeting on 16.12.2003. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Transport and the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly took part in this meeting. In particular, we have considered the received written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which considered that the Republic of Slovenia, as a coastal state, gives the exercise of sovereign law, jurisdiction and control beyond the limits of national sovereignty at sea, in accordance with international law, already the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. It therefore states that, in accordance with our Constitution, constitutional provisions and those Conventions, there should also be a fundamental and material basis for declaring the coastal zones to which the Republic of Slovenia has the right under international law and, of course, the exercise of sovereign rights in these belts. In view of this, it would be legal to reflect on the specificisation of that constitutional provision of the international convention, in particular on the issues for which legal regulation is required. The representative of the proposed law, Minister Rupel, of course also participated in the debate. I will not repeat this, given that it has been very comprehensive now to present the proposal again, and I would rather focus on the discussion on the individual articles of the law that the members of the committee have carried out. The opinion is proposed, although a small complement of the maritime code at the declarative level is a very important basis for the continued activities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia in the area under consideration, both within the European Union and in relations with neighbouring countries, so they fully supported the text of the articles to supplement the Code, since the views are that the internal legal basis for the declaration of coastal zones will be in line with international law. Above all, it was also said that the government had done the right thing and acted wisely that the proposed supplement had submitted a hearing following the interviews held at the Venice conference. The opinion of individual members was also that the Government was beginning to prepare appropriate documentation for the declaration of the fishing zone, in accordance with European Union rules and, of course, in cooperation with neighbouring countries. There was also a talk, of course, about individual provisions that should still be regulated, according to some in the Water Act. However, the view is also expressed that the maritime code should be subject to broader, broader corrections and to participation in the preparation of these preparations should also be invited by other experts, institutions in the field of maritime law. Following a discussion in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted, in a joint vote on all the articles of the draft law, and as it did not adopt any amendments, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law on amendments to the maritime code be addressed in the text as it was sent to the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Policy, colleague Marsich was this. We will now hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group is cancelling the presentation. Is this true of the Young People’s Party? You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u48	When we accepted hundreds of articles of the long maritime code a while ago, no one thought we let anything go. Soon, however, we learned the shortcomings of this code or those shortcomings were directly shown to us by neighbouring Croats when they knew that a receptive action by Slovenia was not possible, unilaterally declared an ecological protection zone in the Adriatic Sea. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we are convinced that today's changes to the maritime code are not intended to retaliate measures to neighbouring Croatia. The possibility of declaring protection zones must also be allowed by our legislation. We support the objectives and objectives of the debate of the current and future Member States of the European Union and of the other Mediterranean countries in the framework of the initiative on sustainable development of Mediterranean fisheries in the Party of Young Slovenia. We expect the latter to provide quality measures for the creation of conservation fishing zones in cooperation between all the countries sharing the sea. Since the maritime code does not allow the mechanism to declare such zones, in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia we support the proposed amendments that will allow Slovenia to adopt proposals and measures for the protection of the Slovenian sea in cooperation with the other countries. Our sea is only part of the closed Adriatic Sea, where it is quickly known, say, overfishing, including the flowering of the sea spread rapidly across national borders. In short, maritime life does not know borders, not borders, not borders of such or different zones. Therefore, the unilateral declaration of any zone in the closed Adriatic Sea is completely meaningless and without effect unless, of course, they are intended to do otherwise. Any declaration of a fishing, ecological or any zone may only be made on the basis of an agreement and agreement of all interested parties, and if such an agreement is reached, then our country must not be embarrassed when the domestic legislation does not allow the zone to be declared at all. Therefore, the change in the maritime code in this direction is not only desirable but essential. Members of the Youth Slovenia Party will support the proposed changes in order to ensure that an agreement between the Adriatic Sea-sharing countries is possible and that we will also announce a zone with the consent of all these countries. They announced with the aim of protecting the marine life, not to tease the neighbor. We therefore hope that the amendments to the maritime code will not only be a dead letter on paper but will also produce practical results in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Janša will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u50	Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we are pleased that there has been some consensus that this amendment to the maritime code is necessary. When we first proposed such a change in the Slovenian Democratic Party, there was quite a dilemma. Only when this proposal was written and filed did it prove that part of Slovenian politics and also part of the profession in Slovenia insisted that Slovenia was a territorially disadvantaged country, which did not have the right to declare sovereign belts at sea. Literally, such a formulation is also found in the explanation of the current maritime code. And in this code, this right is not defined. Moreover, given that it has already been said twice that Slovenia could automatically have this right under the current Constitution and the international Convention on the Law of the Sea, it is also necessary to say that the National Assembly in the mid-1990s, when it adopted or ratified this Convention on the Law of the Sea, has also adopted, if we are reading today a completely unnecessary, illogical, interpretative statement in which it practically declares Slovenia a territorially disadvantaged country or points to that part of an international convention that speaks of the rights of territorially disadvantaged countries. Interestingly, these views were adopted somehow in the shadows, without the public being aware of it. On the other hand, it has also been spoken by the same government or by representatives of the same government, which has proposed solutions such as the fact that Slovenia is not a territorially disadvantaged country, how we have a clear right of direct contact with international waters and how all rights for Slovenia as a maritime state are derived from this. There had to be a shock when Croatia declared exclusively the fishing zone, that these things had been put together in Slovenia at the table and that we finally knew where we were. The result or part of this result is also this government proposal that we have before us. We are not entirely satisfied with him because he is very general. We agree that Slovenia gives what is crucial the right to declare sovereign belts at sea, which has not been in the maritime code so far and to which we have expressly waived our explanations. Nevertheless, the definition is general and does not summarize or specify certain solutions under the international convention, as is usually practical for all other maritime countries. When we invested our changes in the procedure, we also examined the legislation of many other countries, including neighbouring Croatia. Virtually all maritime countries have this right to be more broadly defined. It is true that they repeat mainly what is stated in the international convention, but they still write it in their own national legislation. The government has not done so in this case, we fear that for more prestigious reasons, because we have already written this in our proposal. But anyway, we would not be going to this prestigious game, we will support this government proposal, because it fixes the maritime code at the key point, so Slovenia is still entitled to declare sovereign belts. On this basis, it is then possible to refer directly to the International Convention. This gives Slovenia some legal status or some legal regulation of this issue, by which we become or will become equal partners in negotiations with the neighbouring country. Given that there have also been several suggestions on the Committee that Slovenia should also make practical proposals for the exercise of this sovereign right, we express the hope here that this will not be necessary to resolve things in such a way that there will be no more exclusive or unilateral moves on this part of the Mediterranean Sea and that our membership in the European Union will also be an additional safeguard in the absence of any unilateral measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Comrade Janez Podobnik will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the third amendment of the maritime code proposed by the Government. We estimate that the time after the Venice Conference is the right time for this change. Slovenia is a maritime state. That's what we're even more aware of when we have a maritime code ahead of us. The content of the amendments alone has been very well justified by Mr Minister again today, both internally and internationally, on the basis of this change. There are three reasons in our opinion. The first is that this change will also regulate the epicontinental belt of the Republic of Slovenia. Second, a deficiency in the current maritime code that does not prevent the declaration of so-called fishing zones. This will now be enabled. And there is also a reason that we think is very important. In the material itself, in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the government has written down some sentences that will be of great importance even further. The Republic of Slovenia, in view of the fact that it has a territorial exit to the high seas, could also declare other maritime areas and, with amendments and additions to the maritime code, create a legal basis for this in domestic law. And once again the government says, the territorial exit to the open sea Slovenia has already had in the former SFRJ and all the time since its collapse and has it today. So here in the National Assembly at this site today we will make it clear that Slovenia had and has an exit to the open sea. This is a very important political finding, which the National Assembly will also confirm today by its decision. I would like to remind you that our colleagues in the Slovenian People's Party have tabled a special resolution on the border with the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia at sea years ago, even there we have written such a statement, which unfortunately did not go forward with the procedure, and today will be written in this bill in explanation and this is a very important political conclusion. We'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In March 2001, the Council adopted a maritime code. It took two years and more to realize that this maritime code is actually incomplete and we are correcting it today. It's about time we fixed it today. However, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that this correction is only the beginning of a real correction. For we must be aware that the territorial exit to the open sea is not only a narrow belt from half of the Bay of Piranhas. We must be aware that already in 1993 the National Assembly adopted a declaration on the Gulf of Piran which speaks of the indivisibility of the Gulf of Piran, which, of course, Mr Drnovšek did not take into account and worked in his own way in some private and semi-private variants of Račan-Drnovšek. It should be noted that the first American military ship to arrive after the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia landed in Novigrad, because the Americans thought it was the first port in Slovenia. And that was true. We must be aware that Istria has never been Croatian and that Istria has won Yugoslavia, like the rest of the Adriatic Sea, because of its victory over Nazism. We must be aware that Croatia was a co-worker and cooperated with Nazism from the first day of its establishment until the end of World War II. And just getting involved in Yugoslavia, she temporarily absolved her guilt and pushed her into a later period. And this time is now. Europe will hold a peace conference on the former Yugoslavia. At that time, I hope that the people who have so soberly introduced these new two articles into this maritime code will make equally sound arguments for those debates and for those conference days which will then be very important for Slovenia. Slovenia can then get back what was taken from it and what it paid for with almost 170,000 Slovenians who remained on the Italian side. There's gonna be a lot of work to be done, but the beginning is promising. This start should only be an extension of what is yet to come for us - to make Slovenia live once within the limits it has. That Trsat will again be the Slovenian path of God and that the border will be at the river. We'll support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u55	Mr Ašić will present the position of the Club of Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Also in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the maritime code. Otherwise, we regret that no one, not the government or anyone in this Chamber, came to us in 2001 when we adopted the maritime code; not in 2002 when we adopted the novelty of the maritime code, because it was only a problem at the forefront, whether we would allow foreign ships to land on the nuclear power of Luka Koper or in the Slovenian sea. Even then, no one, not us, nor any other parliamentary group, has pointed to this problem. There was a talk, and in fact this novelty also means some prestigious competition between us. However, I must say to the government that we spoke for the first time this October about the need to amend maritime law on the Foreign Policy Committee, where the government presented the purpose of the change and also said it would be wise to wait for the conclusion of the installation of the Venice Conference. This is what the government has done, and today we have this proposal ahead of us. This was not the case with some others who, while talking about it at a closed meeting of the committee, rushed with the announcement and also with the announcement of changes. But well, it's a matter of every parliamentary group individually. With this change in the maritime code, we will, of course, also in Slovenia, confirm the Convention on the International Maritime Frontier by declaration and by law, but in particular, we will express our historic right to exercise and co-operate with the Adriatic Sea. This is essential, and this is most important. This historical right is certainly close to 50 years ago when it was joined to Yugoslavia by zone b and when Yugoslavia became the owner or co-owner and manager of the Adriatic Sea, and Slovenia is also in the process of doing so. This is the historical fact that we must and will guarantee our sovereign rights on the Adriatic Sea, including the identification of such and different zones. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we will break the law, but we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare immediately and simultaneously all the documentation necessary for the implementation or implementation of this law, in agreement with all the countries that lie alongside the Adriatic Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the positions of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, presented by colleague Aurelio Juri, we will proceed to the decision-making process, so I invite my colleague to come to the Chamber. Please, Comrade Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you, President. I will quote, colleagues and colleagues, the phrase or last indent of the third and final chapter of the 1991 Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia, which shows how we will take care of the maritime legal regime in accordance with international rules, and reads: "In cooperation with neighbouring coastal countries, Slovenia will ensure a comprehensive agreement on the maritime waterways and regimes of navigation and fishing areas in the Adriatic." This time a novelty of the maritime code is emerging in this spirit, which is also the spirit and recommendation of the European Union, following the declaration of the recent Venice Ministerial Conference on the Sustainable Development of Fisheries in the Mediterranean, which does not prejudge anything, which is why I support it in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats. This is entirely respectful of the warnings of the legal and legislative service that, in particular, in the case of Article 2 it is a provision and a text which is only of a declaratory nature, because the rights of the coastal State are already given by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and that laws and other rules must be applied in accordance with the generally applicable principles of international law and international treaties which bind the Republic of Slovenia and which, ratified and published, of course, must apply directly. This opinion is followed by some internationally recognised experts from maritime law and is difficult to challenge. But in this House, we are going to this house because we are also invited to do so, including politics. And we all know very well how and how this story has its political dimension and its political significance. In particular, if we are aware of the possibility and perhaps even the likelihood that there will be no more productive movement already agreed by the new Croatian Government, the dialogue with the southern neighbour on the maritime border and the proclamation of such or different maritime belts or the exercise of sovereign jurisdiction and control rights beyond the borders of national sovereignty, as provided for by international law, will be affected by another third, perhaps a mediator or an arbitrator. The proposed three articles of the bill may be a more important explanation, justifying the amendment or addition of the Code and abolishing, as originally presented by the Minister, the infertility of the original explanation, which has shown us that we are a territorially or geographically disadvantaged country or a country without access to international waters, and which we have overlooked, hand in heart, all because we were also more concerned with the integrity of the Gulf of Piran, and not so much with the direct exit into international waters. Novela has her message. The Novela has its weight, just as it has its weight of our insistence on the so-called Drnovšek-Račan agreement on the border that the direct exit to the international Adriatic recognises, which can confidently also lead to arbitration if this is the only non-conflict way out of a potentially grave conflict and incident situation. Otherwise, we had already in the procedure, and after Croatia has hurried ahead with the unilateral extension of its jurisdiction on the Adriatic, we have withdrawn, even more comprehensive, a comprehensive proposal for amendments and a complement to the maritime code, which should deal more appropriately with a number of issues, particularly in the field of maritime administrative law, and facilitate the dispersion of the stories of abandoned ships and crews in our sea and in our ports. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we expect that these corrections and improvements will be made as soon as possible, or that the government will return with withdrawal, and we hope that a more elaborate and expertly tested novel will not overlook the changes that are as necessary as we have been warned by the professional circles, including the news that have arisen and come under the auspices of the international maritime organisation and the international maritime freedom. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I will not list all the conventions we have to follow. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u60	We expect a substantial amendment to take place as soon as possible after the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much, colleague Aurelio Yuri. In the context of the urgent procedure, we have carried out a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and can proceed with the decision-making process. No amendments have been tabled and there is no debate on them either. In the context of the third reading, we will decide on a proposal for a law. Is everything okay for the vote? We are voting on amendments to the maritime code as a whole. 61 present, 61 for, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law is unanimously adopted and concluded on the agenda. We're moving to 21. Period of the day - debate on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Magi. Anton's robbery on a business question from a fellow deer in connection with the arms trade. First of all, I would like to give the National Assembly some explanations for my actions in preparation for this point. You have received correspondence between colleague Jelinčič and me on some issues. Mr Jelinčič suggested, among other things, that the time for discussion should be extended. I did not accept this proposal. If so, it would mean that any parliamentary group, after the time has been set, could at any time propose such an extension within the meeting and should meet the College and decide on it. I believe that this would be a precedent that would jeopardize predictability and order of work. Another more important proposal to be drawn up is the warning given by colleague Jelinčič, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that [[Quote]] "will have to be closed to the public at the point under consideration in a particular part, as some classified information will also be presented." I myself, together with the advisers, have looked at the provisions of Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure. First and foremost, keep an eye on that part of the third paragraph, which speaks of the decision to do so being taken by the State assembly without public presence. And if colleague Jelinčič confirms that he wishes to have some emphasis or information which is of a confidential nature on his performance, it is his duty to warn him, then it will be necessary to conclude a closed session on this, or to close a public meeting. So keep this warning in front of your eyes. And now I'm inviting a colleague of mine who wanted to make a procedural suggestion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would warn you that you missed the 32nd point before that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u63	I missed her, but this point was announced for 11:00. Here, however, I must take into account both the time provision and the responsibility of the Prime Minister, who also has some responsibilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u64	Then I am making a procedural proposal, given that this point will last for quite some time and that the rest of us will not take up that much time, and given the fairly current vote today, I propose that we first complete all the other agenda items and then move on to the 21st item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u65	Here, please, because of the predictability I spoke of earlier, I must insist that the session run as it runs. At 11.00 a.m., the Prime Minister is also here waiting for cooperation. I think it is necessary to respect the agreement and also its time, the time of the minister in the government. I propose that we stay at the time that is announced for this, so that we do not prolong it, so that we decide now on the issue that awaits us. I'll close the session, then. My friend Jelinčič, before I do this, I ask, do you insist on this proposal to close the meeting? Don't you insist? So that's what you're withdrawing. Thus, I do not have any notice that anyone would be giving information or in a discussion would be conveying any matter of a confidential nature. Everyone's got to take care of it. This proposal has now become irrelevant and we can start with a meeting. You know that the National Assembly has decided at its previous meeting to hold a discussion on the response that the Prime Minister has put to the question of the question of the Member of the Council, colleague Jelinčič, I will now give my word to my colleague Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to the Prime Minister, ministers! The demand to clarify the issue of arms trafficking, illicit trafficking, private arms trafficking has been dragging for some time. The two mandates were when the Commission was established, which did not find anything either in the first or in the second term. There have always been problems with data, with documents, with evidence provided by certain services, mainly intelligence services, both civil and military, as well as by a part of the criminal police, they did not want to hand over to Members. During the second term, Mr Drnovšek was the biggest brake. He was the one who wrote a letter to Mr Mohet on 30.12.1999 saying: Dear Mr Mohe, by letter of 30.11.1999, you requested a waiver of the duty of security for the former Defence Minister Jelko Kacin, Minister of Finance Mitja Gaspari, and before that, for former Defence Minister Janez Janša. The alleged irregularities in the sale of weapons in the self-serving war were already attempted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the previous term. However, our activities have not confirmed such assumptions. I estimate that the constant resurgence of the so-called arms affair is not in the interest of the State and that it is also putting a bad light on the self-sustaining war. I therefore hope that the parliamentary commission of inquiry will conclude its work as soon as possible and close this chapter. It is true that the arms affair casts a strange light on the entire state of Slovenia. And it is because it casts a strange light, and because it casts a stain on our history, it is necessary to clear this matter once. We will not wear piggybacks and will not be worn by citizens if some privates for their pockets are making profits with death. Slovenia has not done so and a lot of money in certain gentlemen has disappeared into private pockets. When I demanded that the issue be extended here to the Prime Minister, of course, I came across strong opposition mainly from the President of the National Assembly of Mr Borut Pahor and, of course, from his forthcoming services. Also by Ms Tina Bitenc Pengov, Head of Legal Service in the National Assembly. In every way, they tried to speak out in one way that was as credible as they could not give documents, secret documents that would prove some ten million financial transactions in their own pockets. It is simply not for Members to see this, despite the fact that the law on classified information in its Article 3 states: "As regards the performance of their functions, they can access classified information without permission to access classified data, first of all is the President of the Republic, second Prime Minister and third Member." Of course, they argued that this could not be done, but they forgot that towards the end of the same article it reads: "The persons referred to in the preceding paragraph - whom I referred to - shall be authorised to take office or to perform their work and to sign a declaration that they are aware of this law and other rules governing the protection of classified information and that they undertake to act in accordance with these rules." With the beginning of the Member's office, I have the right to obtain these documents. I was ready to sign the statements, but no. Mr President of the National Assembly did not allow very fluent excuses for this and sought some variants in Article 128 of the Criminal Procedure Act. I don't know why. I can think of them as being asked or commanded by someone, a political structure, a government structure, or perhaps an intelligence structure. Surely this is not the work of the National Assembly. This also makes no sense for us to close this session. Only if Mr President of the National Assembly refuses to provide information. And the data is pretty much something. In the National Assembly, we have 19 files with documents on illegal arms trafficking. 19 files. I hope they haven't disappeared by now. When the Intelligence Control Commission requested certain documents for its work, which was in itself secret and closed and separate from the public, we obtained from the National Assembly, from Mrs Jožica Velišček, or from Mr Borut Pahor, documents in which Mrs Tina Bitenc Pengov crossed out all names, all surnames, so that there was a succinct that did not know what was involved. It is about supporting the arms trade by the authorities and the leadership of the National Assembly. Something like that doesn't happen anywhere. For such matters, the president of the assembly should have resigned or should have resigned. Things are not that simple, and they will certainly ask for health at the time of entry into the European Union. I don't know what you're gonna say. However, I can say that some foreign media houses, and not small ones, are already preparing to make certain shows about these things. I don't know how you're going to be shown in these shows. The Slovenian national party will certainly not be bad. I think they will also show the vote and show those gentlemen, from those political parties that were already against the enlargement of this point at the outset. And to tell you what documents, say, were the ones I requested from Mr. Pahor. On 15 December, I sent a letter to Mrs Jožica Velišček, Secretary-General of the National Assembly: I would like to have a discussion on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Anton Ropa, on the question of the Yelinčič Victory in relation to arms trafficking, please deliver the following documents that I need. The reply of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia of 7.11.2003 to the questions raised by the authorised group of the Commission on its inspection visit 25.9.2003. Why did I ask you to do that? Because it says in this document that the total amount of money that's passed somehow is for about 10,000 German marks. Next, I requested document number 881-600 of 19.9.1994 concerning Bojan Babič; collection of data official note. There's four sides to that. Why did I ask you to do that? Because in this document, Mr Babič said that he saw cash moving from Zupančič's sixth administration and it was for five weapons cases, Cimerman, who mentioned the amount of 30 million German marks. Next, I requested a document with the same number of 30.9.1994, concerning Anton Pinekyher and later the same document from a later date where [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u67	May I interrupt you for a moment, Comrade Jelinčič?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u68	Yes, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u69	You said you wouldn't give any information that would be related to the material of a confidential nature, because otherwise you would have to close the meeting. That's all I'm warning you about. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u70	Mr President, these are not confidential data. That's the information from my letter. This information was published in Youth if you did not read or if you were not allowed to read or if you were told what you should read and what you should say. Unfortunately, in the National Assembly, we are also people who want to clean up the messes. If you want to hide everything under the rug, just as Mr Drnovšk did all the time, we are against it in certain parliamentary groups. And there are many, in fact, in each of the Members' groups, to clean things up. I think it is also our civic duty to show people what some gentlemen have been like and what some gentlemen are like, who still have nice positions and well-paid public places. Even those who hid the data, including those who didn't give the right data and, I'm sure, who also deceived the Minister of Defence, that he went to sign that document. I wouldn't sign it. First, I would see the reality of those statements in the document, then I would see who the person who wrote it was and prepared it, where that man was in 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, and so on and so on and would ask around. I wouldn't take his word for it. I also requested a document dated 6.9. in the Bojan Vice case, which said: "October or November 1991, when I was on duty on the sixth board, I brought, at the request of Mr Painkiher, a bag in which Mr Painkiher placed more money, a stamp. He said it was about 1 million, 300,000 German marks. He took this bag to the minister's office later. I requested the documentation provided under oath by Mr Brane Praznik. I didn't get anything. Report to France Zimmerman, I didn't get it. Official record of the talks Tljakovič, Our Lady, Marinko, I didn't get it. MORSA letter dated 24 June 1999 and 28.6.1999, concerning equipment and weapons in the warehouse of the Bedroom, I did not receive it. Also, the letter from Banka Slovenije that the MORS did not open a foreign exchange account in 1991 or later under Article 26 of the Foreign Exchange Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia 1/91-1, code 23.4.2/KS, of 28.7.1994, did not receive it either. Very interesting. And yet this document is not even listed with any official secrecy. It's a public document. Today, anyone has the right to claim it at the Bank of Slovenia and will receive it. If we just look at the list of files in folder 4. How many official notes have been written about the various money transfers here and there, the money, the collection of money, the collection of money. Just a few names that spoke about this: Mavr Darko, Miha Brejc, Avčin Milan, Kosi Franc, Čepin Jernej, Call Emil, Vnuk Dejan, Lavrenčič Srečko, Toporiš Drago, Portir Janez, Detela Felix, Šibanc Janez, Kosir Janez, Jazbec Martin, Brelih Roman, Pavlica Željko, Gožek Silvo, Šešerko Franc, Fafflek Ludvik, Charni Ludvik, Vašelj Bojan, Pošič Nuri, Cigoj Branko, Tomažič Ljubo, Burja Janez. It's just something from a comprehensive list. And nothing happens to us, and nothing happens. With such a collection of documentation collected by Mr Rudi Mogue, and also with regard to the questions raised by the Member, our colleague, Mr Jagodnik on arms trafficking. In all of this, everything goes under the rug. Nothing happens. I am confident and I hope that the next term, not this one, is now no longer time, but that in the next term we will re-establish a commission to clarify this case. He may be sitting next to a European secretary or Commissioner. There may also be a European inspector sitting next to this. Or something like that. There may be Interpol representatives as well. After all, there are rumors to man, including that the rocket sold by our gentlemen merchants with death. [[?]] , shot down a certain American plane. I think he asked some of the Americans, after all, gentlemen, what kind of rockets did you sell? And to ask: Were not certain rockets perhaps brought from Slovakia and resold south for large money, for large differences in money? And they will ask: What about the 300 Bosnians you taught in the Light Stream? What about that weapon you sold to them who carried it with them? Then various arms transactions when the vans drove across the border here and there. And internal affairs, or the UN, opened borders to make transport easier to implement. And the documents on which it says that there were, say, shiploads, such as the wine ship that brought in 12.12.1991, 54 fitness containers and five other used cargo vehicles, were present our gentlemen from VIS and the representatives of the Ministry of Interior, that is, the Ministry of Interior, that is, the Ministry of Interior, and the Ministry of Defence of Croatia, and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. This is called the Ministry of Defence of the Neighbouring State. At the time of the landing of the Pythma, 21.1992, she brought in 37 gyms and 1340 fitness containers. Of course declared as medical equipment. Again, our VIS and representatives of the Croatian Ministry of Defence were present. The Commission for the control of the operation of intelligence services often encounters these matters and, in all the things that our intelligence services are doing today, we find that it is essentially more or less a constant process of editing certain data, sending false data, misleading, lying and all. We don't get the data, we dig it up somewhere else. However, when we get some of the documents required for our work, the State Assembly, by order, at the suggestion of Ms Tina Bitenc Pengov and after the command and mandate of the President of the National Assembly, deletes the names, surnames, czech, protection of personal data. We can also expect that in court for the protection of personal data, all names and surnames will be removed from the files and will be tried by some imaginary persons. Maybe someone would like that. Looks like it. When I requested the adjournment of the session, I thought that, dear colleagues and fellow Members, I would be able to read the documentation so that you could see for yourself what kind of crap it was about. I think they'd be horrified if they saw that. They'd be horrified and they'd demand that things be settled. And that's why some people hide it. Because it is significantly harder to agree and to go to that closed room where Mr Pahor would like to put a policeman along to look under his fingertips, despite the fact that a policeman has no right to look at confidential documents, but a Member does, but to a policeman this is not a problem, he can be there and we will not give the Member this in his hands. I don't know why. I don't know why, because such mistrust towards all of us is terrible, terrible. One wonders what's in the back and why. The illicit arms trade also involves a huge number of Russian masks. The Magette ship brought 584 Russian masks. And these masks weren't paid for. The money must have gone somewhere unknown. I think it would make sense if we had a closed session to ask, for example, Mr Bogataj, who knows a lot about these matters so that he can answer questions here. However, Mr Pahor does not allow, he is not for a closed session, he is not for an extended session, he is for, let's go by as soon as possible, and then home, but we would rather not have this at all. With regard to Mr Pahor's decision, when quoting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would point out that there is a law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And the restriction that Mr President of the National Assembly has mentioned is, in fact, illegal. There must be no restriction on the work of the Member State. And if we were in a democratic state, it wouldn't be. And if we were in a democratic state, those gentlemen who were dealing with it would have sat long ago. And the country would pick up that money. There were also accounts of different women's names abroad. There are still, only names have been changed. No one wanted to examine these accounts and find out who he was and what he was and where he was. No, more. Special forces were sending out to try to kidnap Greeks in Celovac, and so were the "champas" that they couldn't do it either. They couldn't do it the way they had to. But they used to share money, etc. When Mr Chengič told some gentlemen that the victims would fall because they had cheated Bosnia. Why is it that no one asks himself at the Ministry, which should explore these matters in more detail, but with regard to some of the strange traffic accidents that ended with the fatalities? Interestingly, the fatalities were involved in some of these transactions. Why is it not asked that one of these people, who was key to these things, is peacefully trading with Bosnia, while Mr. Chengić threw something similar in his face? There's nothing to be done. And it's sad that nothing is done. One wonders what kind of country we live in and what will happen next. They break in to the MPs, nothing happens. It attacks the integrity of Members, nothing happens. The police don't find anyone. Then, there are some discoveries of a capital weapon, which then turns out to be just some pathetic arms trade, for which someone will be punished by paying a tax or a fine. Then why do we have the police, why do we have intelligence? To spend government money, to lie to us, and to hide information. On several occasions, we also had a head of intelligence on the committee, who lied directly. After we caught him on a lie, he lied about not being true. I do not know how the current Minister of Government, Mr Rop, looks at Slovenian intelligence services, especially the SOVO, which is under his direct intervention. I don't know how much he trusts her. I wouldn't exactly. There are some people there who are trustworthy, for sure, but the whole thing points to a very poor level of work. This may be somewhat like the intelligence service of that state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs from 1919, and that month and a half, but even then they knew better. And there was something else: pride, honor, and honesty. I miss that today. I miss you so much. And I don't know when we're gonna get these things cleared up. Who knew thieving was like that everywhere. And I'm not surprised at these people's statements, because if it's seen that the biggest pigs don't come anywhere and that everything is pretty crowded and pushed aside, I wonder what's really all about stealing? And also on us, Members, of course, the pig is falling. I think a lot of Members know a lot, but they don't want to say, they can't say or they can't say. I'm not getting into this right now. But I'm sure there's a lot of knowledge. Even the documents, including the tapes, including the videos and the tapes, it's all there is. And yet nothing happens. And yet he's hiding everything. And I'm not sure they were involved in anything, but they're probably scaring them. I do not think such a way of democracy in Slovenia will lead far. I therefore appeal to the future National Assembly to set up a commission to investigate the matter and reach its bottom. And if Mr Rop is to be a mandate-holder again, I am sure he will not write such letters as Mr Drnovšek, who is talking to Mr Rudi Mohet among the lines to stop the matter once again, which is very unpleasant, unpleasant and would not be good if we revealed what it was all about. There are strange thoughts around a person. And if he knows any information, he doesn't just think. Then one begins to wonder. Then he wonders again how they shot Kramberger when they didn't find the real killer - despite the clues, evidence and all that he might have been, he wasn't that drunk killer Kramberger. Nothing happens. Even in the explosion under my car. At the time, Mr. Bizjak was Minister of State. Nothing happened. They've been covering up the data. They've been lying. They've been setting it up. And what? And nothing! Strange are the ways of this Slovenian democracy, and sometimes it can be seen that in fact some people simply do what is good for them, others do not care. But I think it would actually be a time to stop doing that. I expect Mr Rob to provide at least one basic guidance in his response, and that is that he wants the pig to be cleaned up and that he will not obstruct the investigation when it comes to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u71	Before I give my word to the Prime Minister, I have two things to explain. The first concerns the letter, and today also a performance by Comrade Jelinčič concerning accessibility and his claim that the services, due to such or different views, had an official opinion, which, of course, I also signed as President in this regard. No one's ever assigned a law enforcement office in my office what its position would be. But I've always relied on him. I don't think anyone else did that either. Another time. This was also in this case, the views they gave me, I signed them and sent them to you. I'd like to make two special points here. That I have permitted you, on the basis of the provisions of Article 31(1) and Article 3 of the Secret Data Act, Article 128 of the Criminal Procedure Act and Article 6a of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, to look into the requested documents, as well as others, as regards your letter 28.12. With regard to your request on 15.12., I have warned you, Comrade Jelinčič, that an individual member of the National Assembly may act in several functions, acting as a Member, as a member of the working body, as President or Vice-President of the working body, as Head or as a member of the delegation of the national assembly, as Head or Deputy Head of the parliamentary group, and as President or Vice-President of the national assembly. In view of this, it is also necessary to understand the rules governing classified information and regulations. And I, as I was prepared in the legal service, then ordered what you have or do not have access to data. I will now give my word to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u72	Dear Members! The fact is that the topic of arms trafficking has been reopening ever since independence. While there are divergent opinions and assumptions on this, no one has yet demonstrated in the government procedure the presumption of illegality in arms trafficking. Let me give you a few examples. The so-called Maribor arms affairs have been prosecuted against four suspected arms trafficking. In 1995, the District Attorney's Office withdrew the indictment against the four. In addition, the Commission of Inquiry of the National Parliamentary Inquiry into the involvement and responsibilities of the holders of public functions in relation to the finding of weapons at the Maribor airport, led by Member Zoran Madon from October 1993 to October 1996, found that, in the event of the discovery of weapons at the Maribor airport, there was no abuse of the powers of the holders of public functions. In the so-called Berlin affair, the Office of the Ministry of the Interior Crime Service filed criminal charges against six suspects in April 1995. All six were suspected of criminal offences involving illicit production and trafficking of weapons or explosives. In July 1996, the State Prosecutor withdrew criminal charges against five for lack of evidence. An investigation into the sixth suspect was initiated at the District Court in Ljubljana in March 1998, but in 1999 the court delivered an exoneration judgment. The government has done a lot in the past to investigate arms trafficking and to initiate and implement appropriate procedures on the basis of findings. The competent ministries have been constantly investigating, within their competences, the irregularities of arms trafficking. I would like to point out, as I have already mentioned at the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, that the interest of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the arms trade, in the period 1991, 1993, in which there is a suspicion of a criminal offence or personal abuse of individuals, is to be examined definitively in all cases where there are grounds for such additional and new procedures and that the authorities of detection and prosecution of justice carry out their work. On this occasion, it is appropriate to make a brief review of the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in clearing up arms trade. The undeniable fact is that before and after independence Slovenia was legitimate, completely justified and legally armed. As a result of the extension of the armed conflict after the war in Slovenia in the territory of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia has also assisted these two former republics in the interest of ensuring its own security for a certain period of time. In 1993, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially after the discovery of weapons at the Maribor airport, dealt with the arms trade in the territory of Slovenia. It was based on the view that in 1991, 1992 there was a trade in weapons for its own defence purposes and in the form of assistance to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to a certain extent. In view of the many information that has occurred in the public as well as in order to identify possible irregularities in the procurement and sale of military weapons and equipment, the Government has entrusted the competent authorities with the task of doing everything within their powers to clarify matters. It called for a comprehensive study and a clear distinction between an activity of interest to the State and that which was linked to the suspicion of personal exploitation of individuals and criminal offences. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Owl, have brought charges in evidence of the crime. In cases where the elements for the suspicion of a crime have not been identified, reports have been drawn up for the prosecutions. On the basis of these investigations, the MNZ and OSCE Crime Service handed over 16 criminal charges to the competent state prosecutions, involving 21 suspects of 25 different offences. A number of judicial proceedings were also initiated, but they were largely closed by acquittals. Given that I'm running out of time, I'm going to try to maximize the amount of time I need, and maybe I'll try to keep up with the additional activities in relation to the investigative requirements. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I would like to point out that everything has been done by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to investigate arms trafficking and that, on the basis of the findings, appropriate procedures have been initiated and implemented. Both the government and its ministries have been constantly investigating irregularities within the scope of their competence, while the government emphasises that detection and prosecution authorities and judicial authorities are still obliged to carry out all the necessary activities and procedures to detect possible crimes and their perpetrators are punished. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, of course, cooperate with this, both with the National Assembly and with the relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. We also received your supplementary reply in writing, so that colleagues and colleagues have it in front of them. I will now give the floor to the representatives to present the views of the delegations. Just one more thing. Comrade Jeliničič, at the end of your sentence, I apologize if I did not understand clearly enough, but if I did, then I believe that this refers to your constitutional right to collect the required number of signatures to order the National Assembly to a parliamentary inquiry. It is not possible to draw other conclusions on this matter. Please, Comrade Jelinčič, just to clarify this, so that it does not remain in the air, that it will ultimately decide which decision, because this meeting is not intended to do so. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is true that this decision was not put to the vote today. But I have another wish. Since no one wants to talk about anything, I would ask you, Mr President, to provide me with complete immunity, and I will tell you the names and dates and sums here. Just please provide me with complete immunity, without saying that when I say the names, they will sue me and that I will pay, as I have already paid, because the National Assembly does not want to accept that proposal, so that the Member will have immunity before a civil suit, not just before a criminal complaint.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u75	For you there is the same right of immunity as for any of us, and I have no authority to increase or reduce it, please, Comrade Jelinčič. I will now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Like any other subject, we will do it quite peacefully, Comrade Jelinčič. First of all, my colleague Štemberger for the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia. A Slovenian Democratic Party? Not at all. Comrade Kontić, United Nations Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we decided to vote in favour of the proposed debate on the response of the Prime Minister of Slovenia to the question of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite. We did so in the vast majority of cases when we decided on the debate on the questions raised by the Members. This, apart from the opinions and views of the groups of Members and Members of Parliament, does not allow for the adoption of conclusions that could help to resolve individual problems that we remind Members and Members of Parliament by asking questions or initiatives sent. On the basis of such behaviour, it cannot be concluded that we are opposed to the investigation of arms trafficking in the United List of Social Democrats. To refresh my memory, only the fact that a group of Members with our first-signed Member Jožet Jagodniki raised 27 questions in 1993, which were never satisfactorily answered. This is only in support of the claim that we have also sought to obtain our epilogue in the United List of Social Democrats. We also participated in an investigative commission that dealt with arms trafficking and did not complete its work in the way we expected. Today, too, we want all the circumstances to be investigated and the final answers to be received on arms trafficking. In the debate on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, I will reflect all the information I have obtained as a member of the Security and Information Services Supervisory Commission. It is possible to conclude only by reading the newspaper articles in which the authors dealt with the arms trade. Trade is certainly necessary to be divided into at least two parts. The first part covers trade for the purposes of own arms at the time before and during self-absorbing. There was no choice back then. We needed weapons, and they had to buy them. I believe it was dangerous and difficult to do at the time. Unfortunately, events in Slovenia have confirmed those who were convinced that we must arm ourselves. Those who risked their lives for the needs of the independent state of Slovenia are, of course, all thanks. At that time, however, they had to keep a record of the purchases and also a record of the costs. And if the records match, we have no desire to continue this discussion. The second period is the time after independence, when we were not directly threatened by military threats or military aggression. But even then, it was necessary to arm itself, even then, for its own sake. At the same time, it was a time when war broke out in the neighbouring country and its neighbors. They needed weapons for their defenses. The time for arms trade was more than appropriate, and the arms trade was booming. Who, who, how much, by what, and why questions remain open until today. Did he trade for cash? Where's that cash? Where are the records of the sold arms owned by the Republic of Slovenia? Did they buy weapons abroad and sell them? Were they war profiteers? These are questions that require clear answers and also consistency. People are asking for these answers. They require clean accounts, not just in ownership, not in public procurement and not only in the conduct of the current authority. Clean accounts are also required for that time, including with the freedom of Slovenia or the hardship of neighbours, no one should take advantage. The answers to all these questions will almost certainly not be heard today, because today we are only discussing the Prime Minister's response to the question raised. However, the story of course will not end with this, for in the course of the adoption of the conclusions, in the examination of the report of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, we have also adopted a decision under order number 5. This is a decision which states: 'The National Assembly shall propose to the Commission for the supervision of the work of the Security and Intelligence Services to obtain, before the next report, documentation relating to the so-called arms trade held by the Security and Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, and shall, on the basis of this, include in its report information on the flow and value of cash payment in this regard.' We will therefore support all the efforts and actions that will result in the implementation of the decision we have taken in the consideration of the report in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. We will insist that, on the basis of the data obtained by the Supervisory Board in recent times, all facts are investigated and the possible identification of the guilt is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Comrade Contic. Mr Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members! Government representatives, Prime Minister! Slovenia found itself in such sensitive and political circumstances at the time, in 1990 and until 1991, which was a historical event for the Slovenian people in 1991, when Slovenia gained its independence. In the Slovenian People's Party, we appreciate and respect all those efforts, both individuals and political summits, that we have gained independence. This price of independence in 1991, so that we could also preserve Slovenian nationality, our country, pride, integrity, they also had certain powers to provide the necessary weapons for the independence of Slovenia in one way or another. The manoeuvre structure and all those politicians, experts who have in any way influenced that we are able to do what we are today, have played an important role and we are grateful to them in the Slovenian People's Party. And we respect that and we are very pleased to be able to speak in a democratic and parliamentary manner in this Chamber today. However, after the war in 1991, military warehouses were emptied throughout Slovenia. We were an oasis of Central Europe, bordering the Balkans, where the Balkan war was on the march. We all know, both from certain articles, both from the parliamentary commissions, two parliamentary commissions, which took place within the ten-year term of this assembly, that Slovenia was or was involved in the arms trade or individuals. A lot of dust, lots of articles, a lot of parliamentary work and some other services have been invested in this trade and in this effort to detect this trade. However, in the Slovenian People's Party we have accompanied both the Jagodnik Commission and the Moget Commission, where we can find with all responsibility that parliamentary democracy has been initiated in the investigation, both by one commission and the last, led by Mr Moge. To urge the Prime Minister to consider further activities of his work, to ensure that we maintain the pride, reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, and to maintain our integrity in such a way as to ensure that certain documents also carry strict confidential material. However, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that there is no document before Parliament, either before an individual or before a commission in the Republic of Slovenia, which could be hidden from such and other committees, which have public legal powers, documents or information. Neither by the government nor by some other authorities in the government are procedures allowed to prevent a Slovenian parliamentarian from coming to the truth, to those documents which are important for the work of Parliament, parliamentary commissions. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also note, and probably also individual members of the parliamentary group will also point out in the debate below that some Members, such as government representatives, have been involved in some of the political issues that they have raised in Parliament or in the Slovenian public, the target of such or other attacks. The target of criminal attacks, which has not yet been made available by the authorities responsible for clarifying these attacks on individual parliamentarians, government representatives and some other figures of public life in Slovenian politics. This is also the responsibility of the government, in particular the government, which is responsible for its work to Parliament's parliamentary committees. And if an individual or a commission asks the government, the authorities in the government, they must give you all the information they have in their archives. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party we support parliamentary democracy, we support the protection of the rule of law. The only legal country can ensure that Slovenian nationals, Slovenian citizens living in the Republic of Slovenia, are safe both from authorities and individuals, both from criminal associations and from certain other criminals who are on the march of Central Europe. Even in the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the consequences for the future of the Slovenian country of any kind of arms trade that has flourished in our Republic of Slovenia during its period, which has been present both between individuals and some national authorities. The fact is, some of them were responsible. For one trade or another, they had the power to carry out arms trade under the authority of the State. However, in the Slovenian People's Party we advocate that, if there is a suspicion, it is confirmed that any individual, any body, has gone through the authority given by the State by the Slovenian political summit, so that individuals are asked by the State authorities to investigate such cases and also to explain to Slovenian citizens. After 10 years, the Slovenian nation deserves the truth, the Slovenian nation has tried to win its country, its independence, its reputation in Europe and NATO. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are concerned about our transition both in the European Union and in NATO, we do not imagine that some of our persons who work in our national authorities, who will have access to certain data within NATO, would have a conflict both on our side and on our side with some bodies within NATO. In fact, we warn and are confident in the Slovenian People's Party that foreign intelligence services, foreign authorities, foreign countries have specific information on who and how arms trade in the Republic of Slovenia has gone since 1991. This could have major consequences for the further transition to the Euro-Atlantic link of the Republic of Slovenia, insofar as such matters and such things could not be cleared up in the Republic of Slovenia and properly ensured the rule of law and the security of the country. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party we will support every activity that will follow both in the National Assembly and in some government bodies to ensure the legal order and security of the Republic of Slovenia both in Slovenia and in some of the Euro-Atlantic and other transitions that are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will now be presented by my colleague Peca and then there is a presentation of the LDS Club's position on my list and a debate between Members and Members. First of all, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u80	Dearly present, when my fellow Member launched a debate on arms trafficking on 24.11.2003, we expected, of course, anything other than today's unreality, the leadership of the national assembly on the issue. We or we knew that we would not talk about that part of the arms trade that is under state control, which led to the possibility of the country's independence, because it is right that this work has occurred. It was right that this part was controlled, and it is right that things were going as they were, because today we are living in our country, which we have enabled ourselves to do just that. However, we expected to speak frankly about the part of the arms trade that has erupted under the control of the state with individuals within individual ministries and individual government or para-government services. We have a lot of documents in the National Party. Everyone speaks or everyone has in the upper half of the document the designation "defence", "official secret", "uncertainly confidential", and we are subject to all these documents on the basis of their classification, which means we must not talk about them. However, we believe that these documents are still in the services and archives of this National Assembly, so we find Mrs Veliskova's behaviour more unacceptable and, of course, Mr Pahor's, which makes it impossible for this debate to take place in the direction that we have planned or directed in the National Party. The documents, names and surnames for which the so-called professional services of this National Assembly are strictly deleted and deleted, further, the accounts in foreign banks and through foreign intermediaries. For them, I think we know almost everyone in this national council. Sadly, though, it is because of a system that protects and hides those that have erupted under the control of the State that, on the one hand, it is possible for the public, in part, to be exposed. And this is the threat that we estimate in the National Party that it would be worth interrupting. This tradition of protecting individuals who have started their work in the interests of the State has left this interest behind quite soon. Even if we look at the government's response to the tables today, the government's complementary response to the question posed by the Victory of Jelinčič, we see that it points to a lack of seriousness and that it is not in the interests of individuals within the government to clarify this issue. What did we get on the table today? Today, we have received the number of those little thieves repenting with firecrackers from 1991 to today. That's what we got in the government's response. But the main point, the demands for a discussion of the Victory of Jelinčič was, of course, to come and interrupt that part of the illicit traffic that has engulfed control, perhaps power or institutions, and came into the control of individuals, at home and abroad. Since 24.11, when he highlighted the debate and was not satisfied with the government's response, the National Party was extremely large in number of calls via both mobile phones and mobile phones, i.e. stations, under the heading of the initiative and questions of Victory Jelinčič. So it's business time, and it's out of business time. But the most worrying thing is that individuals whose names, even though they try to cover up their professional services, are hoping not to see them, to present themselves with names and surnames and easily via telephones, but unfortunately also to personally threaten. And how, then, should it be kept in mind that this national assembly, as the chairman has also said, will not guarantee immunity or decide on what particular matter. Then what is it together, we wonder how much this organisation or organised individuals has in this national assembly, as has been seen today through the debate of the President of the National Assembly, the image in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as has been seen from today's answer to the question raised, even some possibility of speaking. If he says the name and surname that we all know or that he knows most of us if he points out the account number, if he points out the indirect bank he'll be sued. But those real criminals, organized crime that we all know of, will remain intact. And this is this parody of this Slovenian parliamentaryism. In the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, two members of the group gave up. Probably. Probably. [[...]] [[A warning from the president.]] because there is no protection or desire for certain matters to come to the place and at least some credibility, if not all of them have been violated, this country has been saved both in international terms and, of course, more importantly, in front of the local public. [[...]] One of the discussions was that they opposed today's debate because it was impossible to reach any conclusions. However, it was this parliamentary group that advocated that they were against today's debate, where no decision could be taken, that it had written a Rules of Procedure which prohibited that any decisions could be taken. Isn't that a hoax? This is a long-term planned transfer from the very beginning of the writing of the Rules of Procedure and the instructions of conduct, acting in this National Assembly. In the National Party, I think I can express indignation on behalf of the Group of Members; indignation at the conduct of individuals in this country who have a reputation in those real great actors. Not in us here, but we can meet up with a matter of "strictly confidential, official secret, defence" and such. But today it turns out that they remain untouchable. And I am pleased that citizens and citizens who watch this directly through television broadcasts have also been able to overlook this. So that we have actually shown them that we have citizens who are protected, who can do anything that could start with financial transfers that have come from the country and continue the individual way of taking advantage of individuals. And we're not talking about a few million here, we're talking about a lot, a lot higher amounts. At the National Party, we will try to get the most out of today's debate, although we are probably optimistic. Particularly optimistic, given that, as I said before, those who might say something today have already canceled the debate. However, we believe that at least the public debate will, on the one hand, sober the leadership of the National Assembly so that it will not be so macho as to work with documents, on the other hand, more importantly, that we will be able to deal with the arms trade issue, the part that has been blown out of control, at least in the future, and without such fear, to be able to make individual threats, which I know in 30 days that we are members of the National Party, probably also some of the other members of the National Assembly, can speak without burden, especially in that form, that we are not being sued by the same State. Because it makes very little sense for me at this point to defend the interests of this country, and later the same country will allow you to be sued. To whom, then, to speak if it is in the interest of individuals to hide matters, if that interest of individuals is so strong that it has a judicial branch of authority under it. But if he had a gun store under him, we all know anyway. It's just sad that this will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u81	That's all I want to say is how many years of criticism I've had. Political criticism is legitimate, and I can't argue about it from this place, and I won't. But as for the criticism at the expense of the job, I have to say it again. Legal and legal services never receive instructions on how to act. From my office, there are only two requests for speeding up or for a matter to be clarified more thoroughly so that I can hold a Parliamentary meeting or make different decisions. So I ask you not to question the integrity of the position-making service. I just gave you an explanation. Let's move on. Let's move on, Comrade Marshich. You will be given the floor in a procedural manner, only the views of the members of the groups need to be heard. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u82	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'm sure you'll agree with me completely. Today we have an item on the agenda, an additional reply from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to the oral question of Mr Zmaj Jelinčič. I would be very happy if the Prime Minister, who answered this question, and in view of this tidbit written to him by his ministers in charge of this department, would be present at this site because he would hear from us individuals much more specific information and more relevant information than his representatives or some members of the government in this response. I therefore propose that you call on the Prime Minister to follow up on the answers and some of the debates of individual Members, so that he can actually assess for himself the state of the matter and what is actually happening within individual sources. I will also discuss the substance, in particular, with the names and surnames of some, so I would like to ask him to participate in the further discussion, or listen, or be present in this Chamber. And for the reasons I have, purely personal, to respect this institution, to us parliamentarians, that the Prime Minister is present in the debate itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u83	Let me just say it. I think that Mr Prime Minister will join again very soon, at least he has ensured the presence and participation of this point, so that I give the floor to my colleague Marsich. He will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and then we will go to the debate of Members and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called arms trade was carried out by two parliamentary investigative commissions: during the period 1999-2000 the investigative commission of the National Assembly on the involvement and responsibility of the holders of public functions regarding the finding of weapons at the Maribor airport and the equipment and weapons in the warehouse of the Ložnica, chaired by Member Rudolf Moge and, between 1993 and 1996, by the Commission of Inquiry, the responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the finding of weapons at the Maribor airport, the President of which was Member Zoran Madon. Due to the time constraints, the poor cooperation of ministries with the commissions, the government's silence on the decision of the National Assembly and the change of government in 2000, as well as the lack of political will, the persons involved have made it impossible for the National Assembly to reach out to all knowledge of illegal arms trafficking, particularly in the part in which some holders of public functions may be involved. The question is whether today's debate will bring more knowledge than the last investigative commission, whose materials are now available to all Members. It is clear from these materials that illegal arms trade has taken place, that it has been involved by some representatives of ministries that are still performing public functions and that trade has taken place through accounts abroad, oil and cash supply. It is also clear that the documentation is insufficient and that evidence of alleged illegal trade is based primarily on statements made by some, in these actions directly involved officials, which provide concrete material evidence or perhaps cover them up. It is also alleged that this type of documentation was destroyed within the mandate of the First Minister of Defence. The debate on arms trafficking should be concluded, but not by intertwining the problem under the carpet, but by finalising the extent of illegal trafficking and the responsibility of the persons involved in the illicit arms trade within the framework of the established parliamentary and business procedures, as this would cast out all doubts as to whether the Republic of Slovenia is even a legal state. Therefore, it was the LDS Members and Members, together with some colleagues and colleagues of other parliamentary groups, that we proposed a decision at the last reading of the report of the State Security and Intelligence Supervisory Committee, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its 22nd meeting, on 29.1.2003, which reads: "The National Assembly proposes to the Supervisory Committee on Security and Intelligence Services to obtain documentation on the so-called arms trade held by the Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, before the next report, and to include in its report information on the flow and value of cash payment in this regard." In the LDS Group, we believe that, in accordance with this Decision, the Ministry of the Interior and the SOVA should also cooperate with the National Assembly, since, after all, these two services have information or documentation on illicit arms trafficking. In the LDS Group, we believe that it is precisely the commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services to be the bearer of the latest findings concerning the so-called arms trade, as the documentation shows that they dealt with the arms trade to the greatest extent with the members of both VIS and WOMO security and intelligence services. The government should respond to all the decisions adopted by the National Assembly in this regard and individual ministries should enable the Commission to work in accordance with the legislation in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also give an opinion on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. The New Slovenia Group strongly supports and advocates respect for the Constitution and also the laws and that all those who have in any way interfered with illegal business to be persecuted. As in the anti-corruption law, we have said that this is primarily the responsibility of the regulatory institutions we have to conduct these procedures to prosecute crime. These institutions, now I don't know if they're qualified, have powers, all those who give them the law and the constitution, and they have to prove themselves. However, in the case of cases such as Troja, where some of the applicants are expected to consider the matter on the basis of newspaper articles, they may also be moved by a hearing on the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Board. Of course, I do not go through such things because I can read and study newspaper articles at home. We were particularly interested in how many legitimacys there are, how many true, real original documents, on the basis of which persecution is possible. Those institutions that are, if the government services think they're understaffed, that they're not qualified enough, please complete them. That's why you have the power, you have the scissors and the canvas. Do it for God's sake. That is why this debate, particularly by the ruling coalition, is ridiculous, it is unreasonable to arrange here in some debates - call, look at the parties to the ruling coalition leading all law enforcement agencies, run all ministries, have all the heads of administration, all the offices, even the anti-corruption office. What else do you have? You have a defence minister whom Mr Marsič spoke about, that there are also documents at the defence ministry. What are you waiting for? Who are you waiting for? But our fellow Members, that we may search through the drawers and study. In the end, we may really have to do this. For God's sake, start working again. If there is anything here, all those, including those you mentioned, that is, Members of the National Party, as far as you have the documents, the real documents pointing to crime, then you are obliged under the criminal code to inform the competent authorities, otherwise you are responsible, as if I were in such a case, to conceal the data. If that's it, I don't know, I'm not sure. If you're sure, I don't blame you, but if you have something like this, then you can press charges. Just as we did in New Slovenia, as I did in the case of Elan, where I received an opinion and interpretation in such a different way that the contract was therefore concluded illegally. That it's clearly a crime. As a citizen, not as a Member, or as a Member, if you wish, I have put forward all that was necessary to verify the reality of the facts and to do what is done in our country under the law of the Constitution. If you feel that the re-establishment of the commission would lead somewhere further, then we are also prepared to support it. However, if one or two investigative committees that have begun to work much closer to those events have not found that the law enforcement authorities, as the Prime Minister says, have either been dismissed or the court has found that they are not guilty, then those cases, however, cannot be carried forward, except I do not know, the renewal of the procedure, as far as there are indications. And I would like to invite representatives or Members of the National Party or others to take action in this regard and we will support you in the New Slovenia Group as far as this is concerned. Thus, it is not possible to resolve the problem of arms trafficking when it comes to independence, by listening to the report, or by analysing newspaper articles, and probably not by debate in Parliament. She may move something, but we can't solve it. Slovenia armed itself at the time of independence and armed itself in a legitimate manner. It had a legitimacy, a legitimate right to implement two projects: independence from that boiler and the establishment of a democratic state. And it was hard. People are convinced that everything has been arranged in the right way. If there is any suspicion, if anyone has any document indicating that it has not been lawfully carried out and that it was then a matter of leniency, let him do as the laws and civil duty require.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When you spoke, you said you allowed me to look into the files. And once again, Mr President, the law on classified information in Article 3 says otherwise - it does not allow me to look at it, but allows me to have a document to see it processed, not to look at it from afar, as you would like to show it. Nor does the law separate the different kinds of Members, as you mentioned earlier. And one more thing. The declaration of immunity I have is, to say the least, unfair or false. You know exactly that the Member has no immunity, so to speak, has immunity from prosecution, but not before a civil lawsuit that brings a considerable financial burden. Therefore, do not be misled or cast sand in the eyes of fellow Members and Members, when you know exactly what this is about. But you don't want to do anything to make it different. Of course not, because this way you can keep Members of Parliament in check. You, the ones who tell you to do this, the ones who tell you that. That's not how it works! It just doesn't work that way. When Mr Rop spoke about research, he mentioned Mr Zoran Madon, who led the Commission of Inquiry in 1993-1996. Nothing was done on this committee, absolutely nothing. Neither did the final report of the Commission, nor did the President of the Commission wish to submit the final report. Actually, I was already on that term in the National Assembly, so I know what it is. There was no question of where the weapons came from in Maribor and where the weapons went from Maribor, the one that was already going or the one that went from the bedroom. Nothing's done. But look at the fragment, at the end of the day, Mr. Madonna had a nice farm with a bunch of cattle on that farm when he left parliament. I don't mean to say whatever it was, but it sure is interesting. Because since I don't have any immunity, I can't say anything else. However, I think I am finally grateful to Mr Rob for his willingness and promise to cooperate with all the efforts to expose this inconsequential "robota", of course, in the next term, because it is necessary to be aware that there is no time now. It's not. If we were to open an investigative committee now, we wouldn't even be able to review all the documentation already available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u89	My friend Anderlich? No, no, no. Comrade Bernick? No, no, no. My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Slovenia was legally independent, especially in the defence area, practically all the measures implemented were measures for legislation adopted in due time, not in return, but in the future. This fact makes it quite easy to separate legal from illegal arms trafficking, both of which existed. The one that was just necessary for the state to be able to defend itself and then to form its own defence system. And there was also an illegal arms trade. As it was said, ships of illegal weapons were coming, illegal weapons planes were coming in, trucks were coming in with containers of illegal weapons. Every time we wanted to get to the bottom of this illegal arms trade, questions began to be asked about the legal trade in weapons. And things went somewhere else. Given that there has been and that there is a legal basis on which it is possible to distinguish legally from illegal trade, it would be possible to illegally trade at this time - in the last ten years at least - very easy to sanction criminally. But none of this happened. Those who had all the instruments in their hands at that time did not carry out any proceedings. A lot of people started, and it wasn't finished. And that is the situation to some extent today. When someone asks a question about illegal trade, it begins to talk about the arms trade before the conquest, or at the time of the conquest, which was, hand to heart, what the Slovenian independence has only made possible. And it is very interesting that most of these questions are asked by those of the old authorities who have done everything, or who have done nothing to prevent the Slovenian territorial defence from being disarmed. Because if you weren't disarmed, you wouldn't have to get those weapons either. Maybe one thing will come to an end. It has been going on for a while since 11 September 2001. International investigation into sources of financing for international terrorism, as well as on the sources of international terrorist groups' weapons. Slovenia is also involved in this investigation in a smaller part. This is the famous route of China-Sudan-Maribor Airport, where, under the cover of Bosnian Army equipment or assistance from the Bosnian army, some extremist groups in Bosnia have tried to equip in particular. To a large extent, separate from the then Bosnian authorities and through the cooperation of names that are now very well known from international terrorism logos. This investigation is still ongoing. This investigation will not be stopped by a power centre in Slovenia. And I hope we can at least get clean about this one time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u91	Come in. Comrade onion, colleague of Peca. You want a word? Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u92	In my implementation, I would like to refer mainly to Mr Drobnic and to you, Mr Pahor. The documents marked "defense", "official secret", "severely confidential", that is, those documents that Members can obtain, and some of them we have acquired, or those with which the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Board has control of the security and intelligence services have exactly as you have instructed, because you have just said so, crossed names and last names or deleted. So how can this National Assembly even discuss if it is such a directive or your requirement for individual services. I believe, Mr. Pahor, you find this ridiculous. But I don't think that's funny. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u93	No, no, no. Either you don't understand me or you don't understand me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u94	Mr. Pahor, may I say to the end? [[...]] I'm time-bound.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u95	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you. The desire of the National Party was to stimulate the debate. In part, but unfortunately, of course, we only encouraged the debate in opposition circles. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has even more indicated that it does not want to participate. For, in a letter from the government signed by Mr Damjan Lah, he speaks - that is, in response to the question of the Victory of Jelinčič, as I said at the outset, in the presentation of the parliamentary group - he speaks, that is, when we are talking about illegal or legal trade in weapons, exclusively weapons, firecrackers and various pyrotechnic means used for New Year's parties. Therefore, this clearly indicates that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no interest in discussing the above-mentioned matter, that the National Assembly, the leadership of the National Assembly, has no interest in this, you have proved. On the other hand, colleague Janš mentioned one of the ways [[China - Sudan - Maribor airport]] . According to our assessment, there is at least so much if it is not more important and it would be reasonable to discuss if, of course, conditions were given, but the conditions given were not given to us in particular, as regards the market connection, which later proved to be around the secondary, speculative market, which in part also caused the need to rehabilitate the New Ljubljana Bank - but of course this is also not interesting. Even more. We know that the deposal, which was later transferred to the financial market, was even approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And for the end of my performance. Also to you, Mr Pahor, and to explain to Mr Drobnič, who, after my assessment of the matter, took the matter over hand and very flat-rate; in the National Party, in preparation for this point of the National Assembly, for which we hoped it would deliver better quality by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and by government parties, we have sent ten requests. You did not give a positive response to either of these requests. So how can we prepare a high-quality session if all the things we asked you for, that is, the individual documents marked with the numbers, the dates and the names and surnames, came up with a negative response. All these documents were quoted at the outset by the leader of the parliamentary group Zmago Jelinčič. To conclude, let me just say one thing: it was never a problem of legal trade in weapons, because this has actually allowed us to make Slovenia independent so quality and so fast. The problem is illegal trade, not the one talking about pyrotechnic means, as Mr Damjan Vlah tells us from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but especially the one that takes place in the conduct and some of the members of the National Assembly who are trying to prevent it - here I have to expose Mr Mojet - and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which unfortunately does nothing in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u97	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, As you know, a very complex institution cannot be managed if certain rules are not followed. One of these is that the President, the Head of the National Assembly, follows the positions of the Legislative and Legal Service. I told you, we don't give them any instructions - all the services. Except for two requests, whenever necessary: to hurry a little with a request or to explain a particular question in order to make it easier to make a decision. That's why we have these jobs to rely on, but we don't give them instructions, some political guidance. And now they're preventing this discussion, etc. Please, these are unfounded charges at the expense of the service. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u98	Mr. Pahor! It seems unwarranted to me that you will not complete one of the ten matters. This is largely unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u99	Let's move on. I think we need to calmly finish the discussion. I'm a colleague of mine. [[No, no, ……]] My friend Kangler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam President. And I think that some of the concerns and criticisms that have been expressed here today in the National Assembly are at the expense of the leadership of the National Assembly. They're holding very tight. If I start with this, remember when some of the individual members of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission asked us to look into some of the documents she had as confidential in the archives of the National Assembly, and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly refused to allow us access and access to the archives. That's unacceptable. We had to wait three months for this move and we had to bring Mr Pirnate into this house to interpret certain laws. And then don't say that the secretary-general didn't have the hearing to serve some of the commissions that work in the National Assembly and committees and help. She interfered with our work. Some of us have been victims of crimes - to this day nothing has happened in the National Assembly, as far as our security and security of our assets are concerned. Nothing happened. And a year ago, just last Christmas, that's what happened, before Christmas, when some of the tires were "squeezing" us, they were smashing glass, and the secretary-general hasn't done anything in this area to this day. The police have the same system for video surveillance around the National Assembly and could still list. I'm sorry. My fellow Members are right. She didn't do anything without knowing without knowing. It has not provided resources in the budget to ensure the safety of this house, the environment, our property. And look, what is the complementary response of the Prime Minister, I am very surprised that some of these complementary responses have been signed. This is a mockery from Parliament and individual Members who have asked a question to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister was not asked a question on this subject, which some ministers had prepared an answer to - how many crimes have been committed in some period, detected at the border where they take the side of the quantity of weapons, or of the criminal society, or otherwise. Exactly what kind of gun trade it was. I don't know where to start, given that I have very little time, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. It is also likely that last Friday in Paloma, where the Ministry of Defence has a contract, some documents were destroyed. That's the case. Before we are given the opportunity to debate in this national assembly on such an important issue as the principles of Mr Jelinčič. As far as I know, last Friday, some archives from the Ministry of Defence, concerning the Ložnica warehouse, were destroyed in Paloma. It's probably just an accident, a regular procedure after 10 years of archives, and it could still be listed. No one's gonna convince me that this is just a case. Dear Members and Members! Is it really just a coincidence that a fellow Member of the Commission of Inquiry, Rudy Mogo, is the target of the crime of breaking into his apartment? A fellow messenger, while driving home, his tire breaks, he smells of powder - others interpret differently. It is for the same fellow Member to find his vault unlocked twice in the National Assembly. It's probably just a case. No, it's not! In front of the witnesses, four members of the commission, including the Chairman of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission, stated on a magnetogram a number of words to the Director of the Intelligence Service. There are four witnesses: Jelinčič, Mr Moge, me and Mr Jerovšek. About the break-in at the county barracks. After three months of checking this statement, the Director claims otherwise. When it's time for me and my buddy Moze to go watch the tape, go listen to the tape - it's all erased, it's not written. It's gone! Who allows himself to walk through our records, our house, according to your household, again it's just a case. I'm not in the National Assembly for 14 days, I don't come for six hours, the computer operator asks me what you were doing behind the computer -- I wasn't there, I couldn't affect this box. Those are the facts, that's the truth. The Director of Intelligence lies to four parliamentarians and receives an ambassadoric seat for the prize. Why are these principles? When our commission asked about the arms trade, especially after trade and work with cash, we received data on very small amounts of value - not to speak concrete data - about millions of tolars "fail" and a million half, and there are no other data. But when you analyze that this same director of the Department of Defence Intelligence was at the time of Minister Janša, the chief, the cabinet, that there were witnesses when they handed him a black bag of cash, that the same person was with Janez Drnovšk when he was Prime Minister, an advisor in the government, and that the same person came back as the director of the intelligence service, and that the same person claimed that there was no trade in weapons for cash; he said he was lying to the MPs of the National Assembly. No one in this country has done anything, it is said, from Members of Parliament and Parliamentary Democracy can do anything that they make up - lies, deceives and could even list. Time's running fast. The last time we did surveillance in this service, the files are probably for one meter - archive, and after a randomly selected folder, as I said, this folder, when I read it, are in there official tags showing that they talk about the arms trade for large cash amounts. And when the counselor of the director of the service tells you that when you ask him why they didn't do all the interviews, he tells you that those foreigners who got us cash to lie, because they're from the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, that Croats are lying. And when you go through that archive, you see that there's only one piece of material evidence that only some operatives sit behind that map, collect data and can write a criminal complaint. That's not the problem at all! Slovenia needed weapons. Slovenia also had to buy it for cash. I'm aware of that, and you're probably aware of that. She needed it. Even after 1992, we needed such and different weapons, given the situation and the political situation that was taking place and the fact that we were actually before the Balkan war. But there's no record of it anywhere. How much revenue, cash, and how much cash. Even if it was a car, if it was a rifle, if it was equipment, gas masks, I don't know what. There's no question. The point is, there's no record of a cash deal. There's no question if someone brought so much and so much money into the jacket. It was just the way it was. The trouble is, there's no record of how much and where that money went. That's controversial. And obviously because of such and different connections where the directors and those who get to know each other and who know where and how this money was spent or how this trade went in the Republic of Slovenia is divided, whether it is an opposition or a coalition. Which divides the chairs, which walk left, right, into all the functions. To the biggest directors of Slovenian companies. Toza some Slovenian democracy and political hygiene is not normal. It's not normal. Of course, it is normal that these are such and different connections between individuals who are needed in such a way and in a different way some [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I am very sorry that I have run out of time, I may still be able to serve with some specific information, you, my fellow Members, but I will present this on the committee or committee responsible, a magnetogram will be written, I hope that I have given you some of the pointers in mind - I will finish the president. [[...]] I think that in this house parliamentary democracy must play its role, regardless of who is in the position, who is in the opposition. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the Prime Minister with an escort. I hope that at least this debate will bring a number of things to mind in these stories, what has been going on and what is still going on, and how can a number of people rightly be concerned when they seek refuge in the repressive authorities, who should detect and bring matters to an end. In the past, I kind of wanted to or had to listen to some things about the arms trade from people who were involved. I didn't believe it for a long time. There was a lot going on. I was also one of those people that Kangler's been talking about, and he's been banging on my car. And in all these stories, when we're talking, I think there's two of them. We're talking about illegal arms trafficking, whether it's buying and selling for high fees or emptying the barracks. I personally didn't have so much trouble looking into the paperwork, because I got to a place where it was possible very quickly. And I was appalled when I believed for a long time that those stories that I had listened to were not real, but then I saw that it was all true and all sorts of other things. What happened in the barracks when they were partially emptied, and then they let the robbers wipe out all traces. How do we have 10,000 marks recorded? Millions of marks meant nothing to these people. That's what they were wearing, they were rolling, the numbers were changing, and they were disappearing. Cyprus went a million marks - bad business, they just disappeared -, it rumbled once so much in Austria. Stories with different people we've been listening to here. And of course, no end. Croatian television was broadcast on arms trafficking two months ago when people told stories about how they were carrying money in bags, how they were taking over convoys. They may want to warn us that sooner or later they will try to get back what they have paid. Of course, we have 10,000 marks available from this business. My friend Madonna didn't find anything. I completely disagree with my colleague Jelinčič, what and how. If someone asked him why, of course, if he had hoped to tell himself how he had been threatened, he would have given up. Or maybe he wasn't qualified for it. And that someone who is qualified, competent, sworn, did not do what was done in this chain. 16 charges, they all went down, everything went down. At the Public Prosecutor's Office, we got a special economic crime group that specializes in creating Depala village, arms trafficking and so on. Was that where the charges fell? I think there; we know who was there. Isn't it worrying that your colleagues are just making a big deal out of it in one day? The links of those involved, mentioned above, are found in our documentation names that we are not supposed to talk about. The connections of these people, Depala you, spy van, theft in Postojna - always the same persons appear, but today they are employed in various government bodies. Is this some kind of parallel system of government in this country? Some people find it difficult to endure the stories they have experienced. I don't know, like, a bit of a confusing story. Maybe you get confused when you experience all this live, and then you see that you're "weak." Maybe he's embarrassed to be confused today and no one believes him, and that's good for a lot of people. Today’s stories are related to those that we can also read in our confidential documents. What's been canceled here? Everything! Intelligence services - something has always happened that the system has failed. The police have always had some flawed information that they still did not serve anyone. What was Depala you? You were attacked by a story where police representatives were looking for documentation about the arms trade that someone else wanted to prevent or destroy. Not to mention the prosecutions. Everything was falling down there, everything was groundless, everything was numb. Even during these investigations, especially when the Moget Commission has been working quite intensively and has supplied mountains of documentation that are obviously worthless today. And it is not the same as the documentation that is being prepared for the President and, of course, there is a lot missing in the middle. In court, I don't want to talk about the courts right now, that everything is corrupt, but I don't understand that usually when you get involved in court, everything falls again. Yesterday, I think, a story like that. Untouchable! And of course, how far does it go? Back then, stories in the Kočevska River that were, we saw that all of these people were allowed and that they thought they had the country in their hands at that time and for all time. And it was probably what was going on. And to conclude. I am concerned or I hope to predict that this unexplained trade and money from the arms trade will decide who will sit in this Parliament in the next assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u103	Dorian Marshich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u104	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also agree that it is possible that the process of independence in the Republic of Slovenia has taken place legally. However, it is a matter of whether, in the area that we are dealing with today, all things have been carried out in accordance with the law, in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd only give you a case that I've personally met. It is very good to remember that it was necessary to unload the convoys that JLA left on the wagons with equipment in Slovenia. The question is, where else did this weapon go? They say that mainly for equipping our units, but probably one part for doing so, I will say, the acquisition of the weapons and equipment that the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina needed at the time. This unloading, which was sometimes unsupervised, also due to the danger of mined wagons - dangerous - took place in the absence of voluntary co-financing of our economy. At that time, the Ministry of Defence, under the designation "strictly confidential", adopted a regulation on labour duty, which, according to my personal conviction, should have already been a category in the form of a law, not a regulation, and enforced by companies having to unload wagons, full of military equipment, on the basis of calls. Although this Regulation has been adopted, it has been in very strict violation, as not all conditions for the introduction of work duties have been met and the Minister has not issued appropriate and prescribed orders. On the basis of this regulation, workers unloaded free of charge without the organisers taking into account and complying with the labour law. But it's just one case that things can get past the law. It also required the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior at that time for the import and export of weapons. However, the documentation shows that this has always not been the case, which means that the rules were broken here too. I will not talk about how respected or disrespected customs and accounting regulations were. It is interesting that the conclusions of the National Assembly have never been taken into account, since it has been repeatedly required to determine how many weapons, how many ammunition, mine-explosive equipment, and, above all, at what prices the authorities to which the investigation was directed have sold to other countries, and how and why the funds obtained from the sale of these weapons, ammunition and equipment have been used. The difference in the number of weapons prepared by the Minister of State - but these are not my findings, these are the findings of the Moget Commission - and the review prepared by the Commission later remains unclear by this difference in the number of weapons committed, also because the then ministers of the Bajuk government have decided not to untie the silence of key witnesses who could clarify that part of the arms trade for which there is no document at the Ministry of Defence - and also others, of course - say that there is no document. By doing so, I do not think they have contributed to the Commission's final clarification of the sale of arms for cash. I am personally convinced, like my Group of Members, that it would not be good for the state of Slovenia if we did not completely clear these stories. The question is also why the Ministry of the Interior does not act with its authorities in the light of the extensive material that has been provided. It is 19 files of material from which the course of the arms trade can be reconstructed. Personally, contrary to my colleague, Jelinčič, I do not trust the Institute of Investigative Commissions anymore, because two of them were established, each time they did not come to the conclusion of their investigations. Therefore, I think it is right that, in accordance with the decision taken by the National Assembly, the existing Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission is engaged and that, as has been said before, the Government must, of course, cooperate with its ministries in clearing up these matters, which go back to our history, but are also important for our future.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u105	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u106	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Prime Minister! I am glad that you are with us and listen to these things, if not here, but of course on some microphone that we are telling you Members, at least because you will be a little more informed about what you have given us in this report. I know, Prime Minister, that you are not guilty of anything about the business that we are talking about here today, and that some Members are flying at you with arrows that have no legal basis to be able to tell you certain things. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will speak exclusively from the position of the Jerov Commission or from the activities which I am covering as a member of this committee, but not from what has happened in the past. We can quickly clear up two concepts: illegal arms trafficking must be used by law enforcement authorities. They were successful, as shown in the accompanying table. However, the legal trade in weapons led by the State of Slovenia must be transparent for the first time, meaning that what we have been trading with, how much has been done, and for the other time, to be able to determine how much we have earned or earned from it. Where is this money in the state budget? This is what we are talking about today, and I must say that if a transparent way of paying for arms trade were introduced, we would find answers to most of the questions raised here today. Therefore, since this is not the case, there is a reasonable suspicion that both VIS intelligence services as VOMOs had special funds whose documentation they had destroyed and thus raised the suspicion that the funds of these funds had been poured into private pockets. So, part of this money is in private pockets. It can be seen from the public that arms trafficking was operated by exclusively intelligence services, which is tragic for the security of the country, because the people involved are the easiest targets for foreign intelligence services, because we know that drug trafficking and arms trafficking are the most profitable business and therefore, especially under the scope of the investigation. Consider, respected colleagues and colleagues only theoretically, what it would mean for the country if, for example, a foreign intelligence service had the documentation to prove that the Minister himself, for example, made a commission for approved arms transport for the Republic of Croatia or BIH, for example, $37 million. Or that the director of the relevant service, who led this thing operationally, would receive, say, 600,000 German marks and both have such money, say, deposited abroad. We don't know where that money is. And this case already makes it clear that then such a service for people who have stopped here is a very bad trip for the country around this service, which also has things in place on the political scene. Look, let's say what other people's jobs can do, for example. Someone as a trader sells Slovenia for 1000 tons of stamps worth $10 million. Slovenia accepts, deposits and foreign jobs, or foreign countries that have ordered the merchants to sell it for 10,000 dollars, requires money from Slovenia, and it does not have that money. What's he gonna do? He will sell intelligence if he deals with Slovenia with any other matters other than weapons, and this intelligence, respected colleagues and colleagues, is worth the gold. And with this intelligence you can squeeze onto the country through different levers. And that is why it would be good if we all loved this country of Slovenia and if we have the spine to make this whole thing clear once and for all. It would be even worse if, for example, the leaders of these services were in the party and the party used this intelligence for client purposes. On the other hand, the party would in any way prevent the detection of an affair such as, say, a arms trade. Look at what the intelligence field means to find out about the records. The Honorary Consul of the Republic of Slovenia, who should be most concerned about our safety and intelligence coverage, is a foreign intelligence service and has given all the people a record of who was involved in a service. Do you know what this means for the country? But I don't judge him if he gave it in order to use it for political accounting. Worse, dear colleagues, is that this country has an honorary consul who has not provided only this information, but all the criminal matters for which people have been fairly punished. And someone came to my office to cry after his employer looked at him and he saw that he had been sentenced years ago to prison for stealing, to throw him out of work the next day. And no one can do anything. Even worse, for example, if someone gave things that were stored in a police safe, equipped with the highest level of confidentiality on the Internet, such as, like, Depala you or something like that, but only the part that he benefits from, the rest of the part that was in there was loaded with arms trade - but not that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The intelligence services of the Republic of Slovenia are always used for political accounts left and right and once would be the time to stop here. Be sure it's VIS, either for VOMA or for the Owl. There's always fewer of these problems. But to me not to love this thing again, I was silent as a mole, came out before the elections. I kind of taste like this whole thing wants to be used by a party and get points in the next election. In view of the above, it is essential that the State rejects the doubts raised by the arms trade due to its credibility and stability. In this respect, the unfair branch of power, not the executive branch, nor the legislative branch, were any good, none of them. I will base my debate on the following. None of the 16 complaints from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia against its employees, its services within which they were filed, had an epilogue or had not been successfully completed. Which means that such a service sucks, which has filed these criminal charges, or that the state authorities, this time the judicial or prosecutor's branch, have somehow been under pressure that this matter would not have come to an end. The government did not answer the nine Members of Parliament's questions; it was not only my colleague Jagodnik; it did not implement the two conclusions of the National Assembly which we imposed. This National Assembly is nothing to her as far as it's concerned. It's not this government, the government of the robbery case, but these are the governments behind the backs that have been -- so we're not. And look at the ignorance! What this National Assembly has done, we all sitting here have accepted and should consider on its committee, and I must say that this is a doctoral dissertation that we received today, against what you, Mr Defence Minister, have sent to us in the security intelligence services. Sitting behind you, the head of civil protection of the Republic of Slovenia, who is always together, is probably making some comments, because of this I have made, so I suppose that was the case and would warmly recommend to you in the future that we are not the ten brothers to have us, Members, for equal people who have our heads, and do not always insult us with such letters as the last letter you sent us. Why am I saying this? We asked about cash; in cash, something was found. There were letters that Jelinčič quoted, which we all saw, which we read before the head of the security services. We had a letter from the government telling us that there was a cash trade, even more, she said there were bills abroad. What you wrote to us, however, was about as much for me as if you were responding to mentally injured people. I use rough and ugly words. But as a Member, Minister, I voted for you, I highly appreciate you, 'you didn't write that, but I won't take it anymore. I can't stand it! And if the government admitted that the cash trade was that the amounts you had there, that you had all the people in that apparatus still who said and said that, and we, Members of Parliament, then you're answering it, it means whether the head of the Department of Defense's intelligence and security is not capable, or that this service is not capable, or that we're going to go to that game called the late Jože Pučnik - I say goodbye - "nothing". He's been looking for the man he's been looking for. Or the thief yells, hold the thief! That's about it. And intelligence services, not just yours, including VIS and others, should be spoken in this area for once. Tell the National Assembly at a closed session or at least on the committee where the Special Fund was, where it went, who spent it. Next stop will be accounts abroad. The other thing about investigative committees is that I'd say the following. The National Assembly is the establishment of two really investigative commissions. The first, led by a respected colleague, Zoran Madonna, had ceased to function. After rumors, when people came to me and told me why - this is unbelievable, I say, but people were telling me rumors, so it's not worth anything - they said they threatened to pour saltic acid on his children. Who was behind this? Are these foreign intelligence services, or who was behind it? The Calvary I've been experiencing, I'll never tell anyone again, but I'll never tell anyone. But this commission, including colleague Jerovšek, prepared an interim report, which was very critical. None of those who needed to take a closer look at this did respond much. We also had an endless report, but the report, from which the facts gathered there, showed that these things were. This matter, together with the report of the Jerov Commission and the Pukšič Commission, was given to the 55th extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly as a point. And I don't know who trades in such a way that neither the report of Jerov, nor the Commission of Pukšič, nor my report has been considered. And here, you see, I have deep doubts that crime is political. And these things should be cleared up once and there should be more Kanglers like them who have so many spines to get up here and demand what they're doing. It's not like he's messing with us under the rug. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that - if the President doesn't listen to me here - the president has a great professional team, from Mr. Bogotai, who knows all the things to all the three ministers who sit here in front of us. And I am sure that from now on they will work differently, that the Jerovšk Commission will be given the information requested by the National Assembly to investigate them, and that they will be treated here, and that we will once stop this practice, which colleague Bajuk has repeatedly pointed out - that nothing is said to be done. But maybe, Mr. Bajuk, it's also this game that he's holding onto each other for something. Excuse me! And we can never get to the end. I hope, dear colleagues and colleagues, that there is so much parliamentary pride in you. Each of you represents two million Slovenians; you, ministers, have a voice from us, we have chosen you. You have our trust and I ask you from this city to stop writing to us on the Jerovski Committee of such letters and not to communicate in this way with us as it has been before. If we solve this problem together, believe me, there will be many changes in Slovenia - not in the economic sense, but in the political field, and we should write down a new wind through the solution to these problems. But, colleagues, if we're not able to, if we're really not capable of these things, when someone tells you that the money was when we have black on white, then the nails kill that it wasn't, we can't solve it, and then I don't know what we're going to do in the next election, what we're going to tell our voters. What we're going to say is that if I use John Janš's words, we're always able to listen to how these little guys who carried two guns across the border, and we've been convicted, and how this big thing that we have in our hands is said by millions of marks or millions of dollars -- and it's impossible to explore because this national assembly and this political assembly, I apologize, this national assembly is incapable of bringing these things to an end. Thank you very much. I may have spoken a little emotionally, but it seems to me that what I've said has been lying on my soul all these years, because I am also burdened with some data that I will never tell or from the committee that I led has come out of anything to be used for political or newspaper purposes. However, if we want to put these things the way we should be, and if I want to go proudly from this national assembly as Members, you will have to tell us that with such letters that we have received here, but with some other information, we can say that we will be able to deliver the final judgment on these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u107	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you very much. In a way, what Rudy was saying is probably most of what we can say about this swamp in which we've been wandering all these years, from which various questions have been raised about arms trafficking and the alleged irregularities associated with it. I also take this debate as an opportunity to say, above all, that I do not care that it is not possible to clear this up and to say that if we do not clear this up, we are actually digging a pit that we will sooner or later fall into. Most of this information, which we hide from each other here and which we do not want to link into a coherent whole, unfortunately, is also shared by those who do not want to do well in Slovenia. In this part, in a way, I am surprised either by fear or by the unwillingness of the ministers in the government, and in particular by the presidents of the governments, some of them have been through these 10 years to put these things in place. Of course, it must be said that what was said here today was legitimate and that it was also politically correct. There is no doubt about it, it is due to the then government, and to the same extent, if not larger, it is also deserved by the then congregation, which kept all the acts made in such a way that in later judgment these steps were made in a legal way and in an appropriate manner. But, here, these discussions are mainly about the issue of abuse, which allegedly took place in the background of the necessary weapons operations in Slovenia. I will risk and say the necessary assistance to those two neighbouring countries that have experienced, I will say structurally the same, or worse fate of the former common army. There's no question about why, like, they've been buying Stingers and Smokes and so on. The question is, are there any accounts of how this happened? Nor is it a question of whether it has been made with cash or not, but how much cash has been provided in these deals and why this cash has been spent and whether it is possible that there is a difference between all of these tens of thousands of brands that we have already talked about many times. I want those who can clear this up to show such a calculation, and if this delta turns out to be ten thousand marks, then we'll all be calm and it turns out that maybe someone was needlessly worried or even paranoid. I'm afraid that's not the case. But, as it is said, at this point, it is enough to say that we will not rest with these questions and that these issues are, until we are clear with them, a powerful weapon in the hands of opponents of Slovenia. And if you want, within Slovenia in the hands of those who are not in favour of being secret services in the service of the State, but are becoming, I will say, in this sense of self-reliance, because they benefit some of their former ones, they can also benefit current bosses, and this dependence is of course mutual. I do not know what the National Assembly can do in addition to a debate and an investigative commission. I also do not know if President Robb, who is willing to set up different commissions, will go and examine all these materials and possibly give a different image of all these works. This is an option, and I hope that there will be no problem in the National Assembly at that time, that they will also give him a glimpse of the material that has accumulated here. At this point, I am joining those who are having problems with the conduct of the leadership of the High Council of State. It is true that it is necessary to ensure that they do not go public, but it is in some way unacceptable for me to make distinctions between different Members on the basis of any construction. Members must have, whether they are sitting at the seat of the President of the National Assembly, or of an individual commission of inquiry, or sitting right here in the bench, the possibility of handling these documents in the same way and having access to them. I myself have been in a situation like that of President Pahor, and I have rejected all the documents that I could not give to other Members to look into, because I thought I would have done the wrong thing if I had kept them to myself. Maybe that's why I didn't know any of the things, but I think it's essential from the point of view of the integrity of Members and of the National Assembly. There's still a lot to say. I've taken too little time, and that's why he's going to take a lot of breath in or out of this hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u109	I've explained some of my visions, and I don't want them anymore. I think I've worked hard enough. Now we have an opportunity to hear the debate from the applicant. If that is what the government wants, if any of the ministers present were to assess, then we would have concluded the debate without a decision, because that is not the point of the agenda. First of all, a colleague of Jelinčič's for the proposer. Then will one of the ministers answer again, or will we finish the point? Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A lot of things have been said today. However, if you had allowed, as you did not, that my debate would have lasted four hours as I wished, it would have been said even more. So we could only point the direction, where and what was happening in those days. And we didn't talk about the times when we got lonely and needed weapons for our independence. We talked about things that happened over and over. And that's what throws gray and black light on the Slovenian state. You must have been surprised by the statement made by Comrade Kangler when he said that the gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence had recently destroyed documentation in Paloma. That's right. This happened on Friday, December 12th this year. The registration number of the car that brought these materials and put them directly on the tape is SV-07-454. There's been a lot of other things going on, and it's happening. Just as it happened to the various Members that they were "rested" under the car to break in, so it happened to me that they tried to kick me off the road and it was easy to say, but yes, Jelinčič was drunk. But thank God I'm still alive. In time, they'd say if it worked out, they'd say he was drunk and "flies" off the road and killed himself. I'm sure it would have been someone by the way - a lot of people, I'm sure. And it's probably a hell of a pity for many people that this didn't work out, but it has to be continued through the guilty judge, and then it's Elinichič to be immersed in alcoholism. Those who have done this will never find out anyway, even though some know the names and surnames of these gentlemen. And they know the license plate number for that white golf. And today we have received from the office of the Prime Minister a scribble which is supposed to be a complementary response from the Prime Minister. And it says, "The government has done everything to investigate the arms trade." That's not true. Nothing was done. Everything was done to keep nothing from being discovered. The only thing that cheers me up is in the same paragraph the sentence which says 'in the interest of the government is that the competent authorities investigate and complete matters. And I hope, I'm sure it's in the interests of this government maybe not all governments, I'd say certainly not all governments, but I'm sure it's in the interests of the Prime Minister. And here we have our eyes peeled with such foolish escapades that no longer contain any sober judgment when it says here "a great increase in weapons seized in 2001 is due to the seizure of weapons in Luka Koper, where the Austrian citizen was seized 48 tons of weapons". Today, every child is already known to be involved in the weapons of the museum, in the collection of weapons that this Austrian now demands back and sues the Republic of Slovenia for locking him up, because they have alienated him, and also because he does not know where these weapons are. Shameful! And here: In 2002 they took 1,392 pieces of weapons. Go to the White Krajina, only after those gypsy villages will you get twice as many weapons. And if we look at that there must be about 70,000 pieces of illegal weapons in Slovenia, these numbers are ridiculous and sad. And this was put on paper by Mr. Prime Minister's support with the signature of Mr. Damian Lach. The kind of person who writes a paper like that, if I put a case like that in my emissary group, I'd lose my job. This gentleman is still where he is, in the office of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is likely to remain there. I don't know. But what's tragic? It is tragic that our bodies are working in this direction and in this way. And what's in it for you? This will result in what some of us are very afraid of. The fact is that Croatia has extremely rich documentation of this illegal arms trade, including video recordings, also hand over money - videos. The Bosnians have extremely rich documentation, and we must tell you that Serbs also have quite extensive archives on this matter. They certainly do not have this to help the Republic of Slovenia, but they certainly put it out of the way, because, in my opinion, I am sure, what policy they are pressing and blackmailing, perhaps because of the fact that Croats are allowed to take half of the Bay of Piran, perhaps because the issue of Slovenian Istria does not open, perhaps because the issue of the Radatoovici municipality, which Croatia has occupied and taken under its own country, may not open up to the issue of the Sri Lankan beatings that Croatia has carried out since the Second World War in Strasbourg and so on and so on. The question is full and until we have the answers to these questions, Slovenia will not be clean, and be aware that many in this Europe want to make Slovenia a whistleblower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u111	Does the Prime Minister want another word? No, no, no. Well, then I think only my colleague Jerovšek asked me and I will conclude the debate. Anyone else? No, no, no. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I have some experience investigating this arms trade because I would be a member of Moget's investigative commission in the previous term. However, I did so because Mr Marsič was twice on his own and, on behalf of the Group of Members, indicated that the first role of arms trade research would be played by the Supervisory Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence Services. I must point out that, as President, I cannot allow this and will not allow it because I would violate the law on intelligence services and the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. The Intelligence Supervisory Commission does not deal with this subject for arms trafficking but has a mandate to investigate possible violations and abuses of legality, misuse of intelligence services, such as through arms trafficking, for political purposes and so on. However, I am prepared to work on an investigative committee, and I think that any member of our parliamentary group, because we are very interested to see such illegal arms trafficking really clear up and complete. I know that this is difficult today because many people in important decision-making places are members of the elite and so on that it is difficult. Because I have to say that in my previous term as president, I was probably the only member of the investigative commission that I studied these files extensively because there was documentation, and everyone had to sign up when he went to read something. The only one, I don't think there were any others, even from government parties and so on. And that, besides the President, I have asked far more questions to those who have been questioned. I am surprised that no commission of inquiry has been established in this mandate. We in our parliamentary group expected those who had not finished their work to set up an investigative commission. Now, in this term, this time has passed my course. In the last year, it is no longer possible to run an investigative commission successfully. It is not even possible to adopt an evidence decision or a symbol of evidence. That's how I'm surprised, and our Group of Members, that this has not been done. In view of the fact that the previous commission of inquiry into weapons was also established in the middle of the mandate too late, because I believe that he was only a victim of political games, that in fact the investigation committee was pursuing political objectives, but not definitively closing the dossier on illegal arms trafficking. And I also reject that - colleague Marsich still has no experience - that there is no way to do it through the commission of inquiry. The Commissioner's commission is a fine proof of how successful it is against the police, and criminal services can be investigated by commissions, which also have public support. In the previous term, the Commissions of Inquiry were also successful. Everything worked well, and now that we see what is going on with these deleted ones, we can say that without a competent commission, Slovenia would probably be in the Hague court, on this tribunal. But the commission of the Vice-Holmec prevented it, investigated it, and also Pukšič's commission. In the future, I think if you want to move forward first, it will still be necessary to set up an investigative commission. Since the Commission of Inquiry has significantly greater legal powers than, for example, the Commission of Control, which is not and will not deal with this subject, from this point of view, to investigate arms trafficking. Only by-products are said to be misused by intelligence agencies. As a result, we must all be aware of how this chapter can be closed. Otherwise, these matters can also be dealt with in Parliament by the Internal Policy Committee when it comes to investigating criminal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u113	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u114	I would like to make only two proposals for reflection, given that it is not even possible to resolve these matters in such a debate. The first proposal would refer to ministries, in this case to defence, but also to the interior, to inform them that in Slovenia we have an archive of the Republic of Slovenia and a number of other provincial archives, which are happy to accept the material that the ministries no longer need and treat at the end, of course, as a kind of heritage. It's so disastrous if this is still happening that the archives of materials that should be obtained by law don't get. The second is the issue of clearance and responsibility for clearing up the arms trade that was long ago. All the instruments that we can normally use here are, in some ways, inappropriate. They are inappropriate because the people who held public office at the time are said to be responsible ministers, if we speak for defence, for internal affairs, for the border, because certain things were also at the borders, they are not the same. Neither are they in the same government and, from this point of view, it may be suggested that a group of independent experts be set up to provide insight into these materials and that they are trying to prepare a comprehensive report on this and answer the various questions that have been formulated or can be formulated in the context of a preparatory task. This would mean that if we were happy to put it together, we would also escape the long arms of these various services, which control both officials and many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u115	I conclude the debate on this item on the agenda. I'll ask the National Assembly first, do you want me to take a break or do you want me to continue? There's not a lot of decisions if you're patient. Shall we proceed? 32. Agenda item - Defence of amendments to the report on economic companies, undertakings or institutions, for which the first paragraph of paragraph 20 is applicable. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. They want qualified discussers to say, otherwise I will put to the decision a proposal for a decision, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Please check your voting devices so there will be no complications in further votes. I think we can make a decision. Please. We're voting. 48 present, 43 for and none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are at the 2nd item of the agenda - the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and the half of the strands of the law on fair procedure. On Tuesday, 16 this month, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. No amendments have been tabled [[compliance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure]] So we can move on to the decision-making of the law. We're making a decision. 47 present, 43 for and none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the point. At the 3rd item of the agenda, we have a third consideration of the draft law on labour and social courts. We also had this item on our agenda on Tuesday, 16th of this month. The amendments have not been tabled, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we can now decide. We're voting on the law. 53 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We are at the 4th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption. On Tuesday 16 of this month, the National Assembly held a second hearing. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the assembly, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, should therefore have a third reading of the law. No amendments have been tabled before the opening of the hearing, so we will only have a full debate on the bill. Do qualified proponents want a word? Please, Director.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u116	Mr President, the government has drawn up two harmonisation amendments, which are currently being reproduced in the National Assembly. I ask that this be taken into account before the vote on the law. Here's a copy if you want to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u117	Let's go in one order. He wants a government representative for the whole marriage, a word. He's a representative of the government. If I understand correctly, then the government has made two harmonisation amendments and must be addressed first by the law enforcement service. We need to get this position formally. And then we'll decide on that, I suggest we break this agenda right now and move on to five. Dotko - This is the third defence proposal for a law on the transfer of orders from certain government services to ministries On Tuesday 16.12. this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Amendments were not tabled in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 56 present, 36 for, one up. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The law has been adopted, the point is closed. The 6th point concerned the third reading concerning the proposal for a law promoting the development of tourism. Tuesday we have a second hearing, today we will have a third or we will decide on the law. We're voting. 55 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one's against it.]] Act adopted, point closed. We have item 7 of the agenda, the proposal for a law on insurance and financing of international economic affairs. We discussed this on Tuesday, and today we will be deciding on the law as part of the third hearing. Please, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a law on insurance and financing of international economic affairs. Point 7. 54 present, 46 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] The law is adopted and the point is closed. On the 8th item of the agenda, we will have a third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement. We've done Tuesday's second treatment, now we're going to do the third. We will vote on the law. I'm asking if they just want a moment. [[...]] Yes, we have the amendments. I'm sorry. We are going to discuss articles and amendments. Do you have you in front of you? This is a document bearing number 8 that came to the bench on 18.12., has 3 pages, has a list of amendments that are tabled by Articles 10, 11 and 13. Two amendments have been tabled by 10. One is submitted to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, including the other to both of those groups. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. Then we will decide on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups under order number 1 in your review to Article 10. Can we make a decision? Please, we're voting on this. 55 present, 22 to, 31 to. (For the vote was 22.)(against 31.) This did not receive the necessary support. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 2 of the two groups of Members to Article 10. We're voting. We have 56 present, 13 for and 41 for. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. With article 11, please, we have three amendments tabled. The SDS and NSIs shall submit these supplements. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to this Article, until article 11. You have it on page 2. We're voting. 56 in attendance, 14 in and 39 in. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 39.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We have four amendments. I told you before, we've got three. We've got four. We are now at the amendment under order number 2 by article 11. We're voting. 54 present, 15 for and 36 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 36.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We have an amendment under order number three. We're voting. Under order number 3. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 13 in and 40 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 40.]] He didn't get the support he needed. And the fourth amendment. You have it on the third page of the review to the 11th Article, the same groups of Members. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 13 in and 39 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] He didn't get the support he needed. One amendment is tabled to Article 13 of the SDS and Nova Slovenija Group. Can we make a decision? Please. We're voting. We're at the only amendment to Article 13. 55 in attendance, 13 in and 39 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] He didn't get the support he needed. Thus we have decided our decision on the amendments and move on to a legislative decision if the text is harmonised. I don't have any information it wouldn't be. We can make a full decision about the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. Peace, please. 57 present, 45 for and 7 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the law has been adopted and the point has been closed. We have the 13th item of the agenda, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act. In its second reading, the Assembly adopted amendments to Articles 4 and 5 of the amended proposal. We have two amendments for third reading. They are being submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Do you have these amendments in front of you? [[Yeah.]] Then we can decide. We've got them by 4th and 5th. First, about the amendment by 4. My friend Tsukati, explanation for the voice. [[...]] I'm sorry, the debate. It's a debate, mate Tuckyat. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, in terms of debate, not explanations of vote. Gentlemen! In the new article 52a - I regret to repeat some things because you were not so many at the previous hearing in the Chamber. Article 52a states in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of the dispute: "When the work of healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals is closely linked to the work of a doctor, the beginning of their working time shall be adjusted to the working time of a doctor." Next: "In out-of-patient activities intended for services to users, at least one fifth of the working time should take place after 16. It's uri." And for the third time, to shorten: "...the work can be arranged in shifts due to the greatest possible exploitation of premises and equipment. Allows this law to work in alterations." Further: "If work in such jobs lasts 12 hours or more a day, it may begin before 8 a.m.." Gentlemen, I'm talking about the article in the system law. Systemic basic, most important health law. If we set this schedule of work in such detail, of course, it will come to some good, it will do well, and elsewhere they will have problems with it. We know that out of nowhere, outpatients start at seven o'clock, people like seven o'clock, etc. However, if we are already coordinating the work of nurses and doctors with the system law, gentlemen, then I wonder whether the laboratory can work at night, at night or outside of the office. Isn't it normal for a job to be organized by a patient from the infirmary to the lab and one hour from now to the infirmary? I wonder if it should also be stipulated by law that the working time of the drill should be adjusted to the working time of the doctor and that only after the ambulance is closed will the power supply be able to go to clean. Yesterday we passed a law on pharmacy activity. We all understood him as a good marriage. Pharmacies are also on duty, and they also need to coordinate their work. When the pharmacy is open, the power plant can't work in the pharmacy. But we didn't write such nonsense in that marriage. We certainly don't think these things are part of the system law. This is the thing, at least as regards the sister's work, it's the matter of the head of the department or the head of the department, let's say the Director-General or the collective agreement, but not the system law. As a result, we leave it to others to regulate, since thousands of other things need to be reconciled, adjusted to or to the situation as it is. Therefore, we propose that these three articles, or these three paragraphs, be deleted and replaced by the following text: "The Minister responsible for health shall prescribe the public health ambulance by means of a sub-legislative provision". I think that makes sense. Let the Minister determine the opening time of the ambulance with some sub-legal act and the matter is resolved. Or a nurse must work with a doctor at the same time, but this is not even a minister and a submarital act. Therefore, we propose that these three paragraphs be deleted and replaced by what we have proposed. In fact, it is not that much of a substantive issue, but it is a great mess in this law, which is meaningless, which in fact causes only some senseless dispute in the field and coordination with the law and a request for the exemption of the legal provision and so on. And there's something else. It is a matter of respect for some legislative procedure, what is in the law and what is not. I'm surprised that the legal-law service hasn't taken this any more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u119	Before I give the Secretary of State a word, does anyone else want one of my colleagues? Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Dr. Cuckoo! In fact, it is not only in this law that we deal with such matters, other laws in this country deal with similar issues, for example. the Labour Relations Act. Probably other laws will come to your desks when it's decided, say, stores and so on. Simply, these issues should be regulated in this law and we simply had to regulate them in this law, because they are otherwise regulated as prescribed by the Labour Relations Act. And since we have already set up in the Medical Service Act and since it has also come from health organizations themselves, there has been a suggestion from health service providers that, similarly to other health workers and colleagues, we should arrange this in the Health Act, but we have also proposed here a completely identical dictatorship or almost entirely, except for this second paragraph, exactly the same as in the Medical Service Act. With regard to the proposed amendment, however, I would like to point out that the proposed amendment relates, for the first time, only to the infirmary. We in health care have many other jobs, not just outpatients. Many other areas where patients are in contact with health care providers, and all these parts have to be covered and our article here summarizes them. It's the other thing. There's not much important opening time in health care. What's important is the office time. So that this proposed amendment definitely does not replace the good enough text proposed by the Government in these three paragraphs and therefore the Government cannot support such an amendment and we propose that the Members do not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u121	Anyone else? Let me remind you, we're at the 4th. We have tabled amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act. Can we make a decision? I think so. Please. Attention! The National Assembly will, of course, decide on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting. 54 in attendance, 10 in and 38 in. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And we are also deciding on the amendment of the same parliamentary group, the SDS, to Article 5 and here too my colleague Tsukati wants a word before that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Article 5 discusses on-call service and not what on-call service is, that it is a presence in the workplace to be on-call. This is arranged elsewhere in other articles, in other laws. But it's about trying to somehow insert the key, how to pay or value the duty. Surely, on call in traumatology is something other than on call at a dermatological clinic and so on, where a nurse or a doctor can actually rest in the meantime. But we believe that this is not a matter of law, that it is also a matter of another document, a collective agreement and so on. I also do not know if the key to accounting for a part of an activity should already be laid down in this law, then, of course, we should also set the key to accounting for another part, not just on duty. Also the key to accounting for readiness, active work, field work, night work and the like. But it would be even more stupid, because it really doesn't belong, I stress, to the system law. For this reason, we propose to return to the previous dictatorship. I think that the excuse that these things are also laid down by the Labour Relations Act is not true. Like the previous amendment, which was intended to reject or replace a meaningless text. I must say that there are no such pointless matters in the Labour Relations Act. They're in the medical service bill, but if we've done something stupid there, we don't have to do it again here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u123	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u124	Can I keep going?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u125	Of course, you're the only one who can. Please, everyone else for attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u126	Well, I have no doubt that the coalition gentlemen, the government coalition, will also reject this amendment. Only this will be another new trophy of yours on the criticality and functioning of the National Assembly, which critically assesses government proposals, legislative proposals and carries out its legislative function. I think we're going to have another trophy of this kind of work again, which, of course, is not an honor to this national assembly, and I certainly don't know whether you know it or not, and it's not an honor for the customers sitting in here, and they're supposed to be doing their legislative function.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you. I need to get back to the previous arguments. On duty as a special form of work, as a special working condition, has been defined in the law. It was defined in the Labour Relations Act, which was in force until last year. Since the new Labour Relations Act has omitted the definition of on-call duty and since we definitely have these on-calls in health care, even the public sector has them, it was necessary, at least in our area where the quantity of this work is essentially the largest on-call work, to redefine this definition in law. First in the Medical Service Act and now in the Health Act for all other health workers and coworkers who are not covered by the Medical Services Act. As far as you're concerned, Dr. Tsukati, on duty in Tramatology and other departments that are different. This talk of ours clearly does not speak of what is on call in traumatology or other departments. It is only generally defined on-calling as such, such a working condition under which we have effective work, and the work when someone is ready at work, but currently does not provide health services. How much of this work is there? Either that part is a majority or a minority, then it is defined by other sub-laws. And it's also written here further to evaluate this by a collective agreement. And let me say this: similar arrangements are also available in other countries of the European Union. We are not, as far as this is concerned, unique, and in a very similar way they are solving these issues. We have explained to this law even the state in question, and also in the explanation there have been states and examples of amendments when we amended this article in the second reading. We think the government doesn't think that this amendment is appropriate, and it suggests that it be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u129	Good. Can we move on to a decision? Okay. We are voting on the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 5 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act. 57 present, 12 for and 40 for. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We can now conclude the debate on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am not informed that marriage would be inconsistent, so we can make a full decision on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. 56 present, 44 for and one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This agenda item has been completed. We've only got one piece of the agenda left. I believe that all of you have before you the coordinating amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent by the Government. We are on the 4th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption. On the agenda, we have two harmonisation amendments, paragraphs 47 and 48, and we have to vote separately. Can we make a decision? No, no, no. Please, buddy Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u130	I'm sorry, but I'm really interested. It says here that the amendment means compliance with the amendments adopted to Articles 31 and 41. And when I look at these two articles, I don't see any connection, or I really don't understand it, because Article 41 speaks of an integrity plan, if I'm not mistaken. The second article, mentioned here, 31st, says - just a moment! - about something else. However, the text in the fourth indent of the "statement of certificates issued" in the preceding indent shall be deleted from the text referred to in the first paragraph of Article 42 and the last indent of the "location and holding" referred to in Article 31. So I would really like an explanation of what the connection is here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u131	Explanatory note, Mr. Director, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. It is only a matter of harmonisation, namely paragraphs 31 and 41, amended by the amendments to the second reading. However, in the record or in the data and documentation chapter, those records which, on the basis of the amendments to Articles 31 and 41, become irrelevant or such records will not be able to be kept at all, since those provisions of the law to which these records refer are no longer in the law, that is all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-19-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u133	Is that understood, Comrade Wolf? Good. We are going to vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 47 of the law. Please, we're voting. The harmonisation amendment to Article 47. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 57, 47 in attendance for, no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one's against it.]] The harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Is there any question about the amendment to Article 48? No, no, no. Can we make a decision? Good. We're voting. There's 55, 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one's against it.]] And now we have just one final decision to make in the autumn part of the National Assembly, and this is a full vote. It is a proposal for a law to prevent conflicts of interest and to limit corruption. We're voting. There are 58, 49 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The law has been passed. Before we break up, dear colleagues and colleagues, before I conclude the meeting, let me remind you that we will see you back here in this hall again Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. when we meet at the festive session. Today we have concluded a regular December session, including the autumn session. If you had so much time and so much will, we'd stop in the lobby for a second, drink juice, and then meet again Tuesday at 7:00.
