ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning. To all those who will join us in the 28th meeting of the National Assembly! All those of you in the lobby, I invite you to come to the hall. We'll continue the work we've done on Friday. First of all, I will inform you of some of the colleagues and colleagues who are unable to attend today because of their other obligations to continue the meeting. These are colleagues Sonja Areh Lavrič, colleagues Gračner, Grošelj, after 16:00 will not be with us a colleague of Horvat, after 12 hours a colleague of Peterlet, or colleagues of Levič, Majnik, Štemberger and Vukko will be missing. We're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE AVENTINATION OF THE WORD 12. For the purposes of this Member of the Public Order Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the text of Article 110 of the Public Procurement Act was submitted to the Council for consideration. The President of the Council of State, Mr Sušnik, was invited to the meeting and I do not see him here. Is Mr. Zoltan Jan here? Maybe in the lobby, the National Assembly starts exactly and maybe colleague Jan's account on a 15-minute academic break at the beginning, that's not it. I'll wait a little while and then I'll go on. So if there is no one from the State Council to further explain the proposal, then we will continue. There are no Ministry representatives here either. We're going to have a debate. We will first hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bozič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please, my friend Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the decision of the Finance Committee on the authentic interpretation of Article 110 of the Public Procurement Act. Indeed, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and in the opinion of the Government, and also in the opinion of the Committee, it has been concluded that such an authentic interpretation is unnecessary, in particular because there is a new law on public procurement in the procedure and what is necessary, we will be able to address it there. We will also vote in accordance with this decision of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. This was the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and his colleague Vizjak will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. My friend Peca first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u4	Your Honors are here! In the introduction, I must express my regret that at the beginning of today's session, according to our assessment, fairly important agenda items are not present and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not present. We further note that both the legislative and legal services and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have expressed a negative position before the interpretation of Article 12 paragraph 110. According to our assessment, the argument of the legislative and legal service as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is inappropriate. In its reasoning against the interpretation, the legal and legal service mainly refers to the fact that the mandatory interpretation of the legal provision would change or even interfere with the concept of the law. We do not agree with this, because the fact is that, at the time of the adoption of the aforementioned basic public procurement law of 1999, the amendment which spoke of such a wish was adopted in the second reading, thus allowing disabled companies to operate in a form that would, on the one hand, allow for their enlargement and, on the other hand, the safety of their people, i.e. disabled persons. As an argument against the protection of disabled persons and the protection of disabled enterprises, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia states that this would destroy the competitiveness of these companies. According to our assessment, it is impossible to talk about competition between tenderers or competition between undertakings carrying out different activities for two reasons. The first is that there is a small number of disabled companies in Slovenia and that these companies are already obtaining adequate or less adequate protection by the State or the company and that it is an indication that the authentic interpretation of Article 12, paragraph 110, would result in non-competitiveness or in breach of the law to prevent restrictions on competition, makes no sense. In the Slovenian National Party, we took into account, in particular, the wishes of the legislator, i.e. the national assembly, at the time when the law was adopted, as an argument for use or for a decision in favour of a mandatory interpretation. According to our assessment, therefore, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, we believe that the year I mentioned earlier in 1999, when the law on public procurement was extended, this chapter meant that many disabled companies could survive at that time. In the Slovenian National Party, we still defend the position that for certain companies that are more difficult to adapt to the environment or that are harder to establish their normal business relationship, it is necessary to help in all ways. Given that this area, the area of public procurement in the mandatory interpretation does not take over, I stress once again, does not occupy an excessively large area and touches exclusively disabled companies, in the Slovenian National Party we will support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 12(110) of the Public Procurement Act and thus try to achieve that we will primarily protect people who are employed in disabled companies, and these are disabled. We sincerely hope that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will find so much wisdom and so much social sense that it will give its vote to support this mandatory interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u5	Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, followed by counterpart Črnugelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm sorry, but I can't say hello to either the proposer or the government, even though I'd like to. The basic purpose of this adoption of authentic interpretations is also followed by a basic one, and this is, in general, followed by the interests of the Social Democratic Party in general, in particular by helping to increase the employability of people with disabilities and at the same time the employment and employability of people, making it more difficult for the unemployed to cope with this growing problem year after year, and unfortunately the government has not yet seriously tackled this increasingly pressing problem. On the other hand, it must be pointed out that any proposal and any legalisation or formalisation of such a purpose that is to be pursued is, for the first time, a formally correct path, but also in such a way that, of course, a solution does not eat up competition and, of course, it is in accordance with the directives of the European Community and, finally, the possibility of abuse is prevented. I personally believe that the intention of the proposer of this authentic explanation was positive, well-intentioned and, of course, worth all the support. However, both the legislative and legal services and, of course, the Committee on Finance itself, on the basis of various formal legal reservations, have proposed that such an authentic interpretation should not be accepted and that the government also includes this solution in the proposal or amendment to the Public Procurement Act. I think that it is possible for disabled companies, of course when it comes to the activity of training and employment of persons with disabilities, to carry out a contract without the publication of a public tender with a direct contract based, of course, on the excessive price and quality of the object for collecting more offers and cost analysis, a step towards putting disabled companies in a more favourable position, at least as regards the procedure. However, such a provision should not affect that these companies, in relation to the rest of the companies, are placed in a privileged position concerning price and quality. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we will support options and solutions that will, of course, enable disabled companies to gain, at the same quality and competitive price, a business in front of other companies operating in this area of production, and thus, of course, contribute to some greater attractiveness of these companies and, lastly, contribute to the greater employment of the disabled and thus to the resolution of the part of the unemployed who are now in the structure of the unemployed one of the most pressing categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Colleague Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and a colleague of Kavčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! In 1997, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on the ratification of the European Association Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Communities. On this basis, a new law on public procurement was adopted in 2000 to simplify procurement procedures and to fully align the field of public procurement with the rules of the European Community. Thus, the applicable Public Procurement Act has combined one law and rules of all seven Directives, resulting in an individual derogation from the Public Procurement Act, the rules laid down in the individual Directives. In its June 2001 opinion, the European Commission also identified an incomplete degree of compliance with Council Directives. The Public Procurement Act has not met all expectations, both for the professional public and for contracting authorities, tenderers and competent institutions. However, it should only be pointed out that despite the relative non-compliance with the European acquis governing public procurement at the principal level, the law on public procurement is non-discriminatory in relation to the possibility of the participation of providers from abroad. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have made a special effort to regulate the special status of public procurement without issuing an invitation to tender up to a certain amount for disabled companies. These companies are concerned with the training and employment function of those who are at risk and more difficult to employ in the labour market and are thus very poorly flexible. That is why we thought it was of the utmost importance in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to incorporate into the law the possibility of facilitating the procurement of these companies, without jeopardising the compliance of our regulations with European law, and to maintain the non-discriminatoryness of suppliers and the transparency of public procurement. The new European public procurement legislation introduces environmental and social aspects in which the regulation of disabled companies can also be included. The new European guidelines to be adopted in 2004 also provide Member States with the right to participate in the procurement procedures for disabled companies or to award contracts for such undertakings in the context of the issue of employment programmes, which we, for example, follow very well. The arrangement applies to the award of public contracts for disabled companies under the procedure for the purchase of goods and the provision of services. Disability companies must, first of all, meet the condition of participation prior to the conclusion of business with a disabled company, and the price and quality must be verified by selecting offers or checking the market situation. Thus, the contracting authority may award a contract without prior publication of the invitation to tender in the following cases: for services and goods of disabled companies, where the activity of training and employment of disabled persons is subject to special conditions and for which the Public Procurement Office has given an opinion. The contracting authority may, for a direct contract, award a contract under this point only if the tenderer fulfils Article 41 of the Law and checks the price, of course also the quality of the item, by collecting these tenders and by analysing the costs and comparing the quality of services or items. The contracting authority shall carry out the verification by type and subject matter of the order, which it shall demonstrate in its added documentation. That provision, in our view, constitutes a positive shift from the general principle of equality by introducing a preferential position for providers of the status of a disabled company, provided for in Article 569 of the Company Act. A limited liability company, a limited shareholding company, a limited shareholding company which, during the whole business year, trains and employs at least 40% of the disabled of all employees in the company, operates as a disabled company if it obtains prior consent from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, let me finish. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the addition of the law and everything else, including this, regardless of the regulation of the situation of disabled companies, and understand that in these cases, the implementation of services or the delivery of goods will take place mainly with regard to the achievement of objectives, training, employment of persons with disabilities, as well as the more difficult employment in the labour market, which is highlighted in particular by a number of analyses and is also pointed out by many disabled societies throughout Slovenia. We will therefore welcome any efforts made by those working in this area to maximize the employment of persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. My colleague Kavčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and then I will give the floor to my colleague mag. To present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group. My friend Kavčič first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we are aware of the importance of disabled companies and of the specificities of these companies. We are of the opinion that the State must provide certain advantages and benefits to these undertakings through the legislative framework, but these advantages and benefits, due to the consistency of the legal system, must be proportionate to the rights of other economic operators or should not be unduly prejudiced to the rights of other economic operators. The proposed authentic interpretation of Article 110 of the Public Procurement Act would, in our view, constitute an excessive scope of the rights of other economic operators and would also constitute a risk of violating the principles of fair competition between tenderers and the principles of equal treatment for tenderers in the field of public procurement. In this context, I should like to point out that the part of the Government's opinion that points out that Article 110 of the Public Procurement Act is contrary to the European Union's legal order and that the full implementation of the European Union's acquis in the field of public procurement is also one of the conditions for drawing funds from various European funds. Because of what is said in the LDS Club, we support the decision of the parent working body and will not support the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 110 of the Public Procurement Act. This authentic explanation does not need to be supported and therefore we will not support it for another fact. This is because, in the legislative procedure, there is already a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, which, in the fourth paragraph of the new Article 20, regulates in an appropriate way the benefit of disabled companies in the field of public procurement. This provision also allows the contracting authority to award a public service contract under a negotiated procedure without prior publication where the provider has the status of a disabled undertaking and the value of the contract does not exceed the value from which the invitation to tender in the Official Gazette of the European Community is to be published. In the LDS, we believe that this solution is appropriate in this new law and at the same time in line with the European Union's legal order, so we will consistently support it in the next legislative procedure in the hope that the amendment of the law will be adopted as soon as possible despite the complexity of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Drobnic will explain the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. This will close the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and move on to the debate of the Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u12	Nice greetings to all present! Allow me to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the authentic interpretation of the text of the law on public procurement. We will support the proposal of an authentic interpretation mainly from a substantive point of view. Why? Because disability companies are like this when we look at genetics, companies or companies that were subject to a special regime. The regulation of these companies is still in force under the old 76 law, according to which they are non-economic companies, but according to the old system the activity of special social importance. If we were to draw this genetics, then it would be considered that these are public economic services for the purpose of employment. It is true that in the ownership process they decided to go along with the rest of the companies in the ownership process, but this does not mean that they have lost their previous meaning. It is precisely in this respect that disabled companies receive certain reliefs, significantly facilitated in order to be able to maintain themselves on the market. They are exempt from contributions, certain taxes, either for their own development or for equipment and the like. The problem was something else. Because this National Assembly has not yet adopted a law on training for the employment of persons with disabilities or, if you wish, the proposal tabled by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group in the adoption process, the law on the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities. You rejected this without serious arguments at the time. In the law, this law, proposed by Nova Slovenije, we have introduced two types of disabled companies. Those who operate under market principles and are regulated by the company law with a view to earning profits, but are entitled to benefits, and other types of companies that are established not because of profits, but because of the professional rehabilitation and employment of the more severely affected persons. If we accepted that, we would also have a solution for this case in which you are now involved. Since one type of company could be excluded from public tenders and could acquire a business without compromising market competition without being sought. So, one would be in the general European term "non for profit" and the other "for profit", making these solutions would offer a solution. The situation can be resolved by an authentic explanation, thus ensuring that disabled companies continue to exist and operate in which more than 10,000 people are employed, most of whom are disabled, more difficult to find employment in the labour market. This would be inappropriate work that would put most companies at risk. However, if one of such companies has already been established in a disputed manner, it wishes to obtain a business, in accordance with the law, to carry out surveillance services, inspection services or labour inspectorates or the Ministry of Labour, in accordance with its commission responsible for monitoring the operations of disabled companies in the Republic of Slovenia. So in the New Slovenia Group we will support this authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. With your debate, we have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We have two motions for discussion. Comrade Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u14	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! There was much to be said about the content of this explanation, so only two things I would say about the formal procedure. I quote from the acrobatics of the legal language that both our legislative and legal service and to some extent the government has also accepted the possibility that this proposal could be implemented if certain business and other requirements were met. The government and we, too, still have a lot to do in the field of supply and protection of people with disabilities, and I think it would be good if we did this sooner or later. While the government is saying that the public procurement law will be amended, I hope it will be, but for now it is still a sparrow on the roof. Until then, I think it is appropriate to say that we support this explanation, and so will I vote. On the other hand, it is also necessary to take into account what was said at the meeting of the Committee by the President of the Disabled Organisations and Enterprises, or in particular the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia, which claims to explain to the government what is possible and what is not quite correct. On the other hand, he also mentioned that the government did not explain that a new directive is being prepared in the European Union, which will enter into force at the beginning of the following year. Well, it would be interesting to know what's on it. At this time, I think we must do something, and I will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Bernick. My friend Patch, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u16	Personally, I am very sorry that we are Members of the Slovenian National Party, with rare exceptions, alone, concerning the issue of disabled people in our society, with the issue of employment of disabled people, but of course, this is a political decision. According to an assessment by the Slovenian National Party, persons with disabilities, of course, represent an increasing share in the structure of the unemployed, especially when it comes to the fact that they are more difficult to employ and that there should be another argument, according to our assessment, why they should approach the mentioned agenda item. On the other hand, it is true that, according to our assessment, as one of the institutions in charge of macroeconomic policy, the country should take a more active approach to the balance of employment, i.e. in the staff structure. Also, the argument used by some parliamentary groups to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union within this very sensitive topic is irrelevant to our assessment. The fact is that the structure or quality of being disabled in certain European countries to which you refer and in Slovenia is very different, so these two categories or geographical categories cannot be equated in this case. According to the Slovenian National Parties, there are certain categories that the State should support, and one of them is disabled in every way. Not to serve them, but the country and Slovenian politics should do their utmost to make their lives easier and better within our society. We will support the matter in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u17	A colleague of mags. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u18	From what has been said, it is clear that we have come up with a particular problem, the legal problem of regulating public procurement for disabled companies, because disabled companies are not properly regulated. On the one hand, they are based, as I have already said, on this legal basis from 1976, as disability workshops of special social importance, public service. With new legislation, you don't want to, because of some narrow interests, they've gone on the road to ordinary businesses. In Europe, the path was slightly different by working on the market, but they are eligible for relief and special treatment in public procurement. If they were settled in our country in time, we would avoid some problems in terms of competition in public procurement, what has occurred in Slovenia, which is controversial and would settle the matter. However, in order to prevent two or three cases of conflict in Slovenia, there is no need to release the Rafal to everyone. One case to destroy all companies. Disable a suitable approach to work. A suitable approach to obtaining business. We therefore believe that it would be quite right from the substantive point of view to accept this authentic interpretation. Of course, there is still the question that this doctrine, by marriage, should be expanded with this authentic explanation. As we say, from a substantive point of view, it's correct, it's reasonable, it's logical. However, the complication was caused by the inaction of the government and the inappropriate attitude, the inappropriate attitude towards the proposed law on the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities submitted by the New Slovenia Group, and it was rejected by the coalition. That's when they said there'd be a proposal in one month. It's been seven months now, and there's still no proposal. He won't be here next month. That's how you do it in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. This concludes the discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation. I will now put to the debate a proposal for a decision by the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the text of point 110 of Article 12 of the Public Procurement Act shall not be adopted. Would any of those who have time have a word? You don't have time. He's a friend of mine. Who else? We'll finish this agenda first. Would any of those who have time at their disposal want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Who else wants it? My friend Peca is one of them. Anyone other than those who reported in the sissy? I mean, anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Hey, buddy. You've got five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u20	In addition to everything that is said in the Slovenian National Party, we say or are convinced that the National Assembly and the Slovenian policy on disability issues do not wish to identify or have been negatively identified at the beginning of the mandate, by giving a travel guide to the substantive resolution of this issue when the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Slovenian National Party, rejected the proposal to have a special working body for the employment of persons with disabilities, their stay. According to our assessment of this action, or regrettably with that act, those in the vast majority who rejected the proposal showed where you estimate that the disabled belong. However, as regards the proposal of the parent working body, we must also present our disagreement, as we assess and quote, on page 3, the report of the parent working body, "after final consideration, the Committee adopted a decision on the basis of this Rule of Procedure stating that the authentic interpretations of the text of Article 12 of the Public Procurement Act do not need to be adopted". Therefore, according to our assessment, the "necessary acceptance" of the dictatorship cannot be interpreted in the way it is later stressed that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has proposed to the National Assembly that the law or compulsory interpretation of the law on public procurement should not be adopted. According to our assessment of the performance in this area, for the first time, the debate has expressed an unnecessary need for adoption and no significant difference is made. The committee should also be more specific in its design and application, or today's non-application, but only in the formulation of its views, and remain in the dictatorship that it is not necessary to accept. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we estimate that it would make sense to adopt a mandatory interpretation and that the National Assembly should reconsider the content of the point of the socially disadvantaged category of persons with disabilities. We estimate that in the mandate ahead of us, so in a good year, the National Assembly could correct the error mainly by setting up a committee at the moment or in the shortest possible time which would be the only and the only basic point through which disabled people in our society would be able to breathe more easily, but in sayings, they also dictate the wishes or aspirations of various disability organisations this year after the holding of individual referendums. I am convinced that Slovenian politics and this National Assembly should find more wisdom and responsibility, as regards the issue of disabled people and approach closer and thus ensure their lives more sustainable and, of course, better quality within our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u21	The home working body has adopted a decision not to adopt an authentic interpretation and this decision also proposes to the national assembly, second paragraph of Article 150. Mr Peca says that the competent working body first deals with the issue of whether an authentic explanation is necessary and, if it considers that this is the case, the proposal for a text of the authentic interpretation is also addressed. Since it had decided to propose to the National Assembly a decision not to adopt it, it had not addressed this text either. Anyone else wants a word, or I'll close the debate now. On the proposal for a decision of the parent committee not to adopt a proposal for the adoption of that authentic interpretation, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, at 7 p.m. and 55 minutes tonight. This concludes the 12th item of the agenda for tonight. At 10.55, the National Assembly will move on to the 13th item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the sales programme of State and real estate for 2003 and 2004. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. We will also give her the floor, then to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Group of Members, Members and Members of Parliament. By 10.55, I'm putting an end to the chorus.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u22	We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - DETAILED PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF THE STATE FINANCIAL AND REAL BUILDINGS FOR 2003 AND 2004. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask whether the Secretary-General or anyone else would like to present an additional report? He does. Please, Minister-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj has the floor for a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a decision on additions and amendments to the decision on the sale of state property. This is a regulation based on the Public Finance Act. After this amendment to last year's law, the National Assembly is the one who adopts this act. Although the act is in some way a sui generis is also a higher-a-vis of other documents adopted by the National Assembly, it nevertheless takes a serious approach to the preparation of these acts, and, of course, we have some dilemmas and difficulties in the preparation of such documents, particularly because they include, as a matter of fact, daily decisions on the management of individual movable and immovable property. As you can see, most of the content of these changes is actually about selling old cars. There is also some real estate and, of course, also the sale of financial assets or shares held by the State in individual companies. This act, which is before you, serves the government only to initiate the sale process. The prices or figures indicated as possible in the decree are also indicative and serve only as a basis for public auctions, and before only the execution of a public auction under the rules applicable to the sale of assets, we have to re-evaluate the sworn bidders and then the price is the starting point for auctions. Of course, we are trying to reach as high a price as possible at the auction and, of course, even if the offer is not real, there is no conclusion of the contract. In short, this is the content of this decree and I ask you or the Government to adopt this proposal for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister General, Mr. Bandelj. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Finance. The Chairman of the Committee, Comrade Pucko, will present the report of the Committee. Then we'll go to the positions of the Group of Members. Comrade Pucko, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of a written request from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee considered that motion for a decree to be a parent working body in order to be able to adopt this decree at a July meeting. In the context of the general debate, we paid the highest attention to the Government's re-imposed proposal for the disposal of the Villa Bled facility and to certain proposals for the sale of the State's assets or capital shares in individual, in particular subsidiaries, mainly in terms of the purpose of their sale, and to the issue of social security for employees in these companies. In the Committee’s debate, the comments expressed on some of the shortcomings of the present act also expressed the view that it was obvious that the National Assembly did not impose sufficient clarity on the Government to submit a comprehensive dossier or on the form and manner in which such documents were submitted for individual acts of sale of State property. It was also pointed out that uniform rules should be laid down for the sale of shares in companies where the government is a direct or indirect owner, since otherwise too much room for manoeuvre allows rules to be played. After discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment of the editorial nature in the light of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is part of the report or of the amended decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the sales programme for the years 2003 and 2004 for which I propose that it be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you, chairman of the board, colleague Pucko. They will now present the views of the Group. First, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, colleague Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we will support this decree. I would like to say a few words about this decision, in view of the decision we have adopted on the Committee, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should forward to the National Assembly, by autumn, a proposal for a law on the sale of state property for consideration. In fact, that's the kind of marriage we really need. Anyone who has taken seriously the proposed decision in Rapporteur 49 can really imagine and would say that it is right to have such a law. Why? On page 41, let's say we're talking about selling a piece of land at 8 square meters in Tolmin. I find it difficult to believe that such a sale must be confirmed by the National Assembly. I can, and I think it would be right, I would have handled the complaint about the sale, not that it approves of it. And I think that in the bill of law these little things will be resolved so that we don't deal with them, because if big things can be sold without decrees, then there is no need for such small things to be dealt with in the National Assembly. We also have observations about the sale of Soča VGP in Nova Gorica, not because they would be against selling the share of shares that the government has in this company, but because we are not aware of how it will perform its public function in advance. The same applies to the winding-up company. Because these two companies have performed their public function so far. And I fear that in any major accident we will have only firefighters at our disposal, but not companies that have always been prepared and able to come to solve the problems that have arisen after natural disasters. And in the end, all I would say is this: on the board and even before that, months ago, we also talked a lot about Villa Bled and about the property in Volčí Potok, which is being sold. We accepted all of this at the last meeting of the Committee with understanding. The country has to sell what it doesn't need. But it would be nice and right for us to once have a program or a proposal of what the state needs to have in order to have more, and that we will not discuss why something is being sold every time. Because I think that after thirteen years we could already write what the property of the state should be, the property of the government we need for the normal functioning of the country. And, as we say at the outset, the Group of Members will support the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Pohorec will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and a colleague of Pec from the Slovenian National Party. My friend Pohorec first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Since it's a habit to present our views here, I've come here for these short three, four minutes. Our Group of Members has looked at this list in detail, and of course it agrees that this state property is being sold and we are in favour of adopting an appropriate decision. This first part consists of shares in companies whose ownership is partial or complete and does not show any interest, nor of the need to continue to be a co-owner or owner here, and it is right that such shares are also reselling. These are: Soča Nova Gorica, Puh, Fortuna, Gratek, Kamnolom, PIL, Toplarna and TDR Metallurgy Ruše. We agree here to resolve this too. In order, after all, to have fewer moral obligations towards these companies, which do not operate in a manner that is exemplary for the economy here and there. In the second part, we are even more comfortable with some things, and also with the already stated comment that we have to - unfortunately, today's arrangement - decide also to sell the already written-off basics, various printers, computers and other equipment, fall 10 years and more of the old cars, which, of course, we agree to be sold, and also to settle this a little more flexibly with the relevant law in the future. We also received more detailed attention from Villa Bled. Since we had already discussed this, I think that in last year at about this time, and at that time we held the decision, we also agreed to check whether the Villa Bled sold or not or to have it for our protocol purposes in the future. However, since Vila Bled also has a very long-term contract when the contract was still in force, it was extended for about 14 years, the last day of the government, the previous one, for even the same period of time, so that it is still on lease for thirty years and it will be very difficult to find any other buyer because they are probably certain obligations under this contract. We also agree today with the sale of Vila Bled that this facility, which unfortunately fails at such a beautiful location and will only lose further value for the country if we do not sell it today. We also agree with the annex, or amendment, that has been tabled, to the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the following: not only is there one of the guards who is still for sale, but there are some who are alone who are failing at our borders. These are former guards, rifles, and despite repeated calls, no buyer can be found. Similarly, with some military housing in these smaller places, which also lose their value, they fail and would indicate that they are listed and sold as soon as possible, or how to find a solution with local communities before their final collapse, because, after all, every tolar we look for on other sources is important here too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, followed by a colleague Vizjak, who is also in the Chamber. Please, Comrade Peca, you have the floor. The others don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u31	Dearly beloved, hello again! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, this time Slovenia obviously reached a stage when it started selling its own assets. What is this phase in the case of natural or legal persons, you probably all know. That means we're in a phase where there's no longer a path to normal development. The government representative and representatives of government political organisations in particular will talk about the meaning of not selling the property, and we will never lose it and its value. However, if you allow it within the time available, we will give some views of disagreement and regrettably no position of agreement. The sales programme for the period 2003/2004 is estimated by the Slovenian National Party to demonstrate the short-term nature of the sales system and, unfortunately, the incapacity of the Slovenian Government. Within less than a month, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave the National Assembly two decrees, two different decrees, indicating behaviour or indicating the fact that the government replaces within one month certain assets it intends to sell. From the practice so far and, above all, from case 16.5.2003 and 2.6.2003, when the decree was passed in the National Assembly for consideration, it is possible to conclude that the sales programme will continue to be met and complemented in this year. It is also our view that the timing or pace of adoption of the proposed decree, which bears the year 2003 and 2004 in its title, makes no sense. According to our assessment or assumption, it follows from the behaviour that, of course, the sales system itself is independent of the National Assembly at this time, because the fact is that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this period has already been adopted and that it will not make any sense, if the national assembly would also adopt this system of sales or sales method. There will be no difference in general. Furthermore, the criticism of the sales system itself. If we look at the individual categories proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for sale, i.e. from transport assets, real estates, both land and construction buildings, to capital shares, we estimate that despite individual category low values, the government of the Republic of Slovenia is poorly justified and suggests that the government of the Republic of Slovenia manages Slovenian assets as well as, unfortunately, very poor management. The method of sale itself, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has in practice enforced and in this act is also legal for this period, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, is weak, and it is not particularly long-term that it does not constitute uniform rules for sale. We have sought this in the Slovenian National Party and, of course, in the future, we will have uniform criteria, criteria that would apply to individual types of sales facilities and, on the other hand, to individual customers, not to individual cases or individual cases being separated by the way they are sold. According to our assessment, the sale without rules, which we are witnessing today, for the first time and in the past, is in line with the aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will result in an additional enrichment of the individual layers, those who have the opportunity to step in with the sale in the context of an auction or any other way of sale. For the sake of the Slovenian National Party's claims, therefore, that it is exclusively a matter of enriching the individual layers in this society, the established practice speaks. Despite initiatives, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has never dealt with the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka privatised or sold past the conclusions and past the laws of this National Assembly. Today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia familiarizes us with a sales act, which also discusses cars with a Southern Coral code of 10,000 Slovenian Tolars, and, on the other hand, the same government, past the Slovenian public and past interested individual investors, sells 100 billion Slovenian Tolars a valuable share within the framework of the New Ljubljana Bank. I personally assess, and I stress, I personally appreciate that it is a matter of course of mockery from the National Assembly, and indirectly of course for mockery from the Slovenian State. To propose to us once an act which in its content talks about a car worth 10,000 tolars and will be concluded by the National Assembly and, on the other hand, the sale of assets worth 100 billion Slovenian tolars and does not even ask the National Assembly, although they are bound by the 1994 decision, which said that privatisation or sale of banks necessarily requires a privatisation law governing individual sales segments. But of course, the government of the Republic of Slovenia with this majority of Members, who are blindly following, can only afford all things in this country. Even though they're obviously going to hurt this country's love. We also assess in the Slovenian National Party that it is a deliberate poverty of the Republic of Slovenia or the country of Slovenia before entering the European Union. Because the fact is that - and this is perhaps the only good feature of the European Union - the government of the Republic of Slovenia will lose some authority from 1.5 years next and will no longer be able to do with this country what it has done so far. However, which is an additional argument why we do not intend to support this programme in the Slovenian National Party for the sale of state property, but in particular the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia already had a law on the sale of state property in the previous term, either for "bluff" or for any other related reason, put it into a procedure in the National Assembly, after which it has, of course, withdrawn it again. She withdrew from our assessment solely because of the fact that she could sell the individual's most vital or unvital, economic or non-economic facilities to whoever she wanted under the pretext of a government dictatorship in our country. Unfortunately, once again, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has withdrawn the law in that period and, of course, today we are faced with decrees, not with laws that would be uniform and, of course, with the whole country, regulate for all buyers the system of sale or purchase, however, on any other side. At the end of the opening presentation of the Slovenian National Party Group, we would also like to highlight the question raised by colleague Bogdan Barovic on the working body and he has not received a satisfactory answer. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, does not touch on these topics by word in its introductory explanation, nor in the Rapporteur. This is mainly to ensure the safety of employees in companies whose capital share will be sold off by the State. I think it is still an important question: how will the state react or whose protectors it will give to those companies it intends to sell and, as a rule, those companies in the socially more vulnerable regions, will protect themselves and will not allow new owners, which are both capital and politically close to the Liberal Democracy, to forgive those people who are today in these companies whose country is planning to sell or ruling political parties. Finally, based on some basic criticisms, among which we place in the Slovenian National Party in every way the purpose of the sale, which the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia still does not have designed and, secondly, the way of determining the value that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still does not have planned and defined, it seems to us, in these circumstances, to sell mainly real estate and capital shares in individual companies without purpose. This means, in other words, that the government sells things because of the system of sale and not because of behaviour or the need to invest, or the reinvestment of the financial resources that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will obtain from this title. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess both the activity of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and such a system of sale of state property as inappropriate. That is why we cannot support him in any way. In any case, we require the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to enrich us as soon as possible, and of course the State of the Republic of Slovenia will enrich us as soon as possible, or to introduce into the procedure a law on a uniform system of sale of all types of state property. During the period ahead of us, we can expect that, with such acts talking about individual sales of property, we will still meet, so it would make sense that we have the criteria that we will evaluate, especially in our country, to be fair and which will also be positively reflected within the European Union. Personally, however, I find it completely pointless to sell property, especially when it comes to a buyer who, I stress, and I repeat, is capital and politically close to the Slovenian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. My colleague, Master Vizjak will now present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u33	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The Public Finance Act requires the National Assembly to speak and, somehow, adopt both the programme and the additions and amendments to the State Property Sales Programme. And, of course, that's right if it's not an exaggeration. In the introduction, I would say that we have already discussed this pay phone and also on the Finance Committee that it is appropriate to change or also to adjust the practice that we will no longer talk about whether we are selling this keyboard of one computer, 5 years old, and the monitor of this computer and some Renault Clio, or a "five" which is kind of funny low, some are actually written off or have no value. It only applies, and the government would only make this recommendation that it no longer burdens us with such matters and that it does not burden the rapporteur's paper and then probably the Official Gazette and our working bodies with such things. Otherwise, the sales programme consists of three parts: the sale of capital shares, the sale of real estate and movable property. What is more, from this programme and also from the way it has come to Parliament, is that this programme wants to fill the budget on this revenue side so that all the expenditure that is practically higher than it was when the budget was adopted will be reimbursed. According to our assessment, the basic purpose of this programme is not to sell what is to be sold on the basis of such or other arguments, but primarily in order to make the most of the revenue side. This is also, in fact, to be understood from how this came into Parliament. It is said, based on some additions just before labor and also on poor explanations. I don't think the sale of real estate is really justified. Lands are sold, business buildings are sold, parts of business buildings without any serious analysis, at least presented to Parliament, but I believe that individual sales programmes must also be made in accordance with the law. Sorry we didn't get them. As far as the equity shares are concerned, there is a fear here, which, last but not least, has been pointed out by the predecessor. So whether this share that the state will sell, if it sells, is noble, or whether the companies that will be able to buy these equity shares will move the matter to a positive level, or whether this could only make it worse. The explanation shows a positive connotation of these capital shares, but we know from experience that this is not the case many times. I would only point out that in the sale of real estates, in particular parcels, we are missing and would also ask the applicants to explain why parcels are being sold, how the values of these land are determined. Some land is valued in its total value and some by square metres, and in particular the reasons and objectives of these sales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Diaci will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! We have before us a proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the sales programme for State and real property for 2003 and 2004, for which the public administrations assess that it is no longer necessary or is no longer in line with the purpose of use and it is reasonable to sell it. The reasons are stated in the explanations and the question is how much, at least as the sale of real estate and shares in enterprises is concerned. It is funny, however, that the National Assembly deals with the sale of used vehicles and other assets, such as photocopying machines and the like, whereas the sale of assets such as banks could not be affected by the whole monetary system whose sale affects inflation on a tolar exchange. Now, among other things, we will be deciding to sell the old krypsy if I am a bit banalised and where there is also a lot of irrationality. An unnecessary asset needs to be sold immediately, while the country can survive for it. However, the truth is that these unnecessary funds lie in the parking spaces of the administrative authorities and in different directions until they reach this decree, and at that time they have lost quite a lot of market value. Here, the state loses the suspicion of sumarum quite a bit, so it is necessary for the public administration authorities to be able to manage effectively and the National Assembly must strengthen its control over the implementation of this effective management. We therefore support the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to draw up a proposal for a law on the sale of state property, so that such an anomaly does not occur when the National Assembly decides to sell old cars for a few tens of thousands of dollars, while more important things go beyond the national assembly. Until this law, which will substantively separate the types of property and define the powers, is adopted, it is difficult for the opposition to assume responsibility for the adoption of this decision, because in our opinion we are under-informed in the opposition for effective management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I see some colleagues speaking on behalf of the parliamentary groups speaking from the bench, but some try to follow a rule that is not written to be spoken here behind the speaker stage. I would therefore ask that all of us have about the same attitude in presenting the views of the parliamentary groups behind the main speaker stage. My colleague, Dr. Jožef Bernik, will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group. Am I right? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will now move on to the word of Members and Members. I do not see a colleague of the like in the Chamber, but my colleague Bernik now wants a word as a Member. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u37	Mr President, government guests, ladies and gentlemen! In view of the new comments that have already been made, I will be somewhat limited to some other things, so that in one example, this is on Soča, I will mention some problems. First of all, I would like to mention that the government proposal is very detailed, but it does not show us the actual state of the property that the government still owns and that will sooner or later come back to auction. I don't know if such a list of real property owned by the government already exists and if it exists, whether it's public or secret. After all, this should be public information. I will also confirm my agreement with what has been said to us here to get multiple sides of different objects and so on which [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Some sales are completely insignificant. [[...]] I think we've already suggested somehow that this should come out and that this should be done. However, when we get proposals for larger assets to be sold, we need to approve this, but I do not think that the process should end. This process should continue and the government should then report on what assets have been sold, for what price and other conditions. As I said, I will only mention Soča, who has been mentioned several times in several rapporteur numbers. If I understand correctly, the government in this society intends to sell a small part, but it also intends to retain part of it because this company performs a public economic service. The government also says that it would try to make this sale together with KAD in order to achieve better effects. What does that mean? It's not clear. Since KAD is owned by the State, it is a puzzle to me what this will contribute to improving the functioning of this company. It is not clear, since on the other hand, the government also mentions that KAD will increase its capital share and then it is not clear whether it will do so by purchasing government shares or otherwise. All of this also leads me to the comment I made last week to the Minister of Economy, who was not present, and that is, I drew attention to the decision of the European Court of Justice, which decided that the government, after the privatisation of a company has been carried out and the government has no longer had a strong share, that this is not the case, and so Volkswagen and other companies have had a lot of problems. I think someone should start thinking about this with us. I haven't received an answer from the lady yet, but I expect it yet. In addition, I would say that in all these companies, which are mentioned, if we were to operate economically, we would certainly need much more information than we now have. That's how sometimes when we approve of it, we buy a cat's jacket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much, colleague Bernick. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u39	In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this is an extremely important content and, above all, to determine how to sell. In our presentation of the Group's position, we expressed our disagreement and pointed out all eight points in which we do not agree with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the sale of state property. For the first time, it's the intent to sell. In the Slovenian National Party, we are still assessing that the government does not have a well-formed view of why a particular case is being sold in that country. But of course, I am talking exclusively about capital shares and real estate. I am certainly not talking about the cars you gave us today to make decisions about those cars with ridiculously low prices; I am missing out on my next discussion. On the other hand, it is still an open question of how to determine values. The fact is that whenever the Slovenian state trusted you, you sold it below the value. If we look at just the last big project, this is the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, the government of the Republic of Slovenia has endured 300 billion Slovenian tolars of minus. Let me remind you that the rehabilitation of the banking system cost this country 400 billion Slovenian tolars, but when the government of the Republic of Slovenia sold the New Ljubljana Bank very ignorantly, you, of course, only 100 billion Slovenian tolars have been paid. The findings and guidance of the Finance Committee, namely the home working body of the National Assembly, on the purpose of adopting a law on the sale of State property, are meaningless or unrealistic and on their part uncreditable, since the fact that most of these committees consist of government policies. The possibility of discussing the sale of state property was offered by the Slovenian National Party to the National Assembly and the Finance Committee on the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, and the National Assembly itself, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, said, no, the National Assembly does not want to deal with the sale system of the New Ljubljana Bank, and the National Assembly will not invite the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the hearing. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia said nothing in the same moss, but we will not explain anything to the National Assembly. So talking about the fact that the committee wants a law and wants to be aware of individual sales is, unfortunately, impossible in this composition of the National Assembly, so they allow themselves and allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be free of the megalomanic moves they are taking at this point. In a similar sense, the debate or request of the Slovenian National Party for an extended response in the context of rising inflation, where the national assembly with a large majority of government Members, the Liberal Democracy, the United List, the DeSUS and the People's Party, rejected the initiative to open the national council on inflation, thus prepared for a rebalancing by the end of the year and the budget for the following years. Four days later, the same presidents of these four parties decide how necessary it is to start fighting inflation. In the Slovenian National Party, unfortunately - in fact, I stress "sorry" - we can no longer believe such matters. This points to some kind of non-creditability of the Slovenian government when, on the one hand, public statements reach agreements on property, they reach agreements on halting inflation, and when these agreements need to be implemented, they should all vote against it in the framework of the National Assembly. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the system of sales, as submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is wrong twice, 16.5. and 2.6. This system offers blurry, nothing more. While the most important things in this country are sold at the price of pre-selected buyers [[I've counted the cases for you before.]] , you offer to the National Assembly, in the form of a kind of legal act, the sale of those things that are worth several thousand Slovenian tolars. According to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is only trying to wash its hands in this way. However, the fact is that the purpose of the government, at least to my understanding of the Slovenian state, should not be exclusively and only in selling at the price of its client friends, but the task of the government should be one and only one. This is the achievement of the welfare or better standard of Slovenians and Slovenk. Acting economically and in such a way that it will take place positively and in the long term and will reflect in the future of our lives. In the Slovenian National Party of such acts, according to our assessment of misleading acts, of course we cannot support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Comrade Kelemin, please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Here I have one question that arises in this proposal, which is obviously to be accepted by the coalition in the proposed form. However, a fundamental question is raised with regard to the competence of the National Assembly to this document. The Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that this is a document of the National Assembly. Of course, the proposer is a government, but in fact the document of the National Assembly and the National Assembly as a whole or those who decide whether this document is in conformity with all the rules and whether it is in line with expectations. Not only with regulations, but also with the expectations of citizens, but also of all others who are interested in a system in this area that is expected to be transparent and fair and fair. From what we have received, it is indeed clear, and also from the debate so far, that many things are not clearly defined, but not the very competence of individual institutions of the National Assembly and of the National Assembly as a whole, with regard to the responsibility to adopt such an important document as the disposal of State property. You should be aware of that. I ask myself in this document, as in a number of other documents, where this is written and what is the competence of the President of the National Assembly in this document, in such documents, in the State Assembly as a whole, in individual labour bodies, in the legislative and legal services, in committees and so on. These exchanges are not precisely defined and who is the one in this national council who will ensure that this document is as it should be, and that it will also be monitored and that all resales of state property will be properly monitored, that we also know what actually happened with this property, how it was sold, whether it was all done as regularly as we expect. It is not, however, that the National Assembly now gives the Bianca to the government to have and do with state property, which it actually loves. I'm really wondering, and this is where we need to settle these things once. I don't know what you're imagining in the coalition, in the leadership of the National Assembly, that you don't touch these things. See, the government itself said or a government representative explained that a certain confusion stems from the law on public finances and is therefore a consequence of the established system. That is why the government has to act innovatively and redesign proposals, complement the asset sales programme and so on. It is therefore likely to propose appropriate legislative changes in this area in the future, and so on. Please! What have you been doing? What have you been doing so far? And now I hear here explanations from the parliamentary groups, given that the Committee on Finance has decided that we are going to do these things, I think the Government is in charge of preparing some new starting points, explanations by September, and so on, that this is satisfactory that we can now accept this proposal. No, no, not a hundred times! We should reject this motion for a decree that is before us today. This would be the only right move of the National Assembly and the responsible conduct of the National Assembly as a whole. Things aren't set up. Why are we doing this? Why? I'm just wondering why. This is unacceptable and, of course, I don't blame the government. I tell you in truth that I do not hold a grudge against the representatives of the government in this regard. And I don't blame anyone in this country on the fact that the National Assembly is either trying to cheat or play or, I don't know, whatever. I don't blame them. This is their fundamental role, the function of trying to work operationally as far as possible under existing legislation. But I resent the national assembly as a whole, the leadership of the National Assembly, its services and all those who keep on the watch that these things are right and fair to allow such things to happen. Yeah, so what are we? Nothing. That's it. That's because we're nothing. And I'm not going to put myself in this, the reselling, one or the other, really not. Because it is beneath me to actually deal with the sale of some small shares of cars and so on, not to talk about the Ljubljana Bank, where we did not have these powers and so on. I'm just not getting into this stuff. These are fundamental issues that are unresolved. And you don't want to do anything perfect to resolve these issues. You don't want to. And now with one banal decision to do it by September, you're trying to get these things under the rug. That's not how you do it. Of course, it's an old practice, keep going. Well, a mess like that in all areas is here. There's no debate about that. But it's interesting, let's say that in previous proposals, if you remember who were now replaced, how the government suggested it with 16. Five, one, two. 6. If I am not mistaken, there were some initial proposals. They are now replaced by this new proposal. The Talum was also in the previous proposal. Do you remember? But apparently, a little of these things have begun to be discussed more intensively by the public, and you've found that things aren't that far off yet and that they're also a little bit strange. So you've been very elegantly withdrawing things so that there wouldn't be an in-depth debate in the National Assembly, because we know certain things about how the State's assets are being tried to alienate unfairly and unfairly to the detriment of the State as a whole. That's what you tried to do with Talum. Now you have learned that the matter is not yet ripe, for you will prepare this matter slowly so that it will be mature. And then you're gonna get it back together, and the National Assembly is gonna burn this whole thing down, and it's gonna be solved. Don't get me mixed up! Please! Let the entire Slovenian public know and write down that I will not answer here and I do not want to take responsibility. Although it's minimal. One whole and only a small percentage, according to 90 members of the National Assembly. I'm not here, and I don't want to be. I will not support this, and I hope that you will take a moment to yourself and that you will think about these things and that you will act accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Since there have been some criticisms at the expense of the National Assembly as an institution in dealing with this bill or with this point, the decree should tell you that we are acting in accordance with the law and if you have any other proposal to act on this matter, please give it. Not me, not my colleagues, we don't interfere with our views on how to deal with this point differently. Comrade Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. In the decision on the sales programme for State and real property for 2003 and 2004, I would like to draw attention to some of the facts which are particularly important from a public financial point of view. It is a whole range of assets that can be arranged and completed in a way that can serve present needs. In particular, I have in mind the needs which are reflected in the reorganisation of the Slovenian army during the adjustment of Slovenia to join NATO. The whole range of objects is located in locations that do not otherwise have some great market value due to their location. On the other hand, it is noted that there are many facilities dedicated to the activities of the military, but they are in extremely attractive locations where they could be used for these facilities by sale very much. I would like to point out this mainly because of the fact that I know that there are a lot of objects in the Kočevska River area that are in very good condition, but they are not used today for the needs and tomorrow's needs of the Slovenian army. But if we want to sell them on the market, we don't actually take anything for them. On the contrary, of course, there is a whole range of facilities within large urban centres, where the possibility of expanding military activities is in fact limited, and therefore, in the long run, such a direction is questionable. I would point out that in the next drafting of the decisions, they are trying to comply with these criteria mainly because of the public financial crisis, if I say so, which is currently present when we are trying to organise ourselves in the most rational way possible. I think that such an approach I have mentioned would lead to, of course, all these developmental perspectives being aligned with the possibilities and, above all, that we have more stable public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you. The next one has the word, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u45	These are the issues that we are currently discussing, that is, those who are interested in citizens, citizens, ultimately taxpayers, and who are sensitive precisely because they have tangible consequences, are seen through property, whether it is real or otherwise, in real estate, etc. The question is why and whether the National Assembly can decide on all these issues whether it is qualified, qualified, has sufficient data and is responsible for this. I think we need to discuss this decision because we have adopted such legislation in this national assembly. I am sure that, when we accepted this, no one believed that on the list of this unnecessary, unnecessary, poorly used property, even poorly controlled things that were necessary after the end of the depreciation good, we would discuss this in order to discuss cars, typewriters and I do not know what else. But apparently it has led to a desire at the time to adopt the law, that we will have a review, that we will have control, that we will decide, that the whole thing is actually absurd. I agree that when we decide about the trees, we do not see the forest and therefore the discomfort. After all, the rejection of decision-making in itself means that there are many of us, even when we had the present Villa Bled on the list, there were a number of questions and I was among those who advocated that we postpone it and that these issues be clarified in this regard. That is what I would do about any other question. That is why I am closer to an explanation, which has also appeared on the committee, that we should share these things in a way where the government, which is the government, will ultimately act on behalf of the State, including this national assembly and citizens, will, of course, be the real and other property that this country has, which is responsible for it. This government must come here with what the law imposes upon it. I think that a number of these discussions could be held in the context of the budgetary discussion when it comes to where the state meets its assets and how it carries out them and how much of it survives into the budget or actually appears in the role of a good host or it would be better to withdraw from the enterprises where it has shares, as well as to resell certain things that it does not need anymore, which it does not, or sees in this exercise any long-term interest. So it is with a specific Villa Bled, and there are still many such cases. The previous debater spoke of military facilities. I signed the amendment myself - although later the debate on this - when you see things failing to dominate themselves, but at the second stage it is an interest, then it is the master's duty to do something and decide whether to manage it, to use it, to benefit from it, because the end is also responsible here, or to sell it, and thus, of course, to start another, whether to reduce public debt or to impose it elsewhere and so on. That is why I support all those discussions that are going in the direction of making a national assembly a legislative body and a supervisory body if you want to have an overview of what the government is doing. In accordance with the laws, however, the government must manage property and when it comes to resale or the decision to dispose of certain things, if so I can say that it does so by means of procedures which are prescribed, which require public tendering, competitions that require control, audits, etc. With such a list here, the question is whether to say on every subject that I am 100% sure that I am doing the right thing and that the government has judged best whether it is right to do so now that it is on the list and the other is not. I know that some of the shares in some companies have been on the sales lists for years and years, but there is no realisation of this sale, and they have also been approved by the National Assembly and there is no sale: either because there is no interest or because it is too high a price or because somehow it is not ready. I would like to doubt certain decisions when there has been no divestment of shares in some state-owned companies, that it has been in, I will say, I will not say boycott, but I will say to obstruct employees and those who are interested in being exactly that in such a structure. It is much easier today to be in a company that is still the deadline of the state and in some media to warm up than to go to the market and to compete. And that, of course, is understandable. I have also understood this type of problem through these lists, and I think it is a pity for the country, if, in its own way, it has some things that do not bring profit to it, and many times the loss that I am not talking about large systems, from railways and all the other things that have been restructured in the past years, but will certainly be part of this privatisation in the public sector even through the divestment. I therefore support the proposal that the government should come with a change of law and then discuss what the National Assembly will do and what the government will do and how it will report to the National Assembly on these actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u46	Dr. Bajuk, you have a very short time available, that's nine seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u47	For the time being, only one question to government representatives: When will you decide to respect the Slovenian Constitution, the second paragraph of Article 146, which states that the state and the local communities show the value of their assets by means of property balances? Tell me who in the world would even hope to come to their congregation - and this is like a congregation of some big joint venture - and ask permission to sell real state property without even bringing us where we are! Gentlemen, you can have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u48	Dr. Bayuk's colleague!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u49	Meetings, have you also decided on Sunday to respect or not in the next five hundred days?Oh, my God! [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u50	It was also stated in writing that you would give up your speech. Nevertheless, you have been given the opportunity to speak, and you have also overstepped your time. Comrade Jerovšek is next in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At a time when we are facing great social hardship in the country and when the government has acknowledged that it has been leading the wrong economic policy in recent years, and now with great advertising it is proposing a new economic programme, we would expect it to pursue positive objectives for the country in the sale of assets. However, it seems that these countries, these authorities and these parties do not have anything to do with bluffing citizens. I must admit, you've been very successful at this. In fact, our citizens do not have the opportunity and they do not insist on having a review to have a balance sheet, let's say what my predecessor demanded that power come with some property balance before the National Assembly. Look, I don't know if it's just a case of this case, this decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the sale of state-owned and real-estate property for two years came into consideration in the National Assembly just before the time of pickles or before the sale. Basically, the government here has offered us a big summer sale program. It is known that, if it is so prepared to rule, or if it is actually selling only unpredictable goods that no one wants and should be sold out, or if at this time sour cucumbers knit so poorly prepared, so untransparent, so imprecise things that interesting things, real property, capital shares of interesting things that will carry into future profits, will be sold under the table to well-known, well-known buyers and below the price. This is what this power has been doing in recent years. It is not surprising, therefore, that it is now facing a catastrophic economic situation in the country, a catastrophic social situation and an increase in social distribution. This decree is clearly intended to further enrich formerly destination customers, some buyers, members of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom. How many times has it been said here that sales must be based on the law, the banks, all the real estate? We have heard today about the manoeuvres in which the law, which has only been brought to Parliament, has withdrawn it, that sand has been thrown back into the eyes of citizens and taxpayers. That's how it was done, and that's how it's gonna be done in advance. At the outset, the Secretary-General of the Government said that the bookkeeping values here are only on average to be valued. Why doesn't he come with some appreciation? Why does this National Assembly have no control over why it does not have an intermediate return on selling what is important for sale? You set up a commission and then you sell state property forward, and no one can ask any more questions. What is on the table today is an attempt to give a transparent and democratic look, but unfortunately that is not the case. I also see, after what you are pursuing, that there is no power, the government, to draw some positive consequences from this. The fact is that in the case of the sale of quarantined property, the State is mainly bidding down to select the lower bidders of these cases, but this is mainly done through the Slovenian development company, there is little business in here. A good master would not sell in the way that a country sells And the second thing I see is when you sell this list, they're primarily sold in the Trbovlje mine, for example, good parts. Let's say Toplar Oakener. In any case, it's a production that brings profit, money that can't be broken. I don't know if you're gonna sell them at a good price. It's built in here, like reading, cogeneration. That's what you call the greatest energy gain. I hear I'm a little bit sure it's one mega watt of electricity production at 1.3 megawatt of heat produced, so I'm just wondering what's going to be the actual estimated value for which you're going to sell. I know so much about things, about technology, about energy, that I know it's a good thing. And how will this be sold? In others, it's TDR Metallurgy. Here you are actually selling a company in difficulty, probably in distress, in order to obtain a larger volume of sales and a strategic partner that will help with experience, technological knowledge and market connections to the greater volume of sales needed due to the high level of fixed costs of the company. The situation here is different. This is where it was waiting. First, the better parts were sold out, now the part that was tried, which was also in the past by the state, I know, a lot of property taken and is now in trouble. I am interested, however, in the fact that the country or previous owners, when Korund Ruša was part of this factory, were never able to sell as part of the Dušik Ruša. And then they sold Traibacher Korund from Austria at a lousy, minimal price. Since then, there have been crazy profits, of course, for an Austrian buyer. In the same people about, and since then, crazy profits. And if you look back, it is known that these things were not sold transparently and that you are following exactly the same goals here. Most things are sold past these papers anyway. This serves as a bluff and in this way it does not really make sense for us to take responsibility for what the state will sell and will try to put into the hands and pockets of its customers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u52	My friend Grošelj is not present, my colleague Shirtz is not present either. I'd like to invite a representative of the government. Will this be the Secretary-General, Secretary of State? Secretary of State. Please, Mag. You've got a chance to perform here. Then we'll go to articles or amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In view of the accelerated part of the discussion, allow me to speak a few words about the objectives that we are pursuing in the sale of the financial state assets of capital investments. The objective of selling state-owned capital investments, where the state is the owner, in particular where the majority is the owner, is such companies where they are not in the public interest, that they continue to be state-owned, here, of course, it is known what is the public interest of the State, that it continues to hold the majority in public ownership and what is not, that these companies will become as competitive in the global market as possible, which means both in Slovenia and outside Slovenia. In this process of privatisation, we choose such strategic partners, which will be fit not only to lower costs not only to maximize the proceeds, so-called proceeds, in the final goal that some see in reaching maximum purchases, but primarily to complement the quality of services and business processes in a particular company or bank that is privatising. The aim is to make a firm or bank competitive in the long term, to enforce its existing competitive values on the market, potentially, and, of course, to acquire such strategic partners that will support this in the long term. This means, of course, including employment and a clear strategy defining a clear relationship between the quality of services, costs and employment in a particular company or bank. Therefore, the fundamental objective is not to sell state property to known persons, but to affirm it at all levels. This is what we are also trying to do with government materials that are being judged by Members of Parliament, even today, to affirm the public interest in privatisation. Public interest is to build modern cooperative principles in companies and banks, with a combination of experience. In the largest transaction mentioned today, the experiences of foreign and domestic knowledge partners clearly show what is in the interests of all partners, both owners, commissioners and employees in companies and banks in general. Public interest is also the long-term maintenance of solid performance performances of companies and banks for long-term quality maintenance and employment development and long-term orientation in the investment development structure. In order to achieve these objectives, we have established and established in each privatisation process, in each case a practical commission composed of experts in various fields, depending on the area in which the Ministry of the Interior of each capital investment appears as a potential candidate for sale. Today we have some of these companies from a financial point of view, and this will also ensure the transparency of the procedures. These procedures aim not only to maximize effects, but also to increase transparency. Finally, it is also an interest in reaching the level of the purchase used to reduce public debt. This means reducing public debt financing costs, as well as setting long-term nominal interest rates and reducing inflation Even that part of the specific questions that are somehow the most in the eyes and need answers. The total national property sold after a decree published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No 118 of 30.12.2002, amounts to 477 billion, tolars today, which is further sold from this decree, and this figure, this property being sold, is shown to be increased to 485 billion. If this were compared to the average of the country's consolidated asset balance over the last three years, this figure would be 10%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u54	Please, Secretary General, you'd like to update.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. He explained a few more things. I agree with those Members who have claimed that it may be a bit insulting for the National Assembly to have a government with such a decision, a property worth several thousand dollars and so on. But I have to say that this is a system - this is a law adopted by the National Assembly, an amendment created here and the government has not invented this system. And also, believe me, the government would act politically extremely unwisely if immediately after the adoption of this law or this novel came with a new law; that is, this novel is valid for about a year and I think it is right that in practice it has shown what the weaknesses of this are. Therefore, as I have also said on the Committee, and I reiterate, the Government of course agrees and notes that this area needs to be regulated systematically. It will therefore draw up a law; perhaps not within the time limit that Member Kelemin has interpreted the Committee's decision to propose to the National Assembly that this be prepared by the autumn session of the State Assembly, because if this is meant to be a September meeting, then we all probably know together that business cannot be enough. In any event, by the end of the year, the government will have submitted such a law. A few more answers. Of course, we are pursuing positive goals, as the Secretary of State has already said, that we want to deal economically with those assets that are no longer in service that we do not need and whose value is thus falling from day to day. I therefore argue that the sale of assets is generally for day-to-day, day-to-day, day-to-day, day-to-day transactions to be adapted and even for one-year planning by the government, or for months-to-month pre-planning is pointless and impossible. Of course, in time these things lose their value. I must say that in the decree all the values listed were based on the valuations - and that is also the answer to Mr Jerovšk. I have not previously claimed that these are book values, these are valuations, but we need to re-check them before the sale goes into public auction. However, I have to say that the valuation is not there, because the value of the valuation would be higher than the same sales value when it comes to a few thousand-dollar old car, it probably doesn't make sense to judge how valuable it is. However, I must, of course, deny all those political discussions, which I do not think was the right place, or this point is not right for something like this. Slovenia does not have a catastrophic economy, it does not have a catastrophically poor social situation, but Slovenia is one of the better countries not only in transition, even when compared with other countries of the European Community. This I certainly think is also the result of this country's well-thought-out policy over the past ten years. I must also deny that we have any buyers who would be known in the future. The decree only allows the initiation of the sales procedure, as has already been said in the debate. If there is no buyer, if the price is too high, if we are not satisfied with what we would have taken out of such a sale, then of course the sale does not come and there is a better time, if that makes sense. In any case, we do not check who and which customer belongs to the buyer who appears at the auction with the best offer. It is determined who pays more and who more does, because I think it is also in the interests of taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 11 July this year. I propose that we exchange views on the table, complementing the decision on the sales programme for 2003 and 2004, annexed to the decree, in the part of the Building and the premises, to the amendment of Mr Anderlič. This would also put to the debate the second part of the decree and the amendment of colleague Anderlič. First, I'm gonna ask if anyone wants to talk about who still has the time. If there's time for more, I'll ask for more. First of all, those who have time at their disposal. My friend Bayuk wants it. Well, then, does anyone else want it? Comrade Dr. Bayuk, please. Five minutes. About the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich spoke, we decide about the tree, but we don't see the forest. Not only do we not see the forest, we sometimes only decide what bush. But you have to ask yourself why we don't see the forest, how we can see the forest, how the National Assembly can learn how big this forest is. Mr. Secretary-General refers to the laws. Of course, we have holes in our legislation and there is always one "spray" where we can get through a number of decrees, including what we are dealing with today. But above all this is the Slovenian Constitution. However, the Slovenian Constitution only requires the state and the municipalities to demonstrate what they have, through the balance sheet. You will know for sure that you will remember that I have warned you about this a number of times, not in the National Assembly, either in the working bodies, or in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Why don't we have that? Yeah, because we don't. Because we don't want to hear about it. We don't want to ask. But it would be normal. And that would be normal in any country in the world, as is normal in the business world, that if the administration comes up with one proposal to sell something, yes, to at least present a comprehensive picture of what we have to understand what they decided today to sell, what else. What colleague Jerovšek warned. We once had a budget implementation law for 2003, not only did we have written down to sell the Talum's share, but we also had a record of where that money would go. And it's a long time, nine paragraphs is in that article, how we're going to distribute the 18 billion tolars that we're going to get out of this. It's interesting, now that he's not on the list, he's not on the list tomorrow, he's gone tomorrow. And the distinguished representatives of the government, please don't refer to the law. We are finally talking about one crucial issue. And that's whether the National Assembly really has a role to play in this area or just the role of someone, one gentleman who always says to his wife, yes, you're right, this dress is also beautiful, this is beautiful, and she's beautiful. Everything's fine. Everything you bring, we put pressure on the buttons here quickly, and then it becomes legal. And to explain to you once again, distinguished representatives of the government, what bothers us in all this. It bothers us that there is obviously a plan to maintain impossibility in this area. Why do I say it's a plan? Since the government has its own strategy, otherwise the National Assembly doesn't know, because you won't tell us we're already asking for it, we don't get it. We know that Slovenian taxpayers have spent a few more coins, with one contract with the Faculty of Economics of Ljubljana University, where there were several suggestions how I should have done a little better in our capital market. And the proposals were very concrete how this should be done. That's not what we're talking about. I have asked several times the Minister, Dr. Marble, because he was one of the designers of these proposals. And we've learned about this in the media before he even thought or dreamed that he would suddenly face these responsibilities at the Ministry of Finance. But of course he also says, it looks like he's got his hands tied, that he can't, it's not going through. Why isn't he going through? What's bothering us? Do you know what's bothering us? I will explain to you what bothers us that these things, these investments of the state, Slovenian country, of which we all own, are being sold in a grey market. Do you know what a gray square is? Yes, the gray market is the unorganized part that is more than 90 percent of everything in our country. And why is it gray? Do you know why it's gray? Because he's blurry because there's no control and there's a lot of dirt in him. And we're selling all this stuff on a gray market. I specifically asked about Paloma, of course the government tells us: of course we have made prices. Yeah, not only do you have valuers, you also have certain people who shouldn't make that kind of appreciation. When do we find out? We find out later when it's already done, when there's nothing we can do. We can make an investigative commission and we can all hang around here and talk a lot, or you can release someone from the government coalition again to tell us how crime needs to be prevented in Slovenia. Only with transparency and common sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u59	And common sense tells us that there is no good master in the world who hopes to get permission without showing a complete picture.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u60	A colleague of Dr. Bayuk's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u61	Gentlemen, you failed that exam again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much. If I had been very consistent, I should have interrupted you several times because you were not talking about the amendment that we are currently discussing. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Does the government want another word about this now or not? [[...]] Then we'll close the debate. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, you can't do that. [[...]] I asked earlier whether anyone else would like a word, you did not raise your hands, and in accordance with the rules of business I now have to conclude the debate. The assembly will vote at 7.55 p.m. With this, we will break this agenda item. We will move on to the 14th item of the agenda, this is to consider the agreement to the work programme of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 at 12.40 p.m. So in less than 20 minutes. The proposal or programme was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I believe that the Minister will also have an introduction to this debate. Until then, I am adjourning the debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u63	Dear colleagues! There's no co-worker at the moment. Nicely greeted! Let's get back to work, at 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - AGREEMENTS TO THE PROGRAMME OF THE WORK OF THE AUTHORITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, D. D. FOR THE YEAR 2003 The programme was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I very much welcome the Minister of Transport, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Transport, Dr Tomaž Vidica, and the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Transport, Gregor Fick, and the mag has just arrived. Janez Christmas, CEO of Dars. I give the floor to a representative of the government. Which one of you decides to give an introductory explanation or an additional explanation of the program? Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Dars work programme is a document prepared on the basis of the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 6 of this Law, the Dars programme shall be adopted by the Government in accordance with the role of the Assembly in agreement with the National Assembly. The work programme was a central document for the implementation of the motorway programme before 1997 or before the adoption of the Public Road Act. The Law on Public Roads has, however, translated the programme or content part of the implementation of the motorway programme into an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways. This limited the content of the work programme to the work of the company itself, thus significantly reducing the importance of the document. The 2003 Dars Work Programme is in line with the adopted annual development and maintenance plan for the 2003 motorways, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 18 December last year. According to this annual plan, there are 116.4 billion tolars to manage, maintain and build motorways, 34% more than in 2002, and 91.1 billion tolars to be built alone, a good 38% more than in 2002. Thus, in 2003 this is the far-reaching and most demanding annual programme. The annual work programme of Darsa described and described in detail the planning of the company's activities necessary for the implementation of the basic basic planning document adopted last December, the annual development and maintenance plan for 2003 for motorways. There are virtually no numbers in the document, but four chapters, as has already been said, describe in detail the activities of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you, Minister, for the introductory explanation or additional explanation for what we have received with the material. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, as a parent working body, has considered the proposal for a programme and I ask the representative of the Committee to submit a report to the Committee. He's not here. We'll move on. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I give first word to Andre Fabjan SLS. Instead, it's my friend Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party has such views on the Dars programme for 2003. The National Assembly shall adopt an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for each year. For 2003, only Members accepted this plan in due time at the meeting on 18 December last year. The 2003 work programme of Dars is based on the annual plan, followed consistently by operationalising this plan, in accordance with the adopted annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways. Although the national programme has not achieved a certain dynamic of highway construction in recent years, the construction of motorways in Slovenia has been an important factor in the promotion of the Slovenian economy since the start of the national highway construction programme and has been more intensive than ever. The fact that a total of 240 kilometres of motorways were built in the last nine years when the national programme was implemented represents almost a fifth of the number of motorways built, compared with the previous quarter of the century of uncontinuous construction before the accelerated highway construction programme was launched, which was adopted in 1994. Macro-economists note that investments in the construction of the highway network have a positive impact on most sectors of the national economy, as well as on major macroeconomic aggregates, while completed road links open up new development opportunities for local communities in their integration with regional centres and abroad. Macro-economic studies have found that without a motorway programme, aggregate investment would be reduced by almost 8% per year. Gross social income growth would be lower by almost a percentage, industrial output growth by a quarter of a percent and final consumption by a percentage and a quarter. Annually, the motorway programme directly contributed to the total investment by more than 5%, with some over $200 million per year being invested in the construction of motorways, representing a good fifth of all construction works. Unlike the relatively large increase in the investment value of the accelerated construction of motorways from the start of their implementation in 1994 to the end of 1998, investment values from the current national programme, i.e. from 1998 to today, have been calmed and within the limits of expectations and realistic possibilities. This is positive and must be insisted upon. Moreover, it is necessary to address the draft resolution on the national highway construction programme, which will address the shortcomings of the current national programme as soon as possible, to include the real financial opportunities that the Republic of Slovenia has in place to build the necessary motorway network and to optimise its funding resources. At the same time, the early status transformation of Darsa - this is not just privatisation - is also essential - into a legal society. The document that we are discussing is actually the plan of a company, Dars, how to achieve business or, if you want, national objectives this year, based on documents already adopted by the National Assembly. I'd only add two more thoughts to that. In Rapporteur No 35 on page 82 - the choice of funds, we understand that 32% of revenue is from the earmarked means of building motorways, 22% represent tolls and rents, loans from international financial institutions 26%, foreign financial credits and projected credits each 10 and other resources are very small, less than 1%. In doing so, particular attention should be paid to the management and cost of toll collection. Even though we get 25 billion 350 million, it represents 4 billion 847 million 19% of the costs, or that part of the money that goes from the collected tolls to the very cost of implementing the Darsa programme, which is probably not the best. We have also adopted some additional conclusions in the Infrastructure Committee, including the amendment to 4.1.3: "The Company will also carry out restructuring and debt management activities and look for different options for changes in the forms of repayment". "In the event that the terms of individual debts for which a special law has granted consent and the State guarantee have to be amended in order to restructure debts, it will also be necessary to amend the laws in question." It is suggested that Dars should only look for options for different funding, with a call for any participation that will be important and good for the country, and that expensive loans should be traded for cheaper if they can be obtained on the market. The Slovenian People's Party will also support this programme for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you, Ivan Christmas. Mr Lenko will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members! The 2003 programme of work of the Association for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia, which describes the activities of the company necessary for the implementation of the annual development and maintenance of motorways, has been examined in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and we will support the proposed decision of the Committee on Consent to the Programme of Work of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Nevertheless, we do have some comments that may not directly concern the work programme itself, but we think that today is an opportunity to draw attention to them, rather, to draw attention again. The construction of any infrastructure, and thus the highway network, undoubtedly means faster economic development of the region where infrastructure is being established. Despite the assurance that the construction of the highway cross is proceeding according to plans, many users would find it difficult to agree with such an assessment. Perhaps not entirely justified, but in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners we believe that the misperception may also be due to the lack of acceptance of the already promised rebalancing or changes to the national programme. At least as far as legal grounds are concerned, the situation is unclear today, some documents duplicate content, with some documents the powers of Dars are extended through the legal jurisdiction of the Company for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the DeSUS Group want the government to deliver as quickly as possible a rebalance or change and complement the national programme for the construction of motorways, which, according to the Secretary of State, is already in the final stage, while at the same time we will advocate that I am not changing the substantive programme but that it should only be updated. We are of the opinion that there is also a need to prepare a comprehensive financial review of the implementation and the financial programme and a way of financing for the implementation of the highway programme in the future. With an appropriate legal basis, Members will be given a real basis for all other documents which must be in accordance with the national programme and which are decided by the national assembly. The users of the motorway will get a clear idea of what and how it will happen to the Slovenian highway cross in the future, as well as other sections and connections of the motorway. Our Group of Members supports the decree formulated by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you. Bogdan Barovic, position of the Slovenian National Group Parliamentary Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, coworkers, colleagues, colleagues. The first question that we asked ourselves in the Slovenian National Party when together, as far as we were able, we reviewed the work programme of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia is that it is a little late to talk about it for 2003. However, it is right that the program is designed. We have generally assessed in the Slovenian National Party that we will give our consent to this programme. However, the distinguished ministers and representatives of the branches of government, allow some well-intentioned comments which we have drawn from the entire programme in the Slovenian National Party and we wish to stress today. The first remark of the Slovenian National Party is at point 2, which discusses the preparation, organisation and management of the construction and maintenance of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. We absolutely agree with the second paragraph, the paragraph in point 2, which says: "Revaluation and evaluation of tenders. If the tenders of operators substantially exceed the expected value, Dars will cancel and repeat such invitations." In short, we absolutely agree with this statement. In particular, allow us to express our disagreement with the third paragraph, which says: "When assessing and assessing the acceptability of the price offered and other tendering conditions, Dars, a shareholder company, takes into account the same situation of domestic and foreign operators in the submission of parts." We do not agree with this paragraph and its content in the Slovenian National Party. I think and I think it would be right that we should be able and should take into account, above all, domestic operators, because we do not want to repeat stories like Grassetto, RGD, etc., especially because unfortunately mining construction activity, which has built tunnels around the world and many other things, is gone today. This is what we are not in the Slovenian National Party and we will never agree on. We estimate that it would be right for Slovenian operators to take precedence over the implementation of the works, of course, within the scope of the option. On the 76th page of the Rapporteur you are talking about the systemic arrangements for the transfer of individual facilities owned by the State to the management of the competent organisations and you are talking about the resolution of the dilemma of free transfer and the power to transfer it. The content statement is clear, of course, but we are interested in the Slovenian National Party in what way, how can, or is it assessed, you will systematically regulate the mode of transfer? Chapter 2.1.7 - Organising and managing the construction of additional toll stations and beyond and in this connection there are quite a few concerns in the Slovenian National Party. If we look at the parent's report, it's on page 2, I think it's a very important warning. It says this: "They have raised the issue of new links with neighbouring countries and also how to pay tolls according to different systems in our country and according to the recommendations of the European Union." As you know, the distinguished representatives of the Executive Branch of the Authority had many doubts and words in the national programme as well as elsewhere about the claim in point 2.1.7 that we will continue to build additional toll stations in the Republic of Slovenia. This claim can be legitimate from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but it seems to me that such a claim should be examined and taken into account many and many times the questions raised, why so many toll stations, why such multiplication, traffic interference, why such a way? Perhaps part of the response is seen further in the following points 3.1 - Toll collection, where you are talking about optimization of the toll system and in particular Road, reimbursement and other inflows" point 4.1.2. where you plan to increase the toll height and plan to implement the reduction of the toll exemption on internationally accepted obligations and on intervention vehicles. Furthermore, the unaltered situation in the field of the relationship between tolls and the gradual limitation of the decoupling of heavy goods vehicles along parallel roads. I'm not sure all these claims are correct and correct. Once again, in the Republic of Slovenia we feel that the number of toll stations is too large. We do not agree that the reduction of exemptions due to international obligations would fall on all structures, and it is particularly questionable when you are talking about intervention vehicles. Above all, I think that some colleagues will share an opinion with us and that it is a matter of freight vehicles. As we know, clearly and loudly, trucks in the Republic of Slovenia are the most and most destructive roads already built. It is perfectly logical and I know that trucks have to drive somewhere and that they have to carry out traffic, but I do not know why in some foreign countries trucks load on trains and lead them to the Slovenian border, but there - foreign trucks I am talking about - go to motorways and the consequences we see today. Even when paying the toll, it seems to me that the method of payment should be adapted to the size, weight of vehicles and the consequences arising from such vehicles. I hope that, dear colleagues, you have not heard some of the logical arguments that we have all or most of these Members of the National Assembly, whether we are in the right or left political option, whether we are an opposition or a coalition. I am sure that it will be necessary to study the way in which the motorway is paid, not only because of the high number of stations, not only because prices are rising, but also because of the organisation and rationalisation of the work and because of fluidity or, above all, current traffic. I had some comments in mind that we had drawn up in the Slovenian National Party. Because you listened to me, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you. I give my word to Jozet Tank, the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present. The company for motorways and highway programs are certainly topics on which we all learn about: citizens, experts and politicians. It may be because of this particular section of the company’s work and the construction of highways in the National Assembly that we consider three or four times a year to give ourselves a shower and to prove our knowledge, ideas, reasons and concerns, as well as to point out the curves or exceptions that would necessarily need to be made to some locally exposed section. These points are a particularly grateful topic for Members, especially those covered by the coalition negotiations and the preparation of the annual programmes. Here they are given the opportunity to publicize their base through the media channels on the efforts they are making for its well-being. This has been the case at least so far in this mandate for the Infrastructure Committee, as well as for the National Assembly. So, the most suitable and grateful point for ventilation of the coalition and is also completely harmless for the "main stream" of road policies. I think that every year the National Assembly adopts three planning documents that are linked to Dars: in addition to the work programme Dars, which we currently have on the table, we also adopt an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways and the financial plan Dars. So three documents that differ only in depth and accuracy and in the perspective of processing. Despite being an opposition Member, I would only suggest that work in this area be somewhat rationalised. It would be much better to prepare a single document in a timely and qualitative manner that is of weight and real value than to deal with fragments that only wrap together and take valuable time for the preparers, the proponents and, of course, our discussers. I think that after all these years, the time has come to prepare appropriate legislative corrections and to rationalise the work of the Association for Motorways, the Ministry of Transport, the Government and the National Assembly. Although the Dars work programme shows no dynamics on individual highway sections and other segments, it is always the most basic of words about what is logical after all. It is very disturbing for us to see an additional year of delay each year in the implementation of the national programme. The year 1998 when the existing national programme was adopted, the year 2004 was set as the final year for the construction of motorways. Now, as the optimal deadline is forecasting completion between 2012 and 2015, perhaps even extreme 2018, all with a few years of addition to complete the roadside and other elements. It is amazing that such a long, long-lasting and sovereign coalition, which allegedly had little mention of the opposition during this whole period, thus had ten years of scissors and canvas, failed, despite the revisions of the national programme, to realize not half of what it so vehemently predicted and recorded in the strategic document. That's amazing! After each year in which we implement the current annual plan, the backlog increases by at least one year according to the national programme in force. This is also confirmed by our annual programmes each year. These should, according to the content, process each year more precisely from the national programme. The 2003 programme should process the content more precisely in 2003, but we are currently not included in this year's sections due to overestimation of the system's capacity in 2000, although it is true that such or other pressures on the annual programmes are also due to this year's section. However, it must be said that the whole species has been released from previous years. Years ago, I had the opportunity to meet quite often with an older gentleman, very experienced in investor business, who prepared a whole series of analyses and studies related to the necessary technical capabilities and capacities of the country's domestic operational financial capacity, necessary financial construction of resources for individual scenarios, etc. He also announced the optimal or real deadline for the construction of the highway program. Of course, given the type of assumptions - some of them I have already counted as well as the acceptable burdens of Darsa to repay. I can see that, despite all the policy efforts and, as a result, the profession is doing the programme according to his forecasts, and I also know that the policy has been made aware of his studies.We can ask ourselves where is the responsibility of the politicians who have achieved the adoption of such unrealistic projects and what else can we expect from those who have also adopted these programmes. Such a misleading policy, which so easily misleads citizens in one of the most important national projects, is not worth much. This kind and misleading promises will be paid dearly by us and our heirs. Despite the fact that experts and eminent experts are involved in the preparation of the existing scenarios and analyses and national programmes, the policy has mainly achieved abnormal repairs and short-term cuts in the construction of motorways due to short-term effects. The consequences are great not only because of encouraging unrealistic expectations of gullible citizens. The major impact has also been experienced by redistribution and take-up of petrol tolar assets, since as many as half of the funds have been made available in the budget hole and are inadvertently used for anything other than roads and motorways. Presidents of governments and ministers cannot gain confidence and respect by moving funds for unintended projects. On the contrary, we can respect them only if dedicated money is spent deliberately. Otherwise, the abuse of public funds is typical of all governments in the last few years, unless the government itself provides dedicated spending, if it is not an example of correctness and excellence, it cannot be expected of others. The institutions of control are also completely powerless and to the weak, and perhaps even illegal practices are no longer far off. Governments and their majority in the National Assembly have contributed to the heavy burden of the highway programme, which is a dedicated and affordable source of petrol tolar, which we and in good faith pay all citizens when buying fuel, compensated with substantially more expensive domestic and foreign credits; Dars is almost unable to repay them. However, the petrol tolar has disappeared into an insatiable hole and there is no control and review over the use of resources in the integrated budget. Major consequences were also felt by public finances, which had to adapt fully to the new doctrine of highway construction. And Dars, as I mentioned earlier, is in big trouble. The gifts of these debts or burdens are almost impossible to settle, and if there is no appropriate government and parliament response, the banks will start to cash out the guarantees. Therefore, there is also a need for a rebalancing, which we call domestic debt reprogramming or commitment. And these falling commitments will have to be accounted for for a decade, moved to the future and burdened to generations who may not yet know how we built highways or who led these projects. In addition to delays in the start of the construction of individual sections, the additional visibility of the programme is also an extraordinary stretch of work on individual sections, since in practice there are cases where individual sections are regulated for several years after the opening and placing on the market. In the annual and financial plans, the Dars work programme would make sense to define these activities, these later or subsequent works, and the shortcomings, as well as to reduce substantially, but not to bring the completion to five or ten years. Such a long and stretching time frame for the operation of individual sections also entails a large and unnecessary cost for an engineer who must continue to exercise permanent control over unfinished objects. There is a lot of unnecessary administration and documentation work and validation and so on. In short, there are many fronts open that needlessly burden and limit the contracting authority in order to perform the task of the investor in a high and consistent manner, and thus irritate the construction process itself. The degree of certainty and the dispersion of completed and unfinished sections does not nearly allow concessional construction and the shift of burdens to other investors, but we will have to endure for at least another decade to complete the remaining loopholes of the motorway programme. This completely eliminates the possibility of a highway crossing in our country being built in a way that does not mean that we will continue to give up something. Perhaps I would point out just one more thing, this is the toll system, here the confusion is quite perfect, because we are right because of the construction method and already not a particularly long highway cross, which has been cut too many times with toll stations and with all possible toll systems. And I think we're going to have to do something concrete here in a little while. In short, if I conclude: a highway programme needs a complete overhaul, and I hope that this will happen soon enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you. I give the word to Bogomir Vnučec for the position of the Youth Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, Director of Darsa, colleague and colleague! As has been the case in this National Assembly, we point out today in the Young Slovenia Party that in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, the sections of Pomurje are also defined within the fifth corridor as the advantages both in terms of financing and in terms of physical realization and irrespective of the internal level of profitability which is the criterion for assessing the effectiveness of investment in roads. As we can see, despite the obligation under the national programme, the urban motorway sections are still not included in Darsa's 2003 work programme and it does not appear to be in the future. In the meantime, sections in the programme are envisaged for implementation later in the national programme. Therefore, the question arises in itself, when will the remaining pomur sections or sections from the Wolf Village to Maribor come into the summer plan? The adoption of the annual programme should take into account, in particular, the coherence of the programmes with the national programme, which is certainly not the case. I would also mention the mountain part of the highway, which is undernourished compared to others, since on this part motorways are built without exit lanes, from Karavank to Vrba, without anti-group protection or in-depth protection, such as that of Radovljica, or where this anti-group fence is, strongly exits the environment and does not belong there. On the other hand, it is either disregarded or not taken into account by the local community, as it threatens to take action by the government. We believe that this is a grave act of citizens and civil will. As for the rationality of construction, it is already widely known in Slovenia that the project of construction of Slovenian motorways has created a strong highway lobby. The question is whether the country has, or is, an adult professional and has sufficient independent control over operators to prevent various manipulations and possible corruption. The cost of building highways is incomprehensible. Corruption can be a segment that, along with others, persistently auctions the construction of Slovenian highways. The second is the issue of rationalisation. Is it true that certain works are carried out rationally in the construction work? For example, in the construction of tunnels where it is necessary to remove large quantities of stones that are or are not usable. The question is whether some subcontractors here do not earn twice at the expense of the state or even three times because they do not pay the concession for the acquisition of the stone ore, as we know that others have to pay it, because they can then take it away once and then bring it back again and thus earn twice for the same thing. Of course, we expect the government, in particular, to reduce the cost of construction or to contribute to getting as many kilometres as possible for the funds we invest, and not to impose additional burdens on citizens with high tolls. And as far as tolls are concerned, to finally determine when tolls will take place in another way, or from this current to a closed one, because toll stations are still planned, but when the road is finished they will certainly not be taken into account, and, of course, this space can then be used for some other objects that are not envisaged in the project, and also the local community or citizens are not to stand in this area later on and disturb the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you, colleague grandchild. And the position of the New Slovenia delegation group, which will be presented by colleague Alojz Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u76	Dear President! The Honourable Minister and the others present! Government representatives! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Surely the road problem is something that, as some forerunners have already identified before me, we all speak; if not otherwise, at least through the glasses of the users. And I am a great user of our Slovenian roads, because I also transport twice a week on a very long route from Ormož to Ljubljana. It is certain that in 1960 we did not need highways in Slovenia, for a simple reason, because we did not have cars either. Today, however, the situation is quite different. The number of cars has increased significantly and, of course, we should also follow with rapid steps as regards the construction of motorways and fast roads. While it is true that the effects of this today are impressive construction, I could say that it is some sections of impressive construction and that the Slovenian construction profession here shows that these effects are many: that it is an increased economic growth; that it is a high level of employment when we carry out these works; that it is a higher consumption; that it is an increase in investment. However, we must find out that, in spite of all this, it can appear that, when building Slovenian motorways and fast roads, the country will simply go bankrupt if it continues to build motorways in such a way. I hope to say that the construction of the Slovenian motorway cross has obviously become too expensive and that the state of Slovenia simply cannot bear this cost by budget alone. And it's a shame that those plans were unrealistic at first. And because they were unrealistic, such an approach was taken to build the Slovenian road cross and, of course, other fast roads, with only budgetary resources and certain dedicated resources. Well, the situation today is very different. Slovenia began to be in charge of the construction of the motorway. I would like to remind you that we have recently voted in this House to guarantee Dars for more than 60 billion Slovenian Tolars. This means that the construction of Slovenian motorways will significantly extend to an unspecified, unspecified future. Some mention that the Slovenian road cross will be completed in 2010. At such a pace of construction, when we open and turn over about 20 km of motorways annually, it can be quickly calculated that the Slovenian highway cross will reach its end only there in 2016 or perhaps another year later. The question is whether we can wait that long for this growing traffic. On the one hand, we have all those effects that I mentioned earlier, and on the other hand, there is huge, huge economic damage. I'm practically afraid when I go through Troy every Friday - so here things are actually moving, they're building up, but traffic jams and all the problems that are causing it, the number of traffic accidents and all that, if you calculate it, is likely to go into large, large amounts. For more than a year, the government has been promising us in the National Assembly a rebalancing of the national highway construction programme; well, now we have started to talk about some kind of resolution. However you will call it, in fact it is necessary to amend this national council to adopt a programme so that our citizens and citizens will know when they can count on the construction of the highway or the speedy road in their region as well, in their area, because the road is certainly a prerequisite for rapid economic development, is a prerequisite for some more real regional development. I understand the Prekmurians are justifiably concerned. I understand young people from Prekmurje who protest in such a way that they sign and collect signatures as some kind of petition requiring that this road programme be implemented in the Prekmurje area more quickly than ever. I understand that they will be pleased if a country with a plan, and indeed a real plan, says we will do so in 2007, 2008 so that these hands are realistically planned. Because, as it is now, the Slovenian Highway Cross is expected to end in 2004, with the final parts in 2005, is actually impossible. Furthermore, I understand the people who are threatening to close this road by the Maribor-Hajdin road, and this can happen to us this year. I have warned several times that if this happens now, during the tourist season, we will have quick columns that will reach through Shentily perhaps to Gradac. So these people should be told when they can actually count on their problem, which is a big format problem, to be resolved. And if any road, then certainly the Maribor-Hajdin road or further to Maclja or to our border, could be built by concession; but in order to do so, the government must first submit an appropriate law to this Parliament and then, on the basis of such legal provisions, try to obtain a concessionaire to build this highway section. However, as we know, the government is neither trying nor trying to find any such solutions. I am interested as a road user when it will be built - it is probably the only level crossing in Europe where there is a road as important as the road Slovenska Bistrica-Ormož with the railway Ljubljana-Maribor. So, there's some work going on, although there's some activity in this program written in this direction, but when we look at it, there's nothing going on on the ground. I wonder when it will join the more intensive work for the construction of the Ptuj Oblast. All traffic takes place daily across only one bridge, about 40,000 vehicles crossing one bridge across the Drava River on Ptuj. So if anything happens on this bridge, then all traffic on this road stops. So, I would like to ask and appeal once again to the government to hold a debate and to bring about this change of the national programme for the construction of Slovenian roads as soon as possible. The second point already mentioned is, of course, the Slovenian toll system. Look, what's happening on our highway during this tourist season, it's basically in the sky a drinking anti-terrorist propaganda for Slovenian terrorism. How can you be a German or a Scandinavian tourist who comes, I don't know, a thousand two thousand kilometers, imagine your way to the Adriatic Sea, and then here in Slovenia waits for a few hours to pay on the highway, on these few ten kilometers of toll? Six toll front stations are placed between Šentilje and Kopro! So the government, which is still thinking about how this problem should be solved, will simply have to look at how this problem has been solved in neighbouring countries and put in place the models that are solved there. So, what's the solution? The solution is, as they did in Austria, to start paying tolls with vignettes. But not in the way it is today, because it is unacceptable for tourists to wait in Slovenia after hours. Such a tourist will avoid much in the future when he experiences it, rather than using our highway again. I'm sure of it. Or make a decision and, at points like this, simply lift these toll wounds and let this traffic through. One responsible government should be aware of this. Everything else is of course a great shame for Slovenia, because it is a great anti-propaganda for our tourism development. I'd like to mention another matter and introduce it here. What is the rationality of our highways? I was alone at work, which was built between the Comples and Lukovica, when a road tampon was built, I was surprised that the extra material was then transported back to the Lukovica quarry. Instead of driving this excess material along the route and installing it, they drove it 15, 20 km back and then transported the same material back on the same road. In this way, of course, multiple damage is done. For the first time, the road is destroyed, oil is used, it destroys the environment, it poisons the environment, and for the third time, of course, there are huge costs that are not needed. I believe those who do this have an interest, but in Dars we should only see that this matter is more rational. I would like to make another comment on the construction of our Slovenian highway cross. It is already happening that when we build these two lanes, the traffic on these two lanes is extremely concentrated. And what soon will be discovered is that the construction of the two - lanes was a misdirection. So, at least in the government, we should consider whether it would not indicate that some bulkheads, some viaducts, would actually start planning for a possible greater width in the future, so that someday in the near future, when Slovenia has more financial resources, it would be necessary to upgrade third lanes on individual sections, because sooner or later, it would seem to me that this concentrated traffic would be necessary. This way we will be faced with the fact that we have built motorways that will not be part of all this growing traffic. We will support this road programme in the hope that the government will truly keep its promise and, if it has not already done so before summer holidays, at least immediately after the holidays it will come to the National Assembly with this change, which is what you now call the resolution of the Slovenian Road Program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members. John Sponik will get his first word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government and Dars! When he gets the National Assembly in accordance with our procedure on the table, we are Members in a situation where we can also have a critical view of the current implementation of the programme itself, but again and again, by consensus, we support the construction of the highway cross in Slovenia. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be today. Ambassador Ivo Bozič already stated on behalf of the Group of Members in what and why the Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the proposed programme and, of course, what it also sees in its national design. But I'd like to start a little differently. I would like to commend the way in which Darsa's leadership has been established by the current administration, which, of course, continues the work of previous administrations. This work has brought in more softness, more dialogue, a great deal of dialogue with the municipalities, with the people, with the field. I would also like to commend the good atmosphere and communication between the Ministry, the State Secretary, the Minister and the leadership of Dars. This good cooperation is important that the key, even on the financial side and, by its consequences, the construction and technical project implemented by Slovenia in this and other decades is successfully carried forward. Such a project is not easy to run, even from a logistical point of view, so it is important that there are people in these places who work well with each other and who know how to brush off even once when there may be problems. It should also be said that the construction of the motorway cross is a major challenge and proof that Slovenia has a very good construction operation, that it is in international calls - which is right that Dars has also left foreign contractors in place, which was important also because of the price. However, it has been shown that there is a great deal of technical knowledge and experience in Slovenian construction operations. The implementation of this project also proves that Slovenia also has very good construction engineering and that the continuation of this project is also a confirmation of the construction profession itself. I would also like to say this because right now, in these years there may be one of the most professionally demanding projects in the building, this is viaduct on the Black Kal, as well as a very complicated tunnel in a geologically very difficult structure under the Trojans. As it is said, this project for the construction of the highway cross is also specific because when we drive through Slovenia, we notice that performers or subscribers always, if possible, listen to citizens and citizens and municipalities; you know what I mean - when looking for routes, when looking for modern ways to keep the noise of highway flows from the quality of the stay. And that's why this project is more expensive. So it's a question of where the line is. However, as a country, I think we are capable of finding a way to live qualityly along Slovenian highways. The third issue is the concept. The petrol tolar is in some ways the original Slovenian model, which has proved to be good. It is true - and here we also support the Government's intention, as my colleague Bozič has already mentioned - to include in the financing of the current national programme the real financial opportunities that the Republic of Slovenia has to build the necessary motorway network and to optimise the resources for its financing. Here it must be said that this is a strategic issue of tolls that will be entangled in solutions in the European Union. I am convinced, however, that it may also be the historical duty of us who are legislators today to allow such solutions, that future generations and generations can also be marketed when, through a geostrategic part of Slovenian territory, we roll the truffles of cars, I hope, and not so many trucks, because we expect that in the next ten years, at least some of the freight traffic will be diverted to the railways - that is, or we will know how our sons and daughters will be able to market when Europeans and other nations move through the Slovenian corridors. This is also a political issue. I'm going to conclude with a dilemma that opens up here more than once, and my colleague Sok mentioned it. It says that construction is too expensive, but at the same time it wants to be completed as soon as possible and mention some sections that are urgently needed for construction. One thing and the other is important, but she's in conflict with herself. Or the dilemma of what to do with the tourist season. When I was on the roads in Germany recently and waited hours and hours for construction operations, the Germans are exactly the same, the Italians are exactly the same. When you're building a system as big as the highway system, and when you're using existing corridors of roads for corridors, unfortunately it's not without closures. I also think that even European tourists sometimes accept this more easily than Slovenia. Therefore, it is also important first of all that Dars finds all the ways that these stoppers are as small as possible, and where they happen, so it is necessary that we simply tell the public that there is no other way. I want this plan to be successfully implemented this year, and we also look forward to a resolution in the National Assembly on the national highway programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you. Rudolf Petan now has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Well, my colleagues have already said a lot, and there's no point in repeating it. Maybe we could look at this program from another angle, maybe a more specific one. If highways are needed, this probably doesn't have to be lost words, we all agree. However, we can also look at the highways a little differently. Motorways are also a condition for the development of a country, if we want, from the Slovenian case also a condition for the development of certain regions. It is not only direct aid to an undertaking, as is now much said, that is expected and done, but, above all, if we look from a long-term perspective, it is certainly a good road infrastructure, as well as some other, but road certainly is a long-term aid to development in a region. We have set priorities - of course, I speak here in the first person of plurality, but I exclude myself because my point of view was a little different, but nothing about it, now it is so - that in fact these priorities are no longer priorities, but we have at all ends of the building and we have given everyone something. This, of course, has its own good and also its bad side. It is true that we have a bunch of construction sites, we are all kind of satisfied, in our end something is being done, but it is from the point of view of nationality another chapter. But we're moving on. The fact is that those who have this opportunity to observe activities in individual buildings on a weekly basis can be observed, without special experts being that the intensity of work in individual construction sites is a direct function of the current situation in public finances; or, in other words, the health function of public finances, regardless of the fact that we have a motorway tolar dedicated to the construction of motorways, we have credits that are strictly dedicated, and that we have honors that I think are also able to say are strictly dedicated. Construction work reminds us of a car that runs out of gas after miles and then, of course, it stops and, of course, it gets its own money to buy gasoline, and then things run out again. What am I trying to say? The fact is that the government, obviously with these dedicated money or, specifically, the finance minister, distributes exactly as health in public finances. If he needs money to patch holes in a third area, he takes money from the minister in this area and, of course, patches those holes. But to the minister who covers the highway area, and then he says, "Yeah, well, you're still doing a bad job, and nothing's moving." That's not right, not fair, not even to government relations themselves. This is a problem of the ruling coalition, but to the citizens, who pay for each litre of petrol for the purpose of building motorways, when we pay the toll, even in good faith that the toll is so expensive because we give it for the highway, and then we can find out that this area, strictly dedicated to the field, is leaking money to cover some other financial budget gaps. I would only mention the construction site that I know best, which is under the Trojans, so to speak, from Troyan to Blagovica. I must say that the last 14 days, and this is exactly in line with the announced austerity measures - that is to say public finances are also publicly recognised as having problems - it is moving a little bit. But I have to say, for the last six months, it's been really intense there, and it's been a pleasure to watch this section. Today, I've been thinking about it for the last few days, and it's been a little less since this short break opened. I hope it's only for a short time. I would also like to say that this passage against the Trojans and against Styria, Koroška and Prekmurje is what I think it is, not because it is an international corridor, but because it actually connects Slovenia to a whole, and it seems to me that this is the most important section and therefore I simply cannot understand why exactly northeast Slovenia must always be the first to strike, which must give some solidarity to patching up public finances and somehow make it easier for the finance minister. The fact is, of course, there is not enough money in this area, as it is elsewhere, but I do not understand why to collect tolls is as it is. In these seven years, since I have been here in Parliament, I have asked at least 20 questions about tolls. In the previous term, a lot of times. Why is that and whether this is in line with the European Union's guidelines, which somehow passes on to a closed system, is what you pay as much as you spend. But in this document, we see that toll stations will continue to build. But as far as I can tell, they're gonna be building toll stations. That is how it will happen, what colleague Rupar pointed out on Monday on the question of parliament that we are a country where we have a leading toll station of 30 kilometres, which is nowhere else in Europe. I am not saying that this is true, but it seems that this will be the case if these documents hold that the intensity of building toll stations, as defined in the document, will increase further. I'd be very happy to find out it's not meant to be, but I'm afraid it will be. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. In fact, such a system allows us to somehow avoid paying the toll. The fact is that only those who are precisely in the place where the toll station is, we have to pay for every kilometer of toll and otherwise they can drive from Drava to Vranski without paying the toll. After all, it doesn't bother me, but then I don't know why we're from the Dravinjska Valley, the Slovenian Horses, but we have to pay every mile. That's not right; and not just that. Freight traffic also escapes from Slovenski Bistrica from the highway or from Slovenski Konjica they go down and then drive by somehow avoiding toll payment. And we are beaten twice at this end: for the first time because we have to pay every kilometer, and for the second time, because there are additional columns of vehicles rolling through our neighborhoods that could otherwise be on the highway if the exes paid. Of course, it's not a sin from now on, it's been going on ever since it was adopted - I think ten years ago - because someone wanted to have local traffic on the highway and they didn't have to pay the toll. Of course, this has nothing to do with today's current, current, current ministers, and I must say this, and I must be so correct. But the fact is, this is happening. And that last flower on the whole thing. A few days ago, a very short section was opened, I think, 60 kilometers near Blagovica, and there is a mile from joining a highway built from the highway. I don't know, I notice that there's something going on that goes down there those who want to avoid paying the toll that's a mile ahead. It is true that there is also import up there, but only for Ljubljana. This is how it happens, and I was able to see about it today when all the trucks turned onto the highway, and after a mile they joyfully turned down and avoided the payment of the toll. I mean, in this payment for the use of the highway is money and this money is about building highways and I just don't understand that we have such a system that somehow even rewards those who speculate with it and don't want to pay for motorways instead of being forced. Of course, there are also measures, and I admit it, the police are in control and so on, but why does someone else have to deal with it if they can elegantly solve it behind a closed system? As far as I know, the European Union's guidelines are to get everything on the highways within a certain period of time. I've asked this at least ten times in this National Assembly, but I've always received an evasive answer, so now I'm quite happy to see the ministry's representatives nodding. It is said that something is on it, and I hope that something will be done in this direction as well. It is not that now those who do not pay should pay, but that we will all have equal conditions and that the country will get more money to build motorways. In fact, we all lose, if possible, some of us are happy at a certain point because we avoid paying tolls, but in the long run this is not good. On the other hand, the Ministry covering this area does not have permanent financial conditions, especially when it somehow breaks down in the budget register. As it appears - now I can be wrong, but I think that - the resources for the construction of motorways are directly dependent on the health of public finances and that there is a great outflow that is, of course, carried out by the Minister of Finance, which, of course, does not have an easy task; but, unfortunately, this is how it happens and then, of course, critics also fly to the departments that are not to blame. The fact is that this transfer of funds, I mentioned three sources, credits, compensations for the use of the motorway and a dedicated tolar that they are in this common treasury with which it is available in the light of current needs. That's what I wanted to point out: that's not good. This should not be the case, because the construction of highways is not, I don't know, baking jams, where we can stop the process when we burn one round, construction sites are not a simple matter and maintenance of construction sites costs something even if nothing happens. That is why such delays should not take place and I should appeal to the government, even though only the representatives of this ministry who are at the time of the impact may be at the Finance Minister's disposal to see this matter differently. What is earmarked cannot be used for the current needs. Of course, it would be the wish of everyone that the ministry covering the construction of motorways would have more stable funding conditions to make it easier to work would plan. But since it's not just this ministry, it's a country where highways are built, it could be built more stable, but not to have, as I mentioned earlier, a car that's running out of gas, and then we're collecting money. Gasoline should be available at all times, so the funds must be made available at all times. Because highways are more important than just giving, as we've heard before, I don't know, 1% or 2% in social product growth, but it means in the long run it's also a long-term development factor. Without this, we are likely to be surrounded by all the world's currents, at least by European flows, and we will, if I say so on the railway, on the side track, which is not good in any way, if that means literally or transposed. My aim was to point out this volatility of financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Now I give the word to Leopold the Kremlin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Many times, when we talk about motorways or roads in general, of course we also mix some long-term documents and some programmes, which are, to put it this way, short-term, because they are annual programmes. Here, too, when we talk about the work programme of the company for motorways, we speak much wider than this is just an annual programme, but this is kind of normal because road construction is not an issue that could somehow be placed in a year. That is why this broader debate, as well as my debate, goes in the direction of thinking at least two problems. As a problem, I see that there are a little too few words in this programme for my taste about it, because we have already heard on the Committee that something more is actually in preparation, as it is written in the programme, I am a little disturbed that it is not in the programme. I am talking about pyrus highway or work to say so between the Austrian-Slovenian border and the Croatian-Slovenian border. This is a matter that is undoubtedly for all traffic reasons, but not only domestic but also other large ones, one of the most important moves of Slovenian highway construction, which, in some period before 10, 15, 12 years ago, has been politically stalled due to some very strange thoughts about the fact that roads are directly connected to politics, which, of course, has never been, but cannot be, and it also appears in this case, that it cannot be. In short, the matter will be necessary and done very quickly. As it is said, not only because of internal, Slovenian problems, but they are immeasurable. There has already been a lot of talk about this, and it is probably not necessary for me to repeat it myself, but the real problem is extremely big. And if it happens to us - I hope that it will not happen to us - what colleague Sok has already announced that can happen, we will be in real trouble. I'm talking about the possibility they're talking about - the closure of the road and so on. Of course, I don't want that to happen to myself because it doesn't solve things. But a solution must be offered and this solution must be indicated in each programme, including this. It's partially misplaced, I think it's too small, because it's too small in the part where it talks about how we're going to build this road. We don't have it in any programme, we don't actually have the money planned for this matter, which means we need to find a different model. And this different model should, in my opinion, be seen in this programme somewhere and we should probably talk about it briefly today, or within everything else, too. This is the first comment on this year's programme we are talking about. The second comment has also been mentioned many times, these are the unfortunate tolls that we have all discussed so far, I think we talked about or were talking about, and I will talk about it myself. We actually have an impossible system. I would like to say that it is not the fault of these people sitting here today as representatives of Darsa and the Ministry that the blame is much wider and has a long tail. Of course, the system is completely impossible, it is impossible from an ecological point of view, it is also impossible from a financial point of view, it is impossible from a traffic - it is better not to repeat what has already been said in this regard. But what bothers me is that there's nothing written in this program but that we're going to build some more toll stations. I hope I haven't missed anything yet, but I don't think there's anything else written. That we have an entirely impossible system, that we have a mixed, so-called closed-open system, that we had a closed system in Styria - let alone a little before our own threshold of sweep - but that, by the will of many politicians, and I don't know how otherwise influential people have been changed into what we have today; that in the meantime we have demolished two or three frontal toll stations, because it was impossible for them to be two toll stations at eight kilometres. If someone went to recalculate how much money we had because of these delusions of some people - and these people were largely not sitting there in these institutions - started not to talk about standing columns of cars, especially now in the tourist season, and so on and so forth. That we have employed people, which is good to be employed, but that we can do something else, does not necessarily mean that they sit in those influences. In short, the system is impossible. At the same time, new toll systems are being developed in Germany, Austria. The only thing I would like to say about this and what I miss about this programme is that I don't want them to re-invent a new Slovenian system. Please don't! Someday this Europe will have one toll system, it can't be different, and it will be a common system. And believe me, if the Germans - not because they would be passionately in love with the Germans, but the Germans, if they are now introducing the toll system first for the trucks, like the Austrians, and then for everything else, it is based on some agreements and research. And, of course, we're gonna have to join in. It will be impossible for us to have a system up to our limit, but someone else will continue to exist. Because that's probably not what any of you are expecting. Why am I talking about this? I am speaking because I would like this programme to write already this year that we are dealing with this idea, to think and plan how we will join this system, so that it is perfectly clear to me and we do not have to answer that it is not yet fully agreed within Europe. But some guidelines have been made, and I would really ask that something be done in this area this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to ask you to understand, some adjustments within the announcements have been made, so that I will take this into account in the overall planned time, and we will not leave this track. I give the word to France Rokavac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Today we are talking about an agreement to Darsa's programme of work for 2003. So what we're talking about is money worth 133 billion, which is actually a very large sum, given the amount that's being heard. Otherwise, given the need to complete the motorway programme, it is likely that there is not enough. But it is so likely at this point our country's ability to actually reach into this largest project at the end of the second millennium and also the first decade of the third millennium. As has already been said today, motorways also mean a developmental perspective for many Slovenian areas. The fact is that here, as well as Dars himself, the company for the construction of motorways, as well as the Ministry, has become fully involved in trying to provide the local communities with appropriate responses to the comments that are in the individual areas. Nevertheless, today I would point out only the question that Slovenia is not only north-south, east-west, but that there are some parallel areas here that do not benefit from the construction of motorways. At this point, whether we admit it or not, other state roads in this country are suffering. They suffer from maintenance and investment. A particular issue is in those areas which are in some ways partly cut off from the world, which are linked to parallel state roads. I will only mention something: Savlje, then in connection with Posav or then another option, how to get to Posovje, then if we go on, Koroška and so on. There is a programme of parallel state roads, which are a parallel programme of the highway program. At the beginning of 1996, 1998, these state roads also had some of that money, and I'm not willing to take that money, which was so little in the highway program. However, I believe that it would also be necessary to ensure priorities within the State budget in those areas, which, by regulating the road cross in Slovenia, will still be cut off and they will also need a regulated road link if they are to offer equal opportunities for equal development in this area in the future and at the same time ensure the equitable development of Slovenia. Last but not least, I read in Del today that the link between the road link in Dolenjska, Beach-Trebnje-Brastje, is mainly this problem between Korenitska and Pluska, where the government has already adopted the location plan, and the municipality of Trebnje and, of course, the locals oppose it and even carried out the roadblock on Saturday. They also anticipate the continuation of these prisons. I think it would probably make sense for Members to be more aware of why there has been this greater short contact on this route. And another issue, which concerns a concrete decision on consent itself. If this agreement is not reached, then the realization of 7 and a half billion of this money can also be questionable - between the state and the congregation. I think it would make sense to come up with an appropriate solution here as soon as possible, probably after one year for both sides. Indeed, the fact is that the valley section also urgently needs the construction of the motorway as well as all the other three in Slovenia. Finally, there is only one brief comment, probably also so that the programme can be implemented even faster in the future. We adopted the 2003 budget in December 2002. We accept or agree to this programme again before holidays, as we do every year. There's probably too long of a procedure here, and it would probably make sense to shorten it. This would also allow for greater flexibility in the implementation of the planned programme, which is carried out annually by the Company for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Ivan Mamić now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. There's been a lot of talk today, which I've been meaning to talk about, and it's a shame about words. I'd like to mention things that haven't been started yet. In fact, if this table is now published for a few sections, which is 104.2 kilometers; of course, some parts are already possible at the end, some are in the middle, at the beginning and so on, so that I don't know how much is made of it, but the rest is to be done, after what is envisaged after spending money, much. And now what's left over, and if I use that formula that I have -- the data that costs a mile of highway 2,000 thousand, pardon, 2 billion, then we're left with a billion million dollars for these sections to spend every mile. Now, whether it's true or not, I don't know. These are just my, uh, approximate calculations. But most of all, I'm worried about the fact that it's supposed to be 51 billion of its own resources, 81 of its own, and so on. So 38 percent of own resources and 62 percent of loans. So far, the consumption for motorways was mainly from own resources, and I think of the so-called petrol tolar, tolls and so on, according to the tables I had available before one, two years ago, up to 56 percent. Forty-four percent of the other funds. How is it that all of a sudden this relationship breaks in favor of the loan? I can't understand it at all. Now, if we're talking about these own resources, I'm going to mention the gas tolar once again, because I don't have another term. So far this so - called gas tolar has been used, about 50 percent or about 30 billion tolars a year. This year it's 37, last year it was, I think, 33 and so on, the previous years were 27, 28. Mostly, about 30 billion tolars came from a gas tolar. From the tolls, as far as they were used, I don't know, but that means if these funds were 56 percent, the total investment for each year was about 70 billion. I speak globally, on average and so forth. Now, if the mile of the highway was under 2 billion as assured to me by Secretary of State Vidic, who is here with us, it means that some money has disappeared because there are simply not so many kilometres. Mr. Secretary even told me the mile is a billion. And then these numbers go into my head, and I don't know what that means. Because if that were true at such a price, the highway program would be at an end by now. These are the facts. That's math. I have also asked, and I am still asking, and I am going to ask, Members' questions; only, surprisingly, I always get some strange answers that don't match at all, neither with the data I have on my computer from Dars, nor with the data we have in the Rapporteur, and so on and so forth, that I will not be proposing now. I also see what I personally saw, that the highway program was sometimes done without any supervision. In fact, I think you had a very, very bad, unfortunate hand in choosing a designer, at least the one who worked in the Vipavska Valley: five underpasses and six overpasses were made on the bad five kilometers - five kilometers! So every half-mile is such an object that I don't know how much it costs. [[I can also say a few million - I don't know, I'm talking about]] . Then this Mr. Designer even allowed himself to make the undercarriage to bring that regional road into the slums, and when it comes under the highway, it has another 50 meters left, right and then climbs the hill and so on - what? And also on this road he arranged the left turn - where the settlements are, there is not in any settlement of the left howl! That's when I warned Mr. Shent when I was a saint in the Ajdov congregation about these things. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And he said no one would teach him how to design a highway, and so on. Now I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u87	Time's up, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u88	Then I'll call again if there's any time left to finish the matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u89	As you can see, time is up. Thank you very much. He will now be given the word Jože Ašič, followed by his colleague Bogdan Barovic, who fell off the list by mistake and was registered in writing. Please, Comrade Joža Ašič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you, and a nice hello to you all! In fact, it’s kind of fun to listen to what we’re talking about today when we discuss the work of a highway company for this year. Obviously, it is not clear to all of us that we are discussing the programme of the company for motorways, which follows the adoption of the annual programme for the development and maintenance of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. All that we are talking about today has actually been accepted. Today we are discussing how the company for motorways will implement the annual programme adopted, endorsed and uploaded by the National Assembly. In fact, we talk at least three times in the National Assembly about motorways: when we adopt the budget and when we determine how many petrol tolls for highways, how many for other roads; then we talk about the annual programme and then we talk about the work programme for society. Each of these has its own legitimacy. The budget is the budget, the annual programme follows the commitment under the national programme, and this report is based on the law establishing Dars or the company for motorways. Perhaps we would like to think in the future about something changing, for obviously we repeat stories several times that we do not need to repeat, but we need to accept it once and then during the year. We are talking about whether it is turning left or right; in fact, it is a completely irrelevant debate, as far as this is concerned. However, I think today would be particularly good to take advantage of to discuss and agree on when we will get a change of the national programme at the tables. At the same time, I would like to say that this is not a resolution, because the resolution is an act by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which adopts the national programme and that in this national programme we fix or upgrade what we are missing - that is the Maribor-Ptuj-Gruškovje motorway, and that it links the motorways to Jelshana, and perhaps some parallel road and fine, if the national programme for the development of state roads could also be considered in this package. Because this is where we have different debates. Today's debates also took place in this direction, where there were different ideas on how to connect Koroška with Zasav and so on. I think it is an integral part of the debate on road transport in Slovenia and it would be right to face these issues in the national assembly for once, because it is certainly true that not only are motorways but all road connections and connections to the road cross of the Republic of Slovenia are important. In my debate, all I wanted to stress was that I expect to receive this national programme in a short time with all the necessary changes. Of course, I have no doubt about the work programme of the company for motorways that we will also accept today, because it is actually an operational act of those documents that we have already adopted in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you, Josie Auschwitz. Now Bogdan Barovich has the word, and after him Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you. I won't be long, I won't repeat anything, not even the smart one that was said today. But I'd like to warn you about the following. The Republic of Slovenia has lost huge revenue by not joining the construction of the two-track railways, since the fifth corridor has left economically and the revenue, huge, is being paid on the railway area today by Italy and the port of Trieste. I hope and I wish that this did not happen in the road area. Road crossings and road links are not only important and only because of us and our connections, tourists, but also for entry into transit and freight corridors that bring huge money, assistance to the port of Koper and many others. Another time. In addition to talking about the highway, it is true that the development of other roads is important. And if we look closely at section 2.1.8, paragraph 1 speaks only of the development of those regional roads that will temporarily take over the tasks of an unbuilt highway network. Which means that this moment is still at stake in road development, including the remaining roads of the same rank. And I would also like to draw attention to section 4.1.3, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am concerned, and here I would ask both Dars and the Ministry not to do what is stated in 4.1.3: "The company will also seek to borrow loans with such a manual and a moratorium on the principal's repayment and on the selection of favourable interest rates and measures that will make it possible to recover principals and other liabilities from the projected flows of tolls in the coming years." That's understandable. "In the event that the toll flows would not be sufficient to pay the liabilities of credits, other inflows will also be used, including the means to build motorways." I sincerely hope that this will not be the case. I think it's too late to get into the correction, to fix this indent. By doing so, well, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are not and will not do anything. The money we use to build highways will be paid for the principals and then we will hire new loans to pay the loans and we will lose the roads. I promise I came by today the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! When the government in this country took over the current LDS-led coalition - that was 12 years ago - I think they promised that this year, which we are discussing, the road programme for the next 15 years, would no longer be the debate in the National Assembly, because, after the promises made at the time, this programme should end somewhere in these years. Now the completion of the highway no one sees the end or hopes to predict it - delays as resonant power are imposed on each other. One would expect an ever-increasing machinery in Dars and the state road lobby to be reflected in ever-increasing and cheaper sections of highways. Sorry, it's not like that. It is true that more difficult and more expensive sections are being built at the moment, but we also do not somehow notice that the rate of construction would increase substantially or particularly bother me that I do not actually know the case when the budget prices would hold up. Comrade Podobnik praised almost exemplary relations within the Transport Ministry and the Transport Lobby. I agree with the Minister's human qualities, I know him well, but that doesn't mean everything is in order in his back. He knows enough about the backdrops of human quality to be abused. And I have to say, when we're working on this program, we're going to have to compare ourselves with each other. And I must say that we witnessed in neighbouring Croatia this year, a month ago, or a little less, the opening of 160 or more kilometres of highways. Construction in the neighbouring country has intensified tremendously, and I must say it is obviously effective. I'd like someone to serve me with a price comparison analysis. They have heavy sections, very heavy. And I don't know if the Slovenian state is so weak, Slovenian knowledge is so bad that something more than twice the size of the country boasts with eight times the size of a highway in one year. Here I wonder whether the decision of the government we had at the previous point would not be in one of the previous points that some companies would be expected by a strategic partner and by a strategic partner. Are you also Slovenian road operatives, including Dars, not worthy of a strategic partner who will take care of better benefits? So far, we have been convinced that everything is supreme, but here in this national assembly, both the opposition and the position, we have been critical many times. And you need to be critical. Look, that's why I'm gonna ask some questions. Here was a commendation, this, in paragraph 2, second paragraph, that Dars eliminates or cancels an invitation to tender if someone has given way too much. I'm just wondering if this is also a cover-up for a number of calls to be cancelled and for pre-destined tenderers to learn something about the level of bids in the previous round. Now, in this regard, I ask, did the second opening of offers for the railway company of Prague succeed? I do not want to take too long, because on this section I am here in Parliament for a seven-year delay, an eternal postponement and did not apologize for not starting construction physically this year. I don't want to! And there must be no excuse for the reasons behind the paper war. Second of all, I'm curious, I don't really see the solution to the Stairs ending. To Maribor, the highway. The highway in Maribor ends blindly. And all the traffic that passes Ljubljana also appears there, on the Styrian section. Now I ask whether there is still the same reason that these Styria sections are machetely treated to the corridor through Maribor nirešci. We know that former Minister Bergauer should not have been, at the express request of the LDS, more ministers because he knew and insisted on the highway program for the Stairway. You handled this politically well, but to the detriment of the Styrian gave way. Where is an apology that at some point, say, in Maribor they can easily choke on traffic or here at this part. All these sections are fed. I understand the Mariborians, I understand Prekmurce, I understand the Ptujcans that there is no progress. And, gentlemen, if you know within the means find the dynamics of the construction of Croatian highways, then this problem will be solved earlier by Croatia they set you a strong mirror. It will be necessary to respond to the image in this mirror. Of course, funding, credit and so on is crucial in this programme. We know that we owe ourselves enormously in this area, but I don't know if we've built huge sections of highways; if there's a proportion here; if the generations behind us don't give us a bill that was too little for the amount of money done. This, of course, raises questions about the control of these transactions, possible corruption issues, unfortunately, even this report does not explain the 'disket issue'. Finally, we should be able to explain in these services what was going on, for what purposes, for what money, and so on. Finally, it would touch items 4.1.4, other sources. It is stated here that in 1996 Dars concluded a contract with the Municipality of Ljubljana on the co-financing of the construction of the Malence-Šentjakob-Zadorova-Tomačevo motorway section. The Ljubljana Municipality co-financed $18 million, but this is a section that is known by the highest standards, because it is only in Ljubljana and, with the largest index of deviations from the budget value, as far as I know it. 200 and such indices have appeared! This seems to have been very well co-financed by the Municipality of Ljubljana, since the derogations were significantly higher in my opinion than these millions. It is known that there have been abnormal things here, that for protection, excessive care for protection, excessively on technical grounds, water installed quality stainless steel pipes, dimensions, I do not know - fi 500, fi 700, from material such as dairy, milk industry, food industry. It's known, it's been an affair, never cleared. And, gentlemen, if Ljubljana has actually been able to build much more for my low co-financing, we insist that other parts of Slovenia are treated the same way, but not in this sense, I do not want you to build superstandards, and I do not want you to waste money to "chafle" money as it is here in this section. However, to build those sections that are more in need of traffic, I have already counted some sections in Styrian and Mariborian work, the Bistrian work. And because these transport solutions will bring more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you. My colleague, Geza Juban, now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Chairman. The debate on the document, such as the annual highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia - is very interesting, is important. It is no wonder that in this kind of debate Parliament is a slightly different manifesto and you get the feeling that it is not only 15 mayors, but that there are many of them, close to 90, and that we are all discussing strongly locally - I will probably not be anything else - and that we are critical of the programme that some of us have been experiencing for many years, since 1993, we are pleased with it or not for reasons that I will not completely repeat, because I have done so many times. Perhaps this time I will act for many as a wit, who can see the story a little differently or a little more optimistic. We, in the gloomy part, deal with a variety of stories where, say, Prekmurci will never experience having highways, including their children. We have collected 18,000 signatures, it is said that a referendum can take place if we gather more, because the question is: did you want to build a highway in Prekmurje as well? This must, of course, concern us as Members to look at the documents and physical implementation of the programme, which is, above all, ahead of us today. On pages 11, 12, things are a little bit different, and they're almost like me. This is the part where I say maybe I'm a wit, unlike those who are critical. I've been critical all the time to those parts, including, say, the Ljubljana bypass. Those of you from the first reference remember that we forced these eighteen million dollars, of which colleague Jerovšek found that just what happened happened happened. And, of course, the most important part is that those who are able to see their construction sites, even here today we had a story when it is said that in Prekmurje there is no highway building at all; of course, this time we must be realistic and also look at the construction sites as far as they are, and it is my satisfaction that we may indeed open the first section of the highway this year. But that's what you've been experiencing for ten years, the sample part is open, but that's the causal part that helped transport the town of Murska Sobota. This does not mean a highway, but it does mean that, despite everything, we have experienced somewhere in the fall, that the first section of the highway opens and that the dynamics continue as envisaged by the annual and national programmes. I wish that - and so, of course, I will do all the voting, I will support this, and in the balance, as far as we want or have to experience it - there will be no change as it has been set up so far, and that what some of us are also threatening to experience, perhaps then, the continuation of the sections I am talking about by 2015, etc. I want to say that, on one side of the highway is extremely important, I do not agree with the fact that national income is less important than highways. If there is no cash income, the highway will not be, or at least not to that extent, as it is being built. It is of course important for every environment that depends on it, especially those that are economically as much in trouble as our end, and that, of course, then at least the pace that we agreed on years ago does not change significantly and that would then continue. In short, I will support this programme and I want to be in the future as I have said that the dynamics of the national programme will not change in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you, Gezi Juban. Now I will give my word as you are announced and present in the Chamber. Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'm a little surprised that I've been in line so quickly or no matter what, I'd like to say hello to Mr Minister and Prime Minister Dars, and I'm going to try to stick to my debate on today's agenda. I would like to say what I am about to say now that this would be a modest contribution to improving the programme or a modest contribution to improving Dars' performance, so I would like to draw attention to some of the things that further show how to take into account in the further operation of Dars, both in the year we are talking about today and in the future. Undoubtedly, the organisation and management of previous works, the preparation and production of investment programmes and project documentation is one of the key parts that Dars encounters and which is not cheap is very expensive and very important for the successful construction of the motorway programme. Here the administration, here Dars directly and indirectly encounters the acceptability of individual projects in different local environments. I hope to say that this acceptability is directly proportional to the implementation of the agreements that Dars has concluded in the past with similar local environments in which motorways were situated and where the construction of motorways has already been completed. I hope to say that the complexity of the procedures is that all these procedures are also more costly because negative experiences are being passed on to new environments as a result of unrealised agreements and promises with local communities. I would therefore like to propose to the administration of Dars to pay only a little more attention to this area and also, I will say, one projection, one review of this, one assessment of what the so-greater costs associated with mistrust in some local environment in placing the following projects, compared to the costs that Darsa would have had if it had fulfilled the promises made to the local communities in the past. These promises are quite a few things. I will not discuss specific matters on purpose. However, I think that very, even pricey, have a negative impact on the way in which motorways are being built in the future. The same is true of unfinished works. When we adopted the annual highway construction programme for the Republic of Slovenia for this year, we met in the annual programme with sections that have been completed for six, seven years, and you are still in business or still Dars is finishing the construction of these sections. I also think that because of this, and because of the slow pace of the completion of individual road sections, it happens that these road sections in the final stage are probably more expensive than they normally could be. I expect that there will also be some deadline in this work programme for the completion of individual road sections, which would certainly help to rationalise the construction of motorways. As no important source of financing for the construction of motorways, I say that economic governance with over-bought land has also remained left and right after the construction of the highway. I must say, I miss this in your work programme. This, in addition to the fact that in the environments where these lands are located, we are also faced with the fact that it is easy to offer after the purchase of these land, despite the adoption of a government regulation allowing you to have an answer to the offer after the purchase, I will say, not to some free transfer to the local community, which would be too ideal, but to offer purchases of such land, which are important for the realisation of some crafts or other areas which, as a result, arise at the highway crossing, and cannot be answered, so these lands remain unused there and Dars directly cancels off the proceeds of the sale of these land. Last but not least, I would like to strongly wish that in the work programme, we are already too late for this year, but probably in the following year, we will also make one final decision, in what way and how to enable interested parties to put notice tables on the existing motorway network. I come from Savinijska Valley, where this process of setting up guidance tables for natural sights and cultural historical sights, such as the cave of Hell, the Roman necropolis, the Mozirski Gaj, where these procedures are unreasonably complicated and simply no decision is taken, which is the worst thing that can be done. I think that this possibility of setting labelling tables is also part of the social acceptability that I think you are not following enough, and would also make it easier for you to put new motorway sections into space. Just one more sentence, Mr. Vice President, if you'll excuse me. I also read this to transfer to a toll company for highway management. I think it would suggest, from an economic point of view, that we check how it is managed to operate at toll stations, especially in terms of transport costs to work. Here are some incomprehensible things that happen to manage relatively simple administrative work, collect tolls, people drive many miles to work, and all this goes to the cost of work, which is not understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The next panellists are next. Blaž Kavčič, followed by Anton Anderlič and Davorin Terčon. Please, Blaž Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At the end of last year, Dars ran 353 kilometers of highways. That's a big one. More importantly, during the period 1994 - 2002, Dars built a good 250 km highway. Respect is valuable and especially interesting to us, of course, the number that we Slovenians have dedicated to this investment is €587 million. These are data that are also very important from a national point of view. However, in order to be able to properly assess them, because there were a number of critical tones that could be partly justified, perhaps exaggerated to be able to figure that out, of course, we need to look at what the Slovenians got for this huge investment. 250 kilometers of new highways. Is that economic or not? If we look at it in more detail, we can find that a mile of highway, four lanes, cost us 9.7 million euros, that the fast road cost us 6.1 million euros a kilometer, that it cost us 2.1 million euros to build two lanes, etc. On average, therefore, we spent €6.5 million per kilometer of these types of motorways. Once again, you need to know what that means. A simple comparison in the European space is possible only if we divide these types of motorways a little bit into basic categories. If we first looked at the most common part of the flat work, we could build highways in Slovenia for about €3 and a half million per kilometre, while European averages range from €3.8 million to €12 million. So here, comparisons are relatively beneficial. On the hilly terrain, however, the ranges are greater. In Slovenia from 6.2 to 21 and in the European Union from 5 to 23.8 million euros. Without going into all the details, we can already find out on the basis of these relations that there are quite a number of reasons for the thesis that we have so far managed to build motorways relatively cost-effectively, but it is likely that in the future a slightly more detailed comparison could also be analysed in the reports for all Members. It is especially interesting to look at one specific object. The Black Kal already mentioned, if the data I was able to obtain holds us, the square meter of construction of this respectable facility costs about 700 euros. If this information is correct, I believe that it is, it appears, that we are building motorways in Slovenia very economically because this price per square meter is within the lower limit of European analysed investments. This is one part of this national project. But the other side is how we did it and how we're going to work with resources. Sources must, of course, take account of generational justice. And that's what I'd like to point out in particular. Motorways are an infrastructure facility that will serve later generations for decades. Therefore, in addition to those sources that burden current generations of Slovenians, it is essential to install such types of resources into a financial structure that will be more time-consumingly stretched so that, such as good, emerging ones, it is said, the credits arising from this infrastructure facility, including burdens, will be distributed in a fair and fair manner. Therefore, the proposal already under consideration, which paves the way for the issuance of bonds and other financial instruments, is not only acceptable, but in my view even the necessary source or essential element of the financial financing structure. It's about priorities. I think she's too bile here sometimes. I would risk making a statement that every kilometer we've managed to build so far has been needed, and we can be happy to have it. Every kilometer we plan is necessary, and we'll be happy to have it. Then there are priorities where views can vary slightly. Personally, I think there have been some shortcomings in the development so far. The fundamental flaw for me is that the project we call the road cross still runs out of focus. This won't be a highway cross until we finish the Shentvid-Kosese facility. Only with this Šentvid-Kosese facility will it be possible to say for the whole of Slovenia that we have a highway cross in the center. That is why I also expect Dars and the Ministry to continue their activities in the future as soon as possible in the implementation of this core work. However, another problem that we have and which is put into particular perspective is Slovenia's entry into the European Union, where the problems of those border regions that are too weakly linked to central Slovenia are particularly highlighted in the case of the motorway cross. I especially highlight the problems of Cerkljansko, Tolminsko, Bovske - these are the areas that are farthest from the highway cross and which are urgently attached to the highway cross through Sevska, Poljanska Valley and Škofjeloško. This is essential, or these border regions will be removed from Europe's embrace because of the disconnection with the central Slovenian space. Just a thought about tolling. If we debated it ten years ago, I'd be very attracted to those who think about vignettes. As it is now 2003, I think it is worth reminding that many European countries, with vignettes and no vignettes, are thinking about tolling systems in terms of kilometre consumption. This is a system that is relatively close to what we have today. However, I agree with the critical assessments of those who say that we should not in any way have this system, which we now have in which there is much good, even internationally refrain from making comparisons, but should not continue to build these short sections, because this makes us an unpleasant feature of Europe. Therefore, in the subsequent programmes, Darsa would ask that a further tolling vision be presented in more detail, taking into account modern technologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you, Comrade Blaž Kavčič. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u102	Basically, we need to ask ourselves what we are actually doing. It is a matter of adopting a series of acts in the National Assembly when building motorways, and regardless of how different they are and how different they relate to different issues, the discussions are in fact all the same. In the same way they are dressed, in the same height, so to speak, which sections before, which later, the toll does, the toll does, the speed of construction does, the speed of construction does not and so on. I think we have on the agenda today the act of the company for motorways, that is, the programme of its work. This would otherwise mean how this society should be organised, how it should be effective and whether it is not. Although I think that these acts in the National Assembly are too much and it is stupid to accept so many, because then we find ourselves again at the point where we have faced it before - to deal with everything and, on the other hand, we do not see the essential problems. It is certainly clear that the expectations of individual regions, citizens and citizens across certain areas are what guides us, who are here discussing and trying to understand all those problems, and we are also trying to settle them somehow, but this is, in my opinion, a wrong approach. I believe that it is only necessary to come from the question of what the national programme is, how it is set, how the country that organised the shareholder society, which is owned by a hundred percent of the country, how this experiment or, I will say, this arrangement has been successful - and now we are dealing with these issues. I am sure that, when amending the Law on the Society for Motorways and amending the resolution or the revised national programme, we will also have to think about this. This will certainly raise the question of whether a sufficiently successful programme for which the State allocates certain funds is approved by credit guarantees and so on. I firmly believe that this is not about the state spending some money on certain things, but it is through the synergy that every country with a development cycle that stimulates it itself wants to achieve. It is undeniable that the country would not have this economic growth without the construction of motorways and more. I am going to talk a little bit more about the programme that will be on the agenda in the autumn, and also about the changes in the law, after all, because we are adopting this programme in the middle of the year, and society is already deep into what we have adopted in the second act.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you. One final debater, colleague Davorin Terchon.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would first like to share the opinion that my predecessor has also said that it seems completely unnecessary to me and in some way an anachronism, that we have a system in place when the National Assembly adopts the national programme and its changes, when it adopts the annual plan and finally the social programme. I will also conclude this with a concrete initiative to the Minister and the Government to bring about changes in the legislation in order to eliminate this anachronism because it is totally unnecessary. I think it is necessary for the National Assembly to adopt the national programme and its amendments. Probably because of the scope of the project and the current nature of the problem, there is no indication that the annual plan should be eliminated, but that we should consider the company programme in particular, and I think it is absolutely unnecessary. In extreme variant, it was entirely enough for the government to deal with it. More or less, all the discussions revolved around the national programme, the wishes, the needs, etc. In fact, there was little or little to say about the program. Everyone just said what makes him feel best and their view of this project. I'd rather do two things on my own. One is a comparison of the effectiveness of building motorways with neighbouring countries, specifically Croatia. Here I would repeat that it is true that we are probably building highways too slowly, that it is also possible for someone to make this construction very expensive, but it must be said that it is necessary to ask why this is so. We are also building too slowly because of the spillage of petrol tolar resources, too slowly and we are glad to build them because a number of initiatives and wishes of different local communities and local environments are included in this project. It is true, however, that our way of building highways with exclusively public means is a closed system that allows this expensive and slow construction. However, it is also true that the construction of motorways is a very large project in Slovenia, a very important generator for the development of the national economy in Slovenia. If this system were to be compared to Croatia, for example, we would certainly find that in other cases, when the intervention of concessional providers and others may not have been so taken into account by the various comments of local communities and that the construction of motorways certainly cannot even be such a generator of economic development as is here in Slovenia. Another, the themes would be touched by the singing way to collect the toll, which is every time a topic of different discussions about the construction of motorways or Darsa in Slovenia. That's right. We have an impenetrable, strange, uneven toll collection system. However, it must be said that we cannot change it at this time. We cannot go to blame for the direction of the European Union because the financial effects are questionable. But we just can't build a closed system. In particular, the European Directives provide for a proportionate payment of tolls with kilometres transported. We can't build it because we've already destroyed some of the toll stations of the closed system. Are we going to destroy the toll stations of the open system now? But that's not enough. We should probably build more superstructures, undercarriages, traffic arrangements. Which would cost billions. And we can't afford that. So this story is "passe." Sadly, in the past these decisions have come to light because they seem to have been underthinking. However, the existing Dars leadership and those dealing with these matters probably now have no other way out than to go to what they predict is to collect tolls as much as possible on different systems as ABC systems, and to make the most appropriate allocation of toll stations in Slovenia. In addition to all the necessary sections that have not yet been built and will be dealt with in the rebalancing or revisions of the national programme, where there will probably be a very hot debate again, which from different local backgrounds will want to be placed as far as possible in this national programme, I would like to point out something. According to forecasts of the dynamics of the construction of motorways in Slovenia are expected to be built there after 2013, 2015, these estimates differ, which are now to be the subject of this national programme. But I asked, and I also give the initiative, Mr from the Ministry and from Darsa, whether we will have some highway sections too narrow by then. You know, when you're driving around Europe, you already have six passports, eight-passengers. If I say only a specific case, Razdrto Ljubljana. When Gorica opens, the whole coast builds up, when we add the highway, I do not know where it will take place, between Postojna and River, or Time and River or Divina and River or even Kozina and River, whether this section will be able to absorb traffic in 10 years or more. I highly doubt it. Very, very, I doubt it. I would therefore like to encourage you gentlemen to consider this and plan something when you are preparing changes to the national programme. Finally, I would like to make a comment, which may not even be as important, but not as small as it is touching this programme. It seems unacceptable to me that now, on July 15, 14, in the middle of July, the area along the highway maintained by Dars is still unscathed. And it might even be the only one, if I, a little bit, would say, "scared," and take in the notes, the only comment based on this point. I'll be right with you. It seems completely unacceptable to me that by 15 July the main road between Ljubljana and Razdrým has not been cut down, which I have now mentioned in full. It's a negligible cost, and it throws one bad light. Even in Croatia I have noticed that they have a better cut, and we say we do not want to go there, in that direction, at least some. I don't know when you'll be cutting your throat between July 15th and August 20th. But I'm counting on you to organize yourself in the future so you can do it by the tourist season. This also applies to other maintenanceers of state roads, not just for you, and this throws one very, very bad light and slave onto the road, including our attitude towards the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. This was a debate between Members and Members. Now the government has some time available to answer those main questions, the most critical comments. Minister, will you? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much for the debate, which was, of course, extraordinary, as many of you have already found out, but this was a debate that will happen again in the autumn part when this National Assembly will adopt the national programme's rebalancing or the national programme's resolution and the adoption of the amendment or the new Dars Act. That is why I think that all this discussion will be repeated at the time and that, at this point, it is probably not necessary to answer the questions that were fundamental, which were also focused on the fact that this national programme, in particular, is being implemented properly in the Republic of Slovenia and that, of course, we will reach the final realization in due course. As already stated in this amendment to the Dars Act, as I have pointed out in the introduction, this innovation, or improvement, will also be proposed, so that we will not talk three times in the National Assembly on the same subject, but that the National Assembly will adopt this basic document, which was adopted this year, as stated on 18 December last year, and which is, of course, the basis for Dars implementing its programme in the motorway area. At this point, I can only guarantee that this year's programme is fully implemented, and even if we may never see such activity in the parts themselves, it is not a financial problem or any modified priority during the year itself, but it is a normal process in the execution of works, some work. Of course, some sections are not accessible to the eyes of our users using the existing road network. This way, I can ensure that Darsa's work programme or plan for 2003 comes true normally and I can guarantee that it will be realized by the end of the year. Therefore, I propose that the rest of the discussion on tolls and other discussions which were of course useful at today's meeting be held in early autumn when we consider other documents which, I am sure, will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia this month. I suggest you accept this program, which we have on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you, Minister. This also concludes the general debate. In this debate, I am now putting forward a proposal for a decision by the home working body of the Infrastructure Committee proposing: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to the programme of work of the service for the motorways of the Republic of Slovenia d.d., for 2003, 15.5.2003 and 6.6.2003. Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude this debate on the proposal for a decision. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the agreement to the programme today at 7 p.m. and 55 minutes. I'm breaking this agenda. At 3 p.m., we'll be on the 15th of the agenda. Until then, I'm taking a break. Thank you very much for the cooperation of representatives of the government and the company for motorways, the President of the administration of Mr Bozic and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u108	We'll continue with 15. This is in line with the agreement to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on Criteria and Conditions of Use on the Fund's Funds for the Financing of Spartan Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The programme was presented for consideration by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the Foundation, which I welcome, to the opening explanation of the programme. This is about four minutes according to our rules of procedure. Dr. Gregor Jurak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u109	I would like to briefly introduce to you some of the facts about the Foundation and the changes we are proposing. The Foundation was established in 1998 for the execution of concessional gambling benefits by means of means. We can say that the value of the foundation according to the previous body and also the previous volume and quality of the allocation of funds is high. The Foundation raises up to ten times the amount previously raised by the Lottery Council for this purpose. Through public tendering, five, she has distributed more than 5 billion funds in five years, amounting to about a billion funds, which is 10 times more than before. It has also distributed more than 10 times more resources than before. So far, she has allocated funds for 1552 projects, according to which about 300 projects are co-financed annually by the Foundation. The means of tendering shall be allocated on the basis of the rules, annual work plans and financial plans based on the basis of the baselines of the division prepared each year by the expert committees of the Foundation following the analysis of the applications received. In addition to these quantitative aspects, it is also important to emphasise a qualitative aspect. The Foundation's funds are much more deliberately spent than they were before the foundation was established, but it is not possible to ignore the multiple effects of the Foundation's assets. In fact, some analyses show that there has been a significant increase in investment in sport since the foundation was founded. In addition, the diverse composition of the world, which is also a focus of various sports interests, dictates, generates new ideas and the foundation has already been the initiator of several development projects in the field of sport. In the allocation of funds, however, the Foundation faces a difficult task of the exceptional need for Slovenian sport, and in particular the decision to establish a foundation, which states that the Foundation can finance little or no operators in the field of sport and the resources requested, which up to ten times exceed the allocated funds, are, of course, putting new challenges ahead of the Foundation. Most of the programmes that have been reported cannot be co-financed by the Foundation, but try to produce the best quality criteria for selecting programmes. The five-year term of the first term is behind us. The new world was established in February this year. On the basis of the experience of the past years, this proposed amendments to the rules that I would like to present to you. The changes do not affect the relationship between the individual areas of funding of the Foundation, these include sports activities, the construction of sports facilities, the research and development of sport and the publishing industry in sport, but, above all, define new possibilities for funding by the Foundation. The main changes touch on the areas of the construction of sports facilities, allowing the foundation to increase co-financing of so-called small investments. These are investments in sports facilities with an estimated value of not more than 15 million. This will make it easier for operators to implement the same funds control mechanisms, and this is particularly important in the light of the fact that, above all, we record a huge amount of voluntary work and donated material in these investments, while these operators do not have liquidity funds to cover investments. The change is that these operators could be co-financed by up to 50% according to the estimated value of the total investment. An important novelty is also an additional procedure for selecting performers in the area of the construction of sports facilities. In this area, indicative resources shall be allocated for a maximum period of three years, thereby enabling [[...]] [[End warning sign]] the operators facilitate the implementation of the investment. [[...]] I'll ask you for half a minute, if you don't mind. At the same time, we would encourage national trade unions, local communities and regions to think more about the importance of individual investments. Project funding, as defined by the Regulation, also gives the Foundation a better opportunity to identify the purpose of funding within a given area. In addition to this, the Foundation also proposes a shorter deadline for the submission of applications, which will allow for better processing of applications and faster allocation of funds to users, but will still have 30 days available. It also lays down additional conditions for co-financing operators and selection criteria in certain parts of the Regulation, such as scholarships, professional books and the establishment of missing programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The amendments and additions to the Regulation were considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to all Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! The Committee considered the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure after the first proposal had been withdrawn from the procedure of the National Assembly, since the Legislative and Legal Service had a great deal of comments on the text of this Regulation and we cannot correct it in the process. When he presented the second text, we listened first to the opinion of the proposer on the committee, which was similar to what you heard here, then to the legislative and legal service which agreed with the dictatorship that you have before you. A discussion followed, in which only two members of the committee participated, Mr Jože Kavtičnik, who supported the proposal for an agreement on this act, took place on the basis of the arguments put forward by the applicant and Mr France Cukjat, who was somewhat critical of this material. The first critical point was that he warned that, with the same care as in sport, we should also do it at the disability fund and correct those criteria, but we could not discuss it. However, the second point was that it was somewhat critical to the allocation of these funds in relation to the national programme, especially the funding for high-quality sport. After receiving certain answers regarding the use of money in relation to the national programme, the Committee adopted two decisions without a vote. The first decision was to address this issue at this meeting, which is what the leadership of the National Assembly has done, and this is what we are doing. The second decision was a proposal to the National Assembly to give its consent to the amendments and additions to the Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the text to the Members and Members, the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Vili Trofenik is expected to present the position of the SLS Group. Mr. Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u113	Your Honors are here! We do not have members in the foundation world in the Slovenian National Party, nor do we have representatives on the Olympic Committee. We are probably one of the few political organizations that do not compete or tend to have their place in sports organisations or institutions. However, it may also be because of this behaviour about the allocation of funds and in the operation of such assets is based solely on paper behaviour. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that the additions to the Regulation will indeed contribute to more effective financing of Slovenian sport, as described in the explanation of the Regulation. As regards the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we are particularly underscoring division by area and project. The sectoral scholarship is an extension of the deadline, a new status of non-profit sports organisations, and we particularly welcome the guidelines of the Rules of Procedure in the new Article 4 which, in our opinion, has guided the size of investments in the right form. Furthermore, the grant under Article 5, Article 5, Article 10, Article 10, and the success of the implementation of the past periods under Article 11, as well as the promotion of mass sports events. Of course, this is just a few of the advantages of a new proposal or new rules of procedure. We have highlighted those whom we believe will contribute or contribute to the quality of the Foundation itself and through this funding, and on the other hand, we would like to hear a few opinions from the representative in his final or final words on our opinion of the shortcomings that we can share in two areas. Firstly, there is a lack of complementarities to sanctions on the purposeless use of funds. So how do you expect these things to work out? And secondly, the timeliness or pace for the use of the funds allocated by the Foundation. The decision of the Slovenian National Party to support, despite the positive views expressed at the outset, will of course depend on the presentation of these two shortcomings and how the proposer or advocate sees them and how he intends to respond positively to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Cimperman, SDS, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Respectable representatives of the Foundation, colleagues and colleagues! In principle, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party, we support the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which does not mean that we are completely without commenting on the content of the Regulation itself. The first thought we have relates to a provision that speaks of co-financing of the activities of high-level sport. This provision provides for co-financing for representative programmes up to 50%. We are of the opinion that this percentage is too high as it is supposed to be financed by the state and sponsoring funds as well. Funding from the Foundation is intended primarily for the financing of activities of sports education for children and youth focused on quality and high-quality sport, as well as activities of sports education for children and young people, sports activities for students and sports recreation, the latter on the shoulders of local communities. It is probably clear to everyone that huge state and sponsoring funds are being acquired in the programmes of excellence in sport, and we are less aware of how this is being used. Many times, only a handful of our top athletes, accompanied by so many more officials, who do not pay travel and stay out of their pockets, are attending large international sports events, so often there is not enough money left to reward those athletes who have achieved excellent results. Therefore, from the point of view of the use of the fund for financing sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that more funding from the foundation should be earmarked for younger categories. It is unacceptable, as shown in the table, that for top sports, 33% were separated from the Foundation and only 8% or more for the activities of sports education of children and young people. In the Social Democratic Party Group, we propose to the Foundation's management the following allocation of resources: top sports activities, representation programmes to be co-financed up to 40%, sports education activities for children and young people focused on quality and high-quality sport, up to 60%, sports activities for children and young people, sports activities for students and sports recreation up to 35%, and other programmes up to 5%. The second point we have relates to the criteria for selecting operators. In the parliamentary group, we believe that those candidates or contractors who first run for funds should have the same conditions in practice as the others. Those operators which have not successfully implemented the allocations should also be reimbursed and should not be re-candidated for new funds. As it is said, in the Group of the Socialist Party, we will support amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. But we want the Foundation's leadership to consider our expressed concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Only Bevk, United List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The UK Group will support amendments and additions to the rules on criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The Sports Foundation has been active for only 5 years since 1998. The basis for its creation was the adoption of a law on gambling. The Foundation had only 142 million tolars available for the first year, and in 2003 it was available for 1 billion and 400 million tolars on the basis of a call for individual projects. As shown in the Foundation's report and today's interpretation of the proposal, over the past 5 years, 5 billion and 70 million tolars have been allocated for 1552 projects, for co-financing of four areas of sport, for sports activities, for building sports facilities, for research and development of sport, and for publishing in sport. Although the Sports Foundation covers a small part of the needs of sport in the country, it has become an important source for the implementation of the programmes of national sector sports associations and for the financing of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, as well as an important source for co-financing investment and investment maintenance of sports facilities at national and local level. In 2000, the National Sports Programme in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted by the National Assembly. Through the National Sports Programme, the country co-creates the conditions for the development of sport by covering an integrated organised sport activity: sports education, sports recreation, quality and excellence sport and sport of disabled persons, which is in the public interest and co-financed by public funds. The national programme at national level needs to be implemented on the basis of the value of the programme on 1.1.1999, three billion five hundred and fifty million tolars and eleven billion tolars at local community level. So together almost fifteen billion tolars. By comparison, in 1999 the Sports Foundation had at its disposal nine hundred million tolars. This represents just over 6% of the budget allocated by the State and local communities to the implementation of the national sport programme. However, since the sport programme and the national programme are also co-financed from other sources, not only from the state budget and the budget of local communities and the sports foundations, but also from the funds of donation, sponsorship, volunteer work, participants' funds, television rights and the like, I ask the representatives of the applicants or the government whether a calculation or review is made, or how much of the funding is being used in our country in the entire field of sport. I am not asking this because of any perception, but because we should also have a real picture of the resources in this area. Under the law on gambling, the decree establishing the Sports Foundation has been adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also under the competence of the National Assembly to appoint a Board of Foundations, which is composed of 13 members. In addition, the Fund for the Allocation of Funds has four expert committees and a director and a modestly-occupied administration and an external employee's legal advice. At least with this hypertrophy of administration, it is encouraging that the cost of the Foundation is less than 3% of the funds. I have nothing against controlling the distribution of public funds, this is more than absolutely necessary. However, I have doubts that the National Assembly plays such an important role in the distribution of billions and half of tolars for sport, and the review of the whole area of sport financing in the country is nowhere near at all. Otherwise, in the UK Group, we support the proposed amendments to the regulation, such as the increased participation of funds for investment in smaller sports facilities totalling up to 15 million tolls for the possibility of a maximum of three-year call for framework funds for investment, to increase the possibility of scholarshiping athletes and so on. Since the national sport programme is highly ambitious and is expected to be fully implemented by 2010, it is certainly also important to fund this programme in a stable way from the funds provided by the co-financing fund of sport organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Party will be presented by Marko Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Young Slovenia, I will support the proposed amendments and additions to the rules on criteria and conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation. We view the work of the foundation in our client as good and successful. In order to realize all the programmes and more resources, it would also be necessary to cut into another law, such as the law on gambling, to operate this foundation. I think it might be good to think about that. In some ways, representatives of the Foundation would be invited to undertake more reviews and implementation of the national sport programme in the Republic of Slovenia, particularly in the field of local communities. For as far as I am concerned, I also personally know a few things that the national programme or the content of this national sport programme does not work out at these levels as intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Jože Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable representative of the foundation council, Mr. Jurak! A distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club, we will agree to amend and supplement the rules on criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Although the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia covers a small part of the financing needs of sport in our country, this means for some organisations, in particular national sector sports associations, local sports associations, sports clubs and societies and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, an important part of the funding in ensuring the implementation of their plans. The results of top athletes, many quality programs of interesting sports education for children and youth, organised sports recreation, as well as mass sports activities in Slovenia are increasing. Therefore, the need for a number of new modern facilities and more efficient financing of sports projects are also increasingly present in our space. The needs and development of sport dictates constant adjustment, so they have been following the needs of sport since its creation and are adapting the criteria and rules for the allocation of funds to help us improve the quality of sport in Slovenia. One of the most important tasks of the Foundation is the quality of the allocation of funds to individual areas financed by the Foundation. The basis for the allocation of funds is the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted in July 1998 with the first correction in 2000. This gave the foundation the basis for the allocation of funds. The important changes that the amendment wishes to highlight in particular are the following. In the area of the construction of sports facilities, it is proposed to increase co-financing from 30% to 50% of the estimated value for investments, worth up to 15 million sieves. For larger investments, the amendments to the Regulation allow for a three-year funding cycle, which on average does not exceed 40% of the annual funding for the construction of sports facilities defined in the Foundation’s annual programme. It is also essential that funds be allocated through projects, which does not mean financing a specific programme, but is intended in the first phase for groups of programmes with the objectives set by the Foundation. In this way, additional funds will be obtained from projects to rebuild external sports areas, children and youth for sports activities during holidays, publishing in the field of sports recreation and more. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will give our consent to the amendments and additions to the Rules, as I said in the introduction. I believe that this will improve the distribution of resources in the field of high-quality sport and sports activities aimed at quality and excellence sport, as the proposed changes and additions to the evaluation of programmes also take into account the winning medals in the highest competitions, the Olympics, the world championships of the European Championships. This also encourages young people to participate in more sports and sports. The co-financing of sports infrastructure is finally increasing the sport offer for the widest crowds of those citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who see in sport a healthy way of spending their free time. Sport is an invaluable value, which is also valid for future protection. That is why we will also support these amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Liberal Democracy Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Ms Ana Marija Tisovic, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that after five years of operation of the Foundation, changes to the rules are necessary. Especially given that the Foundation has significantly less resources than the needs of the Republic of Slovenia show. We believe that it is positive that this Regulation allows smaller investments more opportunities for co-financing and that this will have greater effects. However, in the New Slovenia Group, we note that the ratios given to individual activities are not too good. We are very disturbed by the fact that the smallest percentage is intended for the interesting sports education of children and young people, for sports activities of students and sports recreation. You could call this a health sport. We believe that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Foundation should allocate more funding for sport for all and not only for top sports. We know this is also necessary, but it can be financed from other sources. The New Slovenia Group does not oppose the adoption of the new Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members and are going to the general debate of Members and Members. First of all, Mr Sašo Peca, he is not here, Mr Jože Tanko, and he is not here right now, Mr Leopold Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Sport is one of the more successful things in this country, and thank God it is. Of course, a significant part of this is the operation of a foundation or funds that are channelled through the Foundation into sport. It is very important to know that in Slovenia, public funds are mainly used to finance activities towards high-quality sport and very little, in fact, high-quality sport, and one of the most important is the one we are talking about today. From the state budget, from municipal budgets is mainly financed until the high-quality sport of building buildings, in short, all of these things which were mentioned by colleagues and colleagues as a wish to be more in sport. So it's kind of distributed. The Foundation funds are very important for the construction of sports facilities and, as Dr. Jurak has already said, they are actually a multiplier. This is very important and thus the development generator, because, let's just say, it is good to know that the national programme is exceeded and goes beyond at the level of the construction of sports facilities, because there is so much more money also through money coming from the foundation and which binds on itself additional money in local communities, of course for the development of sport, not only sports, but for health is, of course, the construction of sports facilities that are used not only by top athletes, but they are used by recreationals, using everyone who can reach these sports facilities is extremely important. Thus, the operation of the Foundation is important and I think that these changes that are going back in this direction must be supported and, of course, the Foundation should be wished to be as successful in the future as it has been in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer. I don't see him here right now. Mr. Banko Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In this proposal, amendments to the rules on criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia would be right to talk mainly about these things; but good, now most or all of the debaters will take advantage of the opportunity to try even a number of other observations and comments in general, to the general notion of the concept of sport in accordance with the national programme, etc. In short, the matter may be dealt with more broadly than would have been allowed in accordance with this proposal for amendments to the Regulation. In principle, I would say that I do not personally object to these new proposals, although I rightly admit that I do not know exactly what kind of provision will make such a significant contribution to the improvement of things. Some are sure, but probably not all of them. At the same time, when we got this change, of course, I refreshed my memory again and looked at the entire rules on criteria. I also looked at the decree establishing the Foundation, etc. In short, the matter has been tried to lighten up a little bit more so that he can remember what it's all about. And I may also have some comments about this, which are not now covered in this text of amendments. In fact, this rule kind of applies in the field of Slovenia for all the same things, but I wonder, as Mr Bevk had earlier wondered that it would be nice if the National Assembly had some review of the use of all the resources used in sport, and some others here you mentioned to see at what stage or person Slovenia is financing, sport, etc. I am more concerned that it could be good, because I have never seen this review before, but how these funds are used in individual areas of Slovenia. Personally, I have the feeling that these funds are being used by foundations mainly by those who have money that is already rich. All those areas, which are underdeveloped, which are generally defined as being in danger in the existing system, if I may say so, are also extremely disadvantaged in this area, I believe, including for the construction of infrastructure facilities and then all other projects, the financing of programmes and so on, something because of the incompetence of individual environments that do not know how to use these resources, some because these poor municipalities or less developed areas are simply not capable of providing from their own resources so as to be able to undertake a project at all, a programme of some infrastructure in the field of sport. In short, I have a feeling that these things are concentrating too much in some centers, like I said, where money is enough. We also have, for example, a law on the financing of municipalities, which speaks of the fact that in certain areas that are financially weak, the participation of certain financial incentives by different levels of the state budget, perhaps also from the foundation - which the foundation does not essentially address, but distributes evenly to all - that certain areas should receive greater incentives, as the law on more coherent regional development also speaks of and so on. In short, as far as I know these areas, I think that even because the foundation may not have a range between which areas should have been more encouraged, with a higher co-financing rate, in order to further develop sports infrastructure, they also actually contribute to making certain areas even poorer. That's my feeling. And believe me, the inhabitants of the country of Slovenia planfully and in my opinion also very carefully follow these phenomena, saying, the equipment of individual areas with sports infrastructure, and on this basis also decide - because this is a quality of living, quality of life - where they will live, also for such things. And then, logically, all those areas that are neglected, blind for a long, long time will not be able to swim in this area even in all the other areas that this country's policy is somehow talking about in the sense that areas that are neglected need to be significantly more assisted. In short, I don't know if you should be able to think in the future in this direction that areas that are neglected and less developed should be more cost-effectively co-financed, not only in the area of building infrastructures or sports facilities, if you want, but also in the area of software funding. That's my suggestion. Now, of course, you will consider whether this is possible or not, or do you think that this should be arranged at some other level. In short, I think, given the high funds of the foundation that are gathering here, they are certainly still too small, this is seen from the needs, from the applications that actually arrive at these calls, and also in this direction something should be done and thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is not the case that sport in Slovenia is so well developed that we have such good results, because it works so well, it is being planned, and what some people are imitating, I would like to say in concrete terms and picture. So, speaking from the point of view, there is no need in the National Assembly, for each Member can obtain and obtain appropriate material. Here I have one piece of material, a report on the work of the Sports Foundation in the mandate period of 7. 2. 1998 to 7. 2. 2003. And I'm just gonna read something. So, who's been allocated the funds. Among them is the municipality of Obranci, the mountain resort Mežica, the mountain resort Boka-žaga, the municipality of Ilirska Bistrica, the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, the municipality of Jurišci, the municipality of Kočevje, the municipality of Krško, Metlika, Ribnica and so on. So in most cases, the funds were distributed outside the center, just as some want and want to flood. So it's not like that. I have obtained the relevant information, and I must say that the foundation shares resources according to needs, where they are also willing to participate in local communities. A significant improvement in this regulation, why these changes are, is whether we want to increase co-financing from 30 per cent to 50 per cent there, that is, for smaller investments, to 15 million. Just because it is known that small municipalities do not have such funds or resources to go into large investments, the foundation has therefore adopted a proposal to finance such smaller ones up to 50 percent. Then it is also important to finance, as I have already said, in the multi-annual cycle. This means a three-year funding cycle in which up to 40 per cent of the funds earmarked for this purpose can be allocated to the Foundation. It means helping those who want to increase or improve infrastructure and cannot provide it in a one-year budget, the Foundation can, of course, do so or finance it in a multi-annual cycle. I am sure, as I said, that the foundation and work of the Foundation is professional and that sport in Slovenia is based on scientific basis. For this reason, I also support the allocation of funds for research purposes. Of course, these resources are not as large as they could have been, but if we did not have them, I am sure that sport would not be a step, with sport in Slovenia, of course, in step with more developed countries. And that is why we have developed sport in Slovenia either higher or higher than in some more developed countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u130	Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the fact that sport is of great importance to national health, we are probably all alone. Of course, from year to year our way of life is so that we will need more and more care for this activity, more and more financial resources for education, maintenance and preservation of so-called physical culture. But surely we are all probably the only ones, that this national interest is, of course, in crowds, especially in crowds - it means that as many children as possible, as many adults are physically recuperating and living healthyly, that is the main objective of national interest. Why am I repeating this, because public funds are also raised in a way similar to that intended to satisfy the public interest and to achieve the public interest. Of course, the question arises immediately, why do we devote so much money to high-end sport? High-level sports are also needed, but it is important to be aware that when we look at the top achievements of our athletes in front of the TV screen, we are no more healthy, no more healthy, but it can be the motivation for our young people to enter into this way of thinking and also give their weight to sport. However, if they want to take the first step towards this, of course it is a question of village playgrounds, it is a question of access to sports facilities, which, of course, are in an increasingly poor state in the field, and sports events are becoming more expensive, increasingly rules and increasingly rules burden sports events. The most recent rules are that all such public events must be closely monitored by professional security guards, and this is, of course, costly. Let me just say, one small event, for example, a sports event, whatever, in the village also requires a health emergency service, which immediately collects half the entrance fee. On this point, I ask myself if we have a national interest ahead of us, and if we are aware that public funds are of public interest, I am not talking about the resources obtained from the sale of television broadcasts by sponsors, etc., what is characteristic of high-quality sport and with specific state resources, but these national funds are intended, however, to ensure in this sense national interest. What is this rule, which, of course, we can only give consent, unfortunately, we cannot supplement it, we cannot amend it. It foresees that the funds of the Foundation, the total assets, are divided into two large groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u132	May I interrupt your debate for a moment, but please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down and listen to your colleague!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u133	More importantly, these funds are mainly intended, billions of 400, sports activities themselves and the other half of the financing of sports facilities, research, publishing and the like. [[...]] Nice and good. However, it is stated in the Regulation that 40 to 50% of these assets are devoted to sports activities, of course for construction, research and publishing. That's what you're saying, for the indirect promotion of sport. And already this year's call for only 40% for sports activity is not 60% for the rest. Thus, the applicant or here is already a stepmother’s attitude toward sports activity. This is said to be at least as much as the rulebook requires. The rule requires at least 40 to 50, they went to 40. I'm on my way. Of these means, which are intended for sport activities, according to the rules, up to 50% are guaranteed - of these means for sports activities - for top sports, up to 50% of the training for top sports - and thus up to 30% for sports activities, interesting sports education of children, youth, sports activities of students and sports recreation. So what has a broader national interest. And according to the rules, now in force, up to 50% of the sport is perfect, this year's invitation to tender is 42% - according to the rule. Clearly, desires are more, reality is like that. Up to 50% will be given for top sports education. Okay. Gentlemen! Now we are at the most important work; therefore, sports activity, education of children, youth, sports activity of students, sports recreation is under the rules of up to 30%, not even half will be awarded, only 12%. This is said to be the second stage of an extremely masculine attitude towards what the heart of this rule should be. So it happened to us that in this year 2003 a million 400 of the total resources will be dedicated to top sport 33%, 50% for construction, 8% for research and development of sport, and, gentlemen, only 4.8% for the heart of national interest. Half less than for research and ten times less for building buildings! And where are these objects going to stand? I've been looking for papers, and I'd like data on how to distribute the money from the building site, which objects are being built. What facilities? Or for mass sports or for top sports? And if we were to split that up, then, gentlemen, this rule would need real change. It is not good that we have this attitude towards an extremely important issue and that we still somehow continue to lead and subject ourselves to certain lobbying and neglect what we are really supposed to offer to the people from public resources. Unfortunately, as I say, we cannot supplement this rule. We would like to have a clearer view, and we will certainly propose that there will be a special debate on this subject on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I tried to answer - if I understood Mr Kavtičnik's debate, which somehow sought to sum me up in this sense, at least I was looking for something to push. I didn't do anything! I don't think so. If that's what you understand, then you've got it all wrong. But it is a fact that what you yourself have said, what you read in this report, three more, four, five, six cases, in fact, says nothing if we haven't talked about heights, the exact analysis of where these funds went. But well, I can also push a political representative, as a political representative, or at least assume that there are some things I only know. And it certainly is true - and now you will not, if you want - the fact is that the funds of the foundation certainly concentrate in some environments more than elsewhere. That's definitely it. You also have to ask yourself if you want to, if you want to, I'll tell you: the fact is, someone is in control of this sport. Policy is also controlled by this sport, from all structures, from top to bottom. In fact, we can come with us - we as a representative of the opposition - the leader of some sort of club, who is in very difficult trouble, that we can co-finance from our pocket and help that the club even exists and that those most urgent programs are being implemented. That's what I do if you want me to. That's what I do. I'm giving away my money. Besides my work, I'm giving my money so the club can even function because there's not enough resources to work normally. Please! And old structures control sports from top to bottom, that's definitely it. Someone was just usurping this sport for their own needs, including political ones. That's right and nothing else. And there's something else you need to know, a lot of -- just go look -- a lot of people are rich at the expense of sports in this country, different intermediaries and so on and managers and who else would know what. Rich! And I firmly believe that such a system that makes it possible is not the best. I'm not gonna name any of them, but that's definitely true. A lot of people got rich on this account, and that's not right. I will not say that now from the fund, but in the sport system as a whole - go look only in privileged sports like skiing and so on, as rich people are. Yeah, that's right! And how to lose money, like, these ski jumps in Planica and so on. These are such anomalies that your hair goes to the end when you see tens of millions just disappear. And no one's counting on these things. In short, I will still - otherwise I will get these analyses that you were talking about, but I still think that in the future we should consider changing this rule and taking into account some of the things that I have been talking about and which are certainly not covered and foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor. Mr. Jurak, would you like to answer these questions? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The list of discussers is now exhausted, and replicas to the replica, as you know, Mr Kavticnik, are not according to the rules of procedure. [[...]] If there's time left, there's a chance there's a minute left in this. Since there's no more debaters, we'd go our separate ways. First, we have a discussion of the proposer, in particular the answers, then the government, and then on with our rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much to all for your questions, initiatives and opinions. I must say that your opinions are essentially no different from the foundation's world, and neither am I. However, some views need to be clarified here, because certain facts of the operation of the Foundation have been presented quite differently than they really are. First of all, I would like to go to the comments of the Slovenian National Party Group, which, if I understand correctly, were interested in two issues, namely the lack of sanctions on the intended use and the timeliness of the use of funds. The lack of sanctions in the purposeful use of funds is linked to the explanation of part of the Foundation. In fact, the foundation does not actually indicate funds to its contractors until after they have been realized. This also relates to the issue of the SDS Group of Members, which said that those who did not successfully implement the funds should also be reimbursed. They can't get them back because they didn't even get them. So it's really a purposeful use of funds. Therefore, as far as sanctions are concerned, we are also carrying out further controls; in particular in construction, we are going to look through all situations and see what the situation is. Thus far we have not had any negative report from this point of view. The duration of the Foundation’s funds shall be linked to the inflows of funds linked to concessional benefits from gambling and such as it is. The Foundation is essentially decommissioning funds that are not yet fully received, so our funds are also allocated on time throughout the year. Comments from the SDS on the allocation of funds within the activities. This refers to Article 4, whose amendments are not proposed. But I'd like to say the following, which is very important. When we talk about top sports, it is important to say that top sports is not only in the item you mentioned, or also in the field of sports recreation is not only in the item; it is only about programs. While creating conditions, it is said, the development of both sports recreation, sport for everyone and other exercises is covered in what has already been mentioned, it is said, in the construction of sports facilities. We have a wide range of facilities, which you can look at on our website. We have the analysis done, the mandate report is also on the Foundation’s sport.org website, where you can take a closer look at all things. As far as the research and development of sport is concerned, this is not intended for excellent sport either. The development and exploration of sport is at all levels of sport. It's the same with publishing in sports. As far as sports are concerned, the opinion of the Foundation's Council is that this is an extremely important area and it is also being addressed. It is important to know when we are talking about 50% that this does not mean actual funding of 50%, that the foundation is financed from somewhere by 2% and up to 40% of the individual link in the programme. Our funds are essentially too low to fund anyone 50%. The ski link, which is the largest recipient, for example, gains 10% by the foundation, while some small link, national, industry gains a maximum of 40%. With regard to the issue of the United List and the calculation, I would leave it to the Ministry. Then, as far as the Young People's Party's question is concerned, perhaps the opinion. I agree that the foundation for even better, optimal operation needs more resources and we have prepared some systemic changes in the field of gambling law, which we will mediate because in September, if I know, you are considering a change of law and we will mediate to the National Assembly for your consideration. However, as regards the implementation of the national programme at local level, the Foundation is only one of the public resources that provide essentially the implementation of the national programme and as such does not have any direct control over the use of resources at local level. I agree with Mrs Kisovic that more resources should be given to sport for all, but it is also necessary to look at the requirements. The same applies to this regional dispersion of facilities. If we go to do an analysis or this analysis is done on our website, how many objects or investments are reported by region, what is the amount of funds requested by region, and how many individual regions you receive, you will see an obvious trend of decentralisation. The centralisation of the Foundation's funds will take place essentially if we look at all the funds and this at the expense of that, because most of the umbrella sports organisations in Slovenia are in Ljubljana. That's why it's supposed to be centralized. However, if you look at sports facilities, you will see that the funds of the foundations are highly decentralised and you can also look at the larger sports facilities each year. For example, it is Maribor, there is Bled, there is Trbovlje and so on throughout all regions of Slovenia. As far as national interest is concerned. Another important factor needs to be highlighted here. In fact, sports programs are not all sports in Slovenia. Most sports in Slovenia are not organized. It is for this we create opportunities through the construction of sports facilities, through various development incentives, research and publishing about sport. Thus, the point is that someone could also be unorganised and those percentages are in fact very problematic in their interpretation. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Mr Cukjat highlighted 4.8% for the field of interesting sports education of children and youth, students and sports recreation. In fact, the area of other activities that we have within sports activities is very much intended to support this previous area in terms of promotion. Therefore, these two literal areas can be aggregated because they are, on the one hand, information promotion programmes in the field of sport for all. Thus, this share is actually higher. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, Dr. Jacob Bednarik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u139	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am very pleased that the debate was so extensive. Well, sport is a lot of interest. Maybe some very indicative answers. Of course, we know how much and why it is spent in Slovenian sport, and this year we also submit it to our home committee, and somehow from the head of €53 million, it is easier for me because I would recently be at some presentation abroad, but I remember the euro so much better, the revenue from the fund money and TV rights, which is mainly going to top sports. 56 million euros about to be disintegrated [[?]] sports, this is the part we pay for our own sport, sports education for children and young people and their own sports recreation, ski tickets and the like. 250 or more million euros are being converted for sale of sports products. Of course, this is generated from the point of view of mass sport. Sometime over 50 million, 56 million euros, I think, is public finances. This is four times more than on a national level, which is very small against the local community. About 50: 50 percent is about activities and 50 percent about sports facilities. As far as national interest is concerned, I agree. The philosophy from which we must come out is a good mass sport - sorry - good top sports in order to have as much mass sport as possible. We're monitoring the indicators. Out of 46 percent of the active athletes, it's up to 52 again. That's what you call positive. There are more and more active sports children. After 100,000 children, for example, we have a system of school sports competitions co-financed at national level. The knowledge of swimming has risen over 82 percent. We have 100,000 children in the interest programs Krpan, Golden Sun and according to the population - it is clear that we have to count the ratio here - it is increasing. The costs that we are actually doing this with are decreasing. It should be said that the public finances that we invest in high-quality sport - these are both public finances at the local level of foundations, at the state level - are falling compared to gross social product. Of course, this process needs to be done, I'll say, controlled, otherwise we can lose the ultimate sport at the moment. And clearly, the correlations I've made in the past as a researcher are clear. There is a connection between top sports and mass sports, both interesting activities and - I will say - sports for all. In short, sport is integrity and we monitor parameters, sports performance indicators, we have them under control and I think we need to be careful here. We have also explored the culture of sport in essence, and here we have actually found that there are two important issues. On the one hand, this is professional work in sport and, on the other hand, it is the values with which we promote it. In short, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. I am putting forward a proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to amend and supplement the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 11. 6. 2003." Who wants to discuss this proposed decision? Mr. Kavtičnik wants to discuss it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will support this amendment, because I am aware that a well-organised sport and a well-funded sport can also bring crowds to our sports grounds, the crowds involved in sports, and the crowds who will make good use of their free time. At the same time, allow me to congratulate you, Mr Vice-President, and Mr Janša on your winning first place at the European Golf Parliamentary Championship.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Who else wants to discuss it? No one else. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on the proposal for a decision. The agreement to the Rules of Procedure will be decided in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 19.55 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. Procedurally, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u143	Mr. Vice President, you said earlier that if there was any time left, you would ask the auditorium if anyone else wanted to say anything. Since you didn't ask that, I'm asking what that means.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u144	I asked this question as soon as I had formulated the decision, and this time is scheduled for discussion by procedure. And it's not as hard here as you know. Now, if we applied to the word, I asked who else wanted it, there was no more special so, in short. [[...]] We've got more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u145	I don't think you were clear, because we only have 16 seconds left. In particular, we could say that you are now giving Members and Members the other 23 minutes to share. You weren't clear, if you didn't, of course I would have answered, but I'd like to have a very short comment yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u146	If I make it clear again. I've formulated a conclusion and asked who wants the word. Mr Kavtičnik and nobody else has agreed to do so. If you were to sign up, if anyone from the hall were to come forward, of course you would be discussing this decision. And if you were adhering to common practice and skill, you could say a lot of things about it. However, since no one has applied, I have concluded the debate and, unfortunately, I also have to say the point of the agenda, because of course I have already interrupted it. I'm breaking up with that. We'll continue at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u147	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to work and moving on to 17. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FOR DISCUSSION ON THE ANSWER OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA MIRK BANDLIA TO THE POSITION OF FRANCE PUKŠIČICH ON THE HIGHER WAIL AND BONITY OF THE GOVERNMENTAL INSTRUMENTS AND ENTITIES. At its 27th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response that Prime Minister Mirko Bandelj put to Mr Puksic's question on the level of salaries and ratings of directors in public institutions and businesses. I give my word to Mr. Franz Puksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u148	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary-General, Vice-President, nice greeting! First of all, to refresh the memory of why a request came from my side for an extended debate on the review of the criteria for the allocation of individual rights and other matters for government and state officials and leading persons in companies where the majority owner of the country is. Last year, 11 July, the National Assembly, the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission adopted a decision imposing on the Government to provide a review of the criteria for the allocation of individual rights by 30 September 2002 [[Mobile phones, service vehicles, means of representation, apartments, insurance, credit cards and the like]] for government and other state officials and leading persons in companies where the majority ownership of the country is separate, by individual ministries or bodies and companies, and by individual officials and leaders. On the basis of the decision taken, which was also sent to the Government, a reply was sent by the Government on 19 November 2002. This reply was sent on the basis of a re-examination by Kviaz on 17 October, which contained two documents: it contained an apartment code and a regulation on the use of service cars. So, to the widely asked question of Kviaza was the answer very scop - with two rules. Well, later on, on December 10, last year, it was sent back to the government, to Mr Mirk Bandl, Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the following request: "We thank him for his reply and at the same time ask that you take into account that he does not give a full decision," which is to say, the one I mentioned earlier, "sufficient answers and requests that the reply be completed as soon as possible." Well, there was no complement to the answer, but on 22 January the answer came in the following form: "We regret the precise answer to your extensive question, but let me point out that all the annexes we have were sent to you together with letter 19.11." Well, those "all annexes" are two regulations, the apartment code and the regulation on the use of service cars. This means that the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been ignored at the request of the National Assembly, not only to members of the National Assembly, but to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in this way a clear request has been made and, of course, several times has been forwarded - no reply. Since this story has therefore not expired, as a member of the National Assembly, I have asked Mr Mirk Bandl a question on this subject. And Mr Mirko Bandelj, in his reply, began: "First of all, I would say that it would be very difficult to assess certain documents, letters that simply sum up the fact as offensive." My point here is: it was not, of course, referring to documents that were offensive, but, of course, to the Government's offensive attitude towards the National Assembly and, above all, to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am deeply convinced that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the right to know who and how to manage their money and how it is rewarded. This is their undeniable right. Well, it went on to say that the Secretary-General then replied as follows; therefore, he must say that we do not consider the directors of public institutions to be public officials, and so on. This, however, is because he wants to make it clear that there is simply no single regulation to deal with these issues. It's not like that. Indeed, the Secretary-General himself said that there was a decision on the criteria for concluding contracts for the employment of directors of public enterprises, agencies and funds and that there was also a decision on the criteria for determining basic salaries. And then the recommendations and so on. Well, if we look at this decision and look earlier at this decision on these criteria and the determination of wages, the Secretary-General also replied in the second part by saying that "it is similarly arranged for the salaries of directors in companies owned by the majority of the state". The fact is that in this country we do not have any law in this area to regulate it. We had, from 1999 to 2001, a law on minimum wages, conditions and regression, and so on, which had ceased to apply. And the fact is that the new law which will enter into force will not enter into force until 1 January of the following year for public servants and fund managers, institutions and so on. In spite of the fact that some of these conclusions were cited, the Secretary-General himself said in his reply: "Then he also points out the Government's conclusions, because, like you, we have found that, despite these criteria which are relatively clear, and despite the recommendations that members of the Supervisory Boards should apply in these public companies, but in some cases there is a wage that is higher than the criteria so defined." And that's why the government actually adopted two sets of issues, and a little bit later. At the moment, I would like to focus on the decision on the criteria for the conclusion of contracts for the employment of directors of public enterprises, agencies, funds of which the Republic of Slovenia is the founder. Article 2 states that "under Article 11 of the Labour Relations Act" and so on "make a public undertaking as an employer represented by the President of the Management Authority and the Director of the Public Enterprise as an employee of the Employment Contract". Article 5 then states that "the employer has the right to pay, rest and so on" and Article 6 states: "The basic salary may, depending on the size of the property managed by the employer, mean the extent of the property managed by the employer and other criteria prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Commission for Personnel and Administrative Affairs; it shall be at least 50% and a maximum of 90% of the salary paid by the Minister responsible for the area without an allowance for working hours." Article 7 states that "it is also possible to win a performance award". However, if you want to win this award as director, you can get it once a year, but under the terms of the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So do not say that these conclusions do not contain these things! Now I ask you, given that these conclusions are not once a year, but they were violated monthly, which of these directors was responsible for what sanctions, what you did and so on. Article 9 clearly states that the contract shall be fixed to the same extent as that laid down for other employees in accordance with the collective agreement. And in Article 10: "It is not possible to lay down in contracts other employee rights as laid down in this Decision." Here is the question: Why then are the contracts signed by directors of public enterprises, agencies and funds, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, secret. There is no legal basis, no rule that these contracts are classified. Well, and, look at what is most clear: Article 13 clearly states that, for example, contracts already concluded prior to the adoption of this Decision must be aligned with the provisions of this Decision no later than 30 days after its entry into force. And before the contract is signed, it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the Minister responsible for this area on its suitability. This means that if the government in the letters sent to the National Assembly refers to the fact that there are no rules that there is no possibility of accessing this information, it is not true that this is the case in the criteria decision. However, in our country, of course, if the laws do not apply, how will the decisions that have been adopted still apply. Decision on the criteria for determining this basic salary and criteria for the payment of awards, the performance of directors of public enterprises, agencies and funds whose founder is the Republic of Slovenia - things are of course clearly defined. Article 2 defines: between 50 per cent and 90 per cent of the minister's salary. The amount of the salary within the range referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be proposed by the Minister responsible. This means that no contract can actually be signed if the Minister has not proposed it. Article 4 states: "Despite the second and third points of this Decision, the basic salary of the employee determined in accordance with the decision on the criteria for the conclusion of contracts for the employment of directors of public undertakings, agencies and funds whose founder is the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with this Decision shall not exceed the remuneration of the employees so far." That means if she was even taller, she can't be because she's approved by the minister. This means: but there was something in this area, but this has not been taken into account. Why wasn't it taken into account? I look forward to the Secretary-General's response. Well, if I keep going. Mr Mirko Bandelj, Secretary-General, said in his reply: and the decision dictates, therefore, because of all that this has not been taken into account, they have now decided on the government and adopted one decision. [[...]] In particular, he instructed the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, the Minister for Home Affairs and Human Resources to prepare by the end of June this year a comparative analysis of wage policy for the public and private sectors, where a particular emphasis should be given to the analysis of the differences between the highest and lowest wages and the level of awards paid to members of the boards and supervisory councils. If this decision was adopted by the Government, and so the Secretary-General replied here in the National Assembly that this must be done by the end of June, that is to say, it is expected that today the Secretary-General will explain this information and, of course, to the National Assembly what the government should have given by 30 September last year, but did not give it here today. The second conclusion is that certain criteria need to be overturned. Then there was an additional question where, at my additional request, Mr Secretary-General replied: "I must stress once again that, of course, we cannot obtain acts on the use of cars, apartments and I do not know what else, for directors of public institutions in public companies, because they simply are not." So they can't get the data because they can't get the files because there are no such acts. If there is a recorded use of cars, cards, I don't know, education, technical tools and so on and so on, it can only be written in the contract. And if this contract was previously reviewed by the Minister before it was signed, and now the Minister not only examines that consent, then of course you have all this information and these data are hidden from the National Assembly. But it is not enough that they hide from the National Assembly, more importantly, they hide from the Slovenian public. And then, of course, there are very capable managers behind this, who are, of course, hiding behind an extremely incompetent government policy. But, of course, it's because they run, entrepreneurs have a monopoly and clearly are not in the market, so, of course, such things can, unfortunately, happen. Second. One of the little things that the Secretary-General also replied to was - he says in his reply: "Other. With regard to functionaries, you have therefore received all the acts, including the apartment policy, which clearly shows who and whom and in what way the apartment belongs." Of course, I have to deny the thesis immediately so that someone who is a member of a political party can get it. True, homes that are state - owned are occupied by people who are not in public service. This means first to deny the thesis and then, in the following sentence, to resonate it or to give it an option: some. Although he did not say exactly, it can only be those who are members of the leadership of liberal democracy. It is true, however, that these apartments were granted in the period prior to the entry into force of the 91st and 1992s, and that they had a permanent or permanent lease or residence right - as a result of these names. I ask you, this is my next question today; who and how many of these people - that is, the list of these people - who had this wonderful right from 1991 and 1992. And of course, the question is how many Slovenian young families have you offered this year. Why not have this opportunity for young families who are without everything. Thus, with such a reply from the Secretary-General, of course, on the basis of these documents and these requests, we clearly could not have been satisfied. That is why I have also proposed that this public debate be held. And given that I'm running out of time, I'm only going to count some of those, I'm going to read from a newspaper that's been in the public eye, and some of those names and addresses of companies whose majority owner is a country that goes beyond those decisions that have been adopted in government and still apply, are valid from 80% and, of course, over 100%. In fact, why? This data shows that the highest minister's salary was a million 273, which was Minister Tea Petrin. And I will only read those who go over a million and a half so that I will not take too much time, because of course I also don't have it, these are: Slovenian Iron Company 1.626.000; Slovenian Export Company 2.112.000; Oil Landava - production of oil derivatives - very successful company, as far as I know - a million five hundred nine thousand tolars, then New Bank Maribor million nine hundred forty to not say that there are also no violators of government decisions in Styria; Postal Bank of Slovenia a million seven hundred and eighteen thousand, Holding Slovenian Power Plants. Well, you see, it's also very clear now why Minister Digger said we don't have enough people in Styria to run a holding company. I'd have a salary if I were in one of the poorer congregations for a million gross wages. You know, gentlemen, what does that mean for this congregation? But, of course, they all have to live only in big cities and in big Ljubljana. Post office of Slovenia two million; State Road Company one million five hundred and forty-four thousand. Well, and the Capital Society of Pension Disability Insurance, here is the data common, gross remuneration of three members of the Board for 2002 twenty-five million nine hundred and forty-four. It's still in that rank I was talking about. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u149	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Franci Rokavec has the word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Secretary-General of the Government! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this debate on wage levels, the credit ratings of government officials and directors in public institutions and other public institutions in majority state ownership are useful. Indeed, this year, from April onwards, we are facing a number of questions and initiatives on this subject, on the irregular situation in this area, and therefore we consider it useful to open this debate. Indeed, from the very answers received by the Government as Members and Members, it was clear that there is neither a government nor a state of uniform criteria in this area or in certain areas of these criteria. The fact is, whether we admit it or not, our country is wasteful, we don't worry rationally. First of all, we should see this in the National Assembly, and then, of course, the government. And if we look at these vats, we can figure out that there's actually a lot to do on this level. The reply of the Secretary-General of the Government to the decision of the Elections, Appointments and Mandates Commission, which the President of the Commission received on 22.1. this year, is not satisfactory. If I only briefly say what is written in the end: "Unfortunately, we cannot provide you with a more precise answer to your broad question, but let me point out that all the annexes we have were sent to you along with a letter dated 19.11.2002. They show the criteria on which we allocate individual rights to the officials you mention. We do not keep other records containing the required data because we do not have the authority to do so or are not competent. This applies in particular to individual rights that are supposed to belong to leading persons in companies where the majority owner is a country." We think there's more here. One is the area of the economy and the other is the area of the state administration. First, it is necessary to simplify the criteria for the use of mobile phones, service vehicles, representative funds, the use of service apartments, insurance, credit cards and others in the field of state administration or public administration officials, ministries. From that reply, it is clear that these criteria are not uniform between ministries, let alone in other areas. It is also necessary to define the criteria in all those companies, public institutions and undertakings which are owned by the majority state. And here we run into the second one, which this year was very receptive. These are the salaries of the boards of companies which are owned by the majority state and in which many, especially the presidents of the boards, exceed the government's conclusions on 90% of the remuneration of the department. The panellist mentioned this discussion in the introduction. I will not re-emphasize them, but we can re-read the Youth from 19 May this year, where this list is very extensive and shows who is in violation of this decision of 90% of the Ministry's salary. Another issue that has raised a lot of attention this year is the distribution of awards for the performance of individual companies, which are owned by the State, with regard to the administrations of the distribution of these awards as well as the supervisors. In doing so, we are very sensitive in the Group of Members. We have witnessed this - the Chief Finance Officer and also Officer Mladina - government representatives have not denied the answers of Members and Members of Parliament. There is one global issue here. If the state does not immediately unify the criteria in this area, which would also follow the orientation of the social market system of regulation, then the country has very poorly mirrored the economy in the management of its assets and assets. In this way those healthy foundations of the economy flow in the form of remittances to individuals, in a number of ten million amounts. This, I believe, is already such a sensitive area and such a large majority of the financial resources that the State, on its behalf, and the Government and the National Assembly, should act without delay. We therefore believe that at least two should be done in the Group of Members. First, the Government must immediately establish a system of records on the use of mobile phones, service vehicles, representative funds, service apartments, various forms of insurance, credit cards and other rights used by government officials and other senior government officials and other leading persons in companies and other legal entities owned by a majority of the state. Secondly, we believe that it is necessary to align the salaries of government officials without delay with the decision on the 90 % wage of the Ministry of State, and that the government must enforce the vision of the social market economy in the award of profits to supervisors and the administrations of companies in majority state ownership. It is unacceptable that what happened at the Assembly of the New Ljubljana Bank, that the representative of the State, in the terms "misleaded" the vote and the proposed proposal, which would be shared by the administration, was then also split. We believe that in this case the government has all the tools to act immediately and without delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Kebrich has the floor to speak on behalf of the DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary-General, welcome, colleagues, colleagues! Why did we support the proposal in our parliamentary group to hold this public debate? Because we believe that we have asked a question to the Minister of Finance at the time and because his answers to the salaries were not satisfactory, we have proposed a public debate and have done so. At that time, time was running out for segments of individual areas. Today we have such a segment, wages in the public sector, and I will say the following. I collected a lot of data, which was published either in the public sector or I came to them without violating the Privacy Act. That's why all the information I have is credible and publicly available. In our Balkan group, we believe that the area of wages for all citizens is already when they start to realize that they will, in one way or another, start to earn money, either for their allowance, with such and other actions, or when they start to get into work, and when the time moves away and the earned retirement age approaches, they don't care what their salaries are, compared to the same or the same, or I will say exactly the same work in other sectors, and we are aware that they are not only paying the only criterion of a certain standard, but that it is important something else. For the first time, what pleases you personally, and secondly, what benefits, with foreign ratings, some job offers you an extra job at the same time. We believe that this issue is not from the point of view, I will say, envy or Styrian 'fossov', but for the simple reason that these matters are regulated in the rule of law, with the emphasis on the social state as much as possible. We believe that wages also affect the social situation of individual citizens and the community of citizens living in our country. When we look at comparisons, the most important thing is that, even now, at this time, before the law is adopted in force on 1 January 2004, which is fast approaching, many are trying to arrange for a wide range of measures to be taken at the entry into force, as it is called, as well, since this is happening - and we have also legalized and agreed - that no one should be deprived of it under the new law, because constitutional rights ensure that his situation with regard to acquired rights should not deteriorate. However, this question is not so simple. We had recently had a foreign affairs law, and when they saw that it would have been new in view of the demands they had made at the time, they simply quickly submitted a proposal for a law following a reduced procedure, that we would have arranged that no one would have been deprived of it when the new law entered into force. What I would like to say to the end is that we believe that it is necessary, in fact, that we will not only formally enforce the new law, but that the competent services of this law will also adhere to it, not only respect it, but also implement it as we have adopted it. The public sector wage ratio is expected to be new in the 1:10 range. At that time, we abolished the two lowest classes and also the highest class for the president of the country, because when we pointed out this, we stressed that we need both of them to act on our economic, economic and social occasions, which we are living in. Therefore, the lowest wage must provide not only, as I said at the time, survival, but it must guarantee a decent life for every citizen, because we are now making our own decisions in our own country. On the other hand, we believe that the other wages where the country has its own influence, such as its participation in capital, because it has in the supervisory world, whether it is the majority owner or otherwise important owner, we are not against the fact that they are earnings - I am not talking about wages here, I am talking about earnings, because we are clearing up the salary for successful work, which must be fair and at a time like the statutes of companies or otherwise in the public service - and on the other hand they must not be exploited in the context of the additional ratings for which many are fasting today, but I will not repeat what the predecessors have already said. For me today, if we go in time, it is clear and understandable that mobile or gsm is simply a technical tool and why we should prevent it. All you need to do is settle it so that it's all rational. Maybe someone will say what I'm about to say about the conclusion that it doesn't belong here. I'll prove it belongs. First time. In the same paragraph, I read the first sentence on how Mobitel worked successfully and how big, what a billion profits generated in the first half of the year. What does that have to do with anything? Next contact. They're going to raise the price by 10% on August 1st. And what will be the result? The result will be higher wages again, the result will be decommissioning, increasing the social disparities of those on minimum wages, of those who have wages outside the public sector. We do not oppose the fact that capital also generates profits, of course, and capital creates opportunities for a lot of technology, for better work, for better exploitation, for greater productivity and for greater competitiveness in the market. Thank you to those of you who listened to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u154	Respectable present. Unlike the representative of the Slovenian People's Party, I am personally not impressed with the debate on the subject, for one reason. For the fact is that today's debate for conclusion cannot have a conclusion. In spite of the votes of the Slovenian National Party, the rules of procedure adopted by you in this National Assembly may be followed, but without any conclusion. Given that we know the positions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially at this point, and the Members, last but not least, expressed through the words of Mirk Bandlja, I think this will be another one of those fruitless debates where everyone will give himself some soul, but unfortunately there will be no effect. Given that we are playing with one of the most painful, most criminal substances in our country right now, I think we are only going to achieve something worse than the current situation. Let's make it an introduction. The situation in the state and parastatal markets of wages, awards and financial benefits is, or we do not want to be, the result of the rule of Liberal Democracy. In recent years, liberal democracy has introduced into our system, including the system of wages, an existing system. Who's responsible, we know why he's doing this, we know, and the facts are here. I fear that transparency in the area of payment has existed and will grow along with the strength of this political organisation. However, the intransigence of wages and the resulting ratings have more to do with our assessment than merely talking about irregularities in the payment system, talking about lack of acts and talking about power, as the Secretary-General of the Government has said, but according to our assessment they have a major impact through the micro level and the macro level. Micro level through the creation of caste, political-interest societies, especially during this period, during the period of transition, state wealth is transformed into individual property of individuals close, politically close or capitalally close to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and the impact on the macro level, which we estimate, is even more terrifying, and is taking place through some kind of cost inflation. One of the macro-economic theories that is particularly characteristic and suitable for this period of Slovenia, i.e. for the period when inflation hits our door, and for the period in which politicians do not want to cope with inflation, is that there is also cost inflation. Above all, it should be stressed that, at least in our country, according to our assessment, it is not the cost of working a wide range of people, that is, those who create something, but it is primarily the cost of working some of the individuals they talk about today, and who are dragging behind them the spiral that unfortunately does not see the end until people see and see who is the culprit in this country. My purpose today is not really to speak out politically. All I want is for a number of viewers or those accompanying our debate to see where the cause of the situation is and how the situation can be resolved. Not to mention, for all those who do not know the works of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I think the best moment or the easiest thing to show through the ignorance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the tendency of individual Members to regulate wages by quoting Secretary-General Mirk Bandlje, when he answered the question of the respected colleague Pukšič, who opened the topic before the time.I quote Mr Bandlja: "I must point out once again that you cannot get the acts on the use of housing, and I do not know what else, for the directors of public institutions, public companies, because they are simply not. We can't give them to you because they're gone, and I've made that clear enough." Yes, Mr Bandelj has made it clear enough that there is no interest in this country to monitor the salary system of individuals, individuals close to Liberal Democracy. Capital or political. As long as executive power in our country is led by people whose primary purpose is to try to help those close to them but only to individuals, so long will there be an existing situation in this area. The fact is that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tries through thousands and thousands of sub-legislative acts, various regulations, to regulate individual things, we will not have that much time, and we cannot have any single system that is externally transparent. I'm sorry. The practice of existing rule has shown that such simple things in this country can be complicated if they are shown or regulated through a large majority of the acts, some of which are adopted at this stage, some at that stage. In the Slovenian national side, we are still convinced that with a little good will, and especially with political unburden, we could regulate the issue so that the transparency of the pay system, which the State has an impact on through its shares and similar things, should the responsibility of individual authorities, whether legislative or executive, be greater and, above all, if we were to live up to that belief that the transition should not end in such a way that the entire former state capital would concentrate only within individual deadlines and that these individuals would, of course, elect or organise their operations in the future. I personally assess that the former state capital should belong to all of us or give results that will take place or reflect in the quality of life of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and not just individuals. I personally appreciate and I am very sorry, because at least as far as history has been, this short history of Slovenia has learned, it is clear that things will not change soon. For the last time, or for the conclusion on behalf of the parliamentary group, if we want to make transparency in this area, if we want to make order and if we want to plague this spiral of continued increases in wages, various ratings, awards, subsidies, meetings, we could do so. This could be done by 45 Members, who would order the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through this or that act, in one way or another, although you will say many of you that we cannot order the Government to act in any area. However, since this is not of interest, unfortunately there is no interest in the citizens of this country living better. Many times in recent months, we have heard a debate about the share of socially disadvantaged or people living below the poverty threshold of about 300,000, and that there are 3 to 4,000 people who earn over 2,000,000 dollars a month. Yes, this is a real picture of our rule, this is a real picture of this Parliament and of the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, in my opinion of the incompetent steps or, on the other hand, I am even more afraid of the very capable government which has done it on purpose. If this government is a magician. The robbery did it on purpose, then we are in real danger in Slovenia. But if this is just the fruit of their ignorance, let us hope that the elections will change this ignorance and give others the opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you again very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General! The reason why a person has become more active in this problem is that I have not been born yesterday or the day before. I've been doing this since I've been in this Slovenian Parliament. Data show - economist, Mr. Tina Stanovnik, among other things, said in one of the shows - that over 60% of the total income actually controls 10% of the population and 10% of the poorest population barely 3% of the income. The data of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia show that the number of the poorest, at the lowest level of tax classes, is actually increasing. The Slovenian public has the right to know who and how to use its money and how the person using it is also paid. The question concerns directors and officials who manage this public money. Perhaps the answer is why it is not possible to get information about their salaries in a public and transparent way, hiding at the level of salaries of members of administrations and supervisory councils, namely: the lowest guaranteed Slovenian salary is just over 50,000, a minimum of over 103.000 and an average of just over 241,000 [[all in gross amounts]] However, the wage ratio in the public sector is 1:35 or this ratio is increasing. When we talk about the salaries of directors in companies whose majority ownership is a country, these directors today act very arrogantly, declare themselves effective managers and earn high wages, prizes, and lobby politicians by protecting their companies from foreign competition. There are no words to explain how the state can invest just over 7 billion dollars in the rehabilitation of Elan and the management team spends over a billion and a half dollars for itself, exclusively with the government's permission. Even in the above-mentioned conclusions, which I have presented today, it is clear that the Treaty on criteria for the review of the Minister is clearly stated. Today, the question is whether the privatisation of the public sector is also a result of the European Union or is in the interest of greater efficiency and lower prices. The Slovenian government obviously has no clear idea of this, which has also been shown at the last business conference held in Portorož. Privatisation must aim to create a competitive environment and consequently lower public service prices. How we will force the government to make more order in this area is another issue. What remains for us: the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which makes it impossible for us to take decisions and impose certain duties on the Government by the National Assembly, which has already been said today. So there is no way to accept any conclusions or conclusions. The fact is that the only thing that helps us today is the possibility of alerting the government and, of course, forcing it to change is the fact that today television broadcasts of the national assembly. It would also be important to transfer certain meetings of working bodies and, of course, it would be important that the remaining points of the civil society programme remain, something has to be done, something has to be done. That's actually the only guarantee. The above requirements should also be met in order for the Slovenian public to know that most such managers are, among other things, included in one or more supervisory councils. Their height of meetings is also a very protected secret and there is no reason for it to be. On the basis of decisions adopted, recommendations, etc. The government, the minister, has an insight into this, because they are the same ones who signed certain contracts. These meetings range from 20 to 200 grand per session. Imagine being a member of one, two, or even three such worlds. Of course, there's a whole bunch of other credit ratings to the director. [[payment of insurance to service vehicles, health centres and education]] . I called one of those directors today, or I wanted to ask for information, and they told me he was on vacation. How long? They told me that for three weeks. I said, "Then I'm asking someone to replace him." "Yeah, that's not it. You know, sir, you'll have to wait three weeks." I said, "Well, it's a little hard because I'm calling from the National Assembly, a member of the National Assembly." Well, then they got a little scared, they woke up and they said we'd call back, give us a number, etc. In short, it's not normal. You cannot, if you call a citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, have the same treatment to him as to anyone and there can be no difference between any other and of course the rest of us. If we look at just one example of Mrs Klemenčičeva, the Director of the Triglav Insurance Company, who in addition to the above-mentioned privileges earned 2.1 million gross wages per month in 2001, increased her ownership by raising social capital and borrowing over a million euros. This is how they worked in Elan, and in the last ten minutes, I will also present this. She was awarded a prize when she left this job, and she's still said to be in the insurance company, 54 million tolars of retirement. Citizens and citizens! This means 150 square meters of residential area in the middle of the white Ljubljana. It's a misdemeanor. Of course, there are many such cases. That we are something special in this, of course, is also a comparison with the West, because there are directors from 30 to 65% of their salary, depending on their success. Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, it's not to believe, but it's true. This is what they say is that all salaries in the public sector in the country, according to available data, exceed 500 billion tolars. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 was about 1220 billion tolars there. 500 billion to pay. Where are the 100,000 unemployed? How do we change that? The way began with the initiative of civil society. What do we have? What else do we have? We're left with an economic reform of the coalition. God forbid. For 10 years, 12 years, they've shown what they know and can do. You, the Slovenes and the Slovenians, are left to change that, but unfortunately, it's not until next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Shirca. I can't see her right now. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Drobnič. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u158	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! Since we were not satisfied with Mr Bandl's response to the ratings and the level of salaries of directors of public institutions and businesses, this debate was launched. We were not satisfied with the answer, but at the same time we are not satisfied with the situation that prevails in this area. That's perfectly clear. And what are the odds? In view of the legislation adopted on public and public servants, we can expect that the area of civil servants, as well as public institutions, will be regulated to some extent. However, there are still open public economic services and state-owned companies, i.e. those companies when they occur on the market. For us, the most important is the regulation of public enterprises and institutions. As far as state-owned enterprises are concerned, this is a completely different issue. For the country is in transition and therefore there is still a lot of state property in that area which is on the market in the competitive sector and where different conditions of employment and remuneration apply. Public companies and institutions perform public service, public function and have no competition. That area, those tasks are in the hands of the state. Therefore, wages must be transparent, in advance known. And not only does he pay, but we call it ratings in the modern language. The question is whether or not there is negotiation in this area in individual contracts. I tell you clearly, there is no negotiation here. There's no negotiation. Just like the civil servants. Of course, the issue remains state-owned. Are the wages there secret or are the negotiations in place? They're not the biggest problem we've seen, they're the problem, they're the wages themselves, they're the biggest problem, they're the ratings, and maybe the biggest problem is what's behind, what's hiding. Not directly, but indirectly through some other ratings, under the term, "dash-dam." Why is such a situation taking place in Slovenia? Because of the policy of this coalition, and in particular the Liberal Democrats, because it builds a type of corporate state. Yeah, you heard right. If you look at the periods in which these corporate states appeared, you can find, mostly in the 20th and 30th years of the previous half year, that everything is subordinated to the political summit, that compulsory chambers belonging to the oligarchy, that unions and other associations are subject to this influence. It's, unfortunately, Slovenia. It is also worrying that it is somehow stressed that it is good because the Liberal Democracy and this power, which is now a position or policy in the current position of power, has good relations with entrepreneurs, managers, with top-notch, I don't know, advisers and much more. No, my dear, it's not good to have these connections! There must be a distance in this segment. Therefore, Nova Slovenija does not collect lists of popular managers and does not refer or invite them into its circles because it wants to maintain distance. Terrible things are happening, as has been said, differences in Slovenia. Differences in salaries may exist if they are based on marketed positions, only this, not through privileges. The case, as said by colleague Pukšič, if the company receives a so-called private company, which is not private at all, Elan, most of the income in one year from the country as a grant, then certainly the manager does not affect the business result to a large extent. It is so clear that in this case, the rules of award should be different. We have made this quite clear and these profits are unfair, although they may be smaller than the winner of Becker at the Wimbeldon tournament, he competed in a competitive in all the open sector or market. Not this time. That's why the president of the country is asking where the soul is. Of course, the soul is lost in all this misery in this mud. I hope we find her. Unfortunately, he also believes that we cannot take decisions, but even if we had adopted conclusions, I will tell you that the conclusions would probably not have come true. For the first time, it would be a question of what government we could even hang, what obligation. When we say so, this executive power does its own thing, it has its own responsibility. The only thing is, viewers and listeners hear what's going on in our country, and it's not everything that's supposed to be. The pay system for the state sphere, for the public sphere, for public undertakings, must be clearly defined in the future. All those who compete for these positions, but this is a public service in the broader sense of the word, must know in advance what awaits them. However, the system of remuneration can be flexible, for the state sector less, for public economic services more and, as I have already said, that transitional relic of state-owned market enterprises remains. There is also a segment of monopolistic companies in other countries, which are partly on the market, but there is also a pre-remuneration principle. If we do not manage this, Koržeta will continue to appear in Elan, Voljčiv banka, where they continue to do their work, receive good awards and so on, regardless of what happens to commentants, what happens to the operation of the bank, which is the largest bank in Slovenia, and much more. And if we don't, we will continue to have a nice hunting ground for corruption, and neither the ethical commission nor the anti-corruption agencies will do anything to help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The debates between Members and Members are now under way. John Sponik has the word. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. The topic on the agenda is important, and it would certainly be good if we could take a decision on this, even better if someone did. Salaries in the public sector have been the wound of the Slovenian executive for a long time. There is still no systemic solution available, although it has been promised several times in the past and even recently. The system's out of order. There are professions, there are jobs in the public sector that are underpaid and, of course, there are areas where wages are too high. In particular, where there is some result, some income is achieved on the basis of a monopolistic position or on the basis of some non-market ratings. In these recent transition years, a narrower layer of this political transition elite has been formed, which has taken the lead in public enterprises, in public institutions, where people continue with the decision of the executive or political authority and where income - this is another characteristic - is not achieved with the results of work and good business. In general, two significant cases have been reported in the public, but there are still many, perhaps even larger ones, but because he was not publicly known, we do not know him. They were mentioned in part, this is the case of Elena and the case of the insurance company Triglav. It's Elan's huge transfer of executive power. There, on the basis of the contributions made by the taxpayers' money, billions of awards were paid by the people put there by the executive branch, through the development society or whatever this constantly changing institution is called. The government gave money, the government put up people, and the government tolerates it when these individuals paid billions of rewards. And he's acting like he doesn't have the means to solve it. Even though we all know that's not true. Another example is the Triglav Insurance Company, where the leading years and years paid off various ratings, at the end of the retirement, in the midst of the prize, in shares and in money in the ten million and also in the cent million. This happened in the eyes of the Slovenian public, in the eyes of the executive authority, in the eyes of the guardian of the state property. The insurance company Triglav was and is still majority state-owned. The excuse that things weren't arranged was, of course, ridiculous. And finally, there are people who have achieved some success because the government has been allowing for ten to fifteen percent of the higher premiums that we have paid, which we have secured cars, houses, or whatever. It was not some remarkable success in the market, for rich competition, but a monopolistic position, with the support of political power. In the end, they paid 50 million and more. No one reacted to that. There was talk of irregularities, some institutions that were at least close to each other, such as the Insurance Supervisory Agency, found a type of irregularity. But the D.A. didn't even get around to these cases. At the same time, I think we read about a good month ago in the newspaper that the court condemned the former mayor of Sveti Jurij because he was to pay his daily allowance of 18,000 tolars unjustifiably. One year on probation, if I'm not mistaken, he got first degree. That's how much I'm supposed to pay off my unjustifiable daily allowance for a day of $18,000. Here, the so-called liberal-law state reacted. But when it comes to a billion four hundred million in Elan, no one reacts. Mrs Cerarjev, a political prosecutor-general, said that every pig is not yet a crime. You could say, bigger shit, less chance of a crime, and the prosecution going on about it. Fully transparent double criteria. Last week, the government presented a programme for effective entry into the European Union. The title is to expect such a document in 1995, 1996 when we decided to negotiate the entry into the European Union. The negotiations set these conditions so that this programme is five years too late. We would now need a development programme in the European Union. However, despite the fact that the title is wrong, in this program the government promises to deal with some of the problems and goals it cites, including reducing wage growth in general. It notes that wages in Slovenia are too large and promises through the so-called deindexation of some other measures to reduce wage growth for all. But there is nothing to mention about these cases that we are now talking about. If the government is unable to ensure that people who are placed in public companies themselves will respect its own decision on the level of wages, although it can do so very easily, ensure such respect, only one of these changes and everyone else will respect it, but of course they do not change or replace themselves, but they are tolerated. As long as there is no order, the government has no right to predict the freezing of wages to others until it itself is capable of making order. And he doesn't have any moral authority to do that. That's clear. That is why this list of goals in this program sounds more like some nice wishes. And at this point, once again, there is no possibility of realisation until the government is able to make order with itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! To discuss the ratings and the level of salaries of directors of public institutions and businesses in most state-owned enterprises is to discuss the pay system in our country as a whole. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are convinced that in the debates on this subject we need to focus on what is actually happening to us in practice in the implementation of the wage policy, both the public and the real sector. The fact is that we do not manage income policies sufficiently, that wage differentials are increasing and that statistics are sometimes one and life shows us completely different images. The perception of people about social distribution, which is also a result of wage policy, ratings, awards and other privileges of leading structures, is alarming in all public research. Wage analyses show that wage differentials are increasing according to statistical data between sectors. Although some of the data on the salaries of employees under individual contracts shows that wage differentials have decreased over the past few years, especially the exceptional rewards we have seen in some companies, banks, insurance companies, are completely undermining the image of social justice and for most people also from the income perspective of an acceptable remuneration policy. If we add to these data various market transactions that allow individuals to gain so-called overnight enrichment through the abuse of internal information acquired in closed elite circles, we can find that such social development is unacceptable if we want to ensure social cohesion between people and the appropriate motivation of everyone in society for further development. In fact, it is even worse, because when we talk about decomposition, the disappearance of the so-called middle class is often overlooked even by the additional elements of differences such as taking into account property as an element of the welfare of individuals and social groups. We have also created huge differences in property through the process of denationalising and privatising social property, which rightly disturb people. Thus, current expenditure from wages, prizes and other ratings, with data from property income and the actual wealth situation of the social elite, shows much greater social disparities than actual statistics detect. In particular, these differences are painful when they do not stem from the actual work and efforts of individuals. It is therefore difficult for us to agree that there is no growing poverty and social dispersion and that there is no excessive income inequality, as demonstrated by individual institutes and authors in various studies and analyses. We all know that statistics can often be interpreted in any way, even in a variety of ways. While some argue that there are no major social differences caused by the wrong income and tax policy of the country, we can nevertheless find that, according to the statistics, the euro stands and the OECD, Slovenia, according to income inequality, belongs to the very top of Europe. A comparison of the wage situation of those 10% who earn the most, with the wages of those 10% who earn the least, shows us the ratio 1:3, or in some analyses even 1:3.4, which is among the highest in Europe, as such ratios exceed only in the UK, after some analyses it is possible in Spain, Greece, perhaps in Hungary and Poland. The normal ratios for Europe in such income comparisons by decile are between 1:2 in Sweden, where income differences are lowest, and up to 1:2.5 in most other European countries. We are paying for the creation of our own capitalists with one of the biggest income inequalities in Europe, and of course the public sector and public sector wages also contribute. The salaries of directors of public enterprises, agencies, funds and companies, majority owned by the State, are regulated in a variety of ways. Most of these salaries are to be regulated in accordance with the 1997 and 1998 decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where the starting points have been established in relation to ministerial salaries in different percentages and between 50% and 90% of the remuneration of the Minister. In fact, in practice, such a starting point for wage setting has also been taken into account, but not entirely consistent. In this way, we have occasionally been able to track in the media data on the salaries of individual electricity companies, in mines, in health care and elsewhere in the public sector, which also in multiples exceeded the salaries of the district ministers. The criteria of the management association, which are the basis for determining the salaries of directors in real-sector companies, have also been applied in some public companies, funds and institutions, which is certainly not right. We have already pointed out the problems of wage differences over the entire period of independence. We have supported all activities that have contributed to reducing the pay gap. As a result of the increase in wage differences, we have already passed a law on the actual lowest and highest pay paid, which has limited the differences between the highest and lowest wages. This law has also established the concept of minimum wage, as the minimum actual income of an individual for normal work, which in the coming years has become a component of social agreements on income policy and has made an important contribution to the fact that wage differentials have not increased so dramatically. Nevertheless, we can see that, from our proposals at the time, between the lowest and highest wages in the whole country 1:12, both in the public and private sectors, these ratios have increased to 1:20 today, and to 1:50 and more in the private sector. As regards some other ratings, we have also proposed various solutions in our parliamentary group to the National Assembly, which have contributed to reducing income differences. We have therefore proposed to amend the Company Act, which reduced the number of salaries paid as a retirement to managers in the event of non-criminal dismissal to a maximum of six wages, which this National Council has adopted. Unfortunately, both the first and the second laws had only a limited duration, only until the adoption of the first amendments to both laws. Data on income differences following the analysis of income returns also show very large income differences. Although wages in the income of individuals after these analyses do not amount to more than 70%, in 2001 we were able to record quite a few reported incomes, over 100 million per year, which is a very large difference compared to the poor million annual wages of the lowest paid employees. These differences are particularly painful if we take into account data that in certain activities such as textile production, leather, wood processing, the average wages of employees under collective agreements barely exceed the minimum wage of 30%. Thus, it is no longer possible to achieve any incentive differences between the salaries of employees, since they have virtually equal salaries for those employed in the first grades. It is certainly possible to stimulate employees in the public sector better, since the minimum wage in education, health and social protection is only 30 to 40% of the average wage in activities, as opposed to those mentioned above, where the minimum wage reaches as much as 65 and 75% of the average wage of employees in activities. This also shows a large income gap, although we must take account of the very different qualification structure of employees in this activity. Unfortunately, such a income policy only drives creative experts away from the real sector because we urgently need them. From good developers, commercialists and other economic experts, we make average administrative workers and an average and uninterested administrative elite with an appropriate level of education, but not enough motivation, since it was educated for other works. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we therefore find today's debate on salaries and other ratings of elites in the public sector important, as we must take into account that their income also affects income differences across society. That seems to be the most important thing to us. This affects the perception of employees in a social and income-based society. The new Public Sector Wages Act imposes a reduction in the wage ratio in the public sector to 1 to 10 and the elimination of current income abnormalities among employees. For this purpose, we must continue to work in this national assembly. We will work on this in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. She doesn't. Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I also applied myself to this debate, and I supported Mr Puksic's proposal at the time. Although the findings were both on one side of Mr Kebrich and on the other side of our Group of Members, why we supported this, by some Members, I hope that they have produced fruit in their own way. In fact, today, when we discuss this, Rada Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, has taken the initiative into his own hands, and the story of the payment classes has also turned glass in the government. And that's progress. For I read this on the Internet or on TV Pika in the announcement that Minister Rado Bohinc took the sequences into his hands today and convened a meeting on this very topic that we are discussing today. But I'd like to say the following. In my previous term as a Member, I have often been the target of attacks on my salary. The media, often with their presence in our house - and also rightly - have focused on the salaries of Members of the National Assembly. However, I am very pleased that some of the officers in this mandate take the time to analyse certain net and gross personal benefits in the public sector and in those public companies that are majority owned by the State. I was very glad that I could see for myself in what way and where it works, if I may say so, my wages, given that the controversy about parliamentary salaries was always hot in all Slovenian media. Dear fellow Members, today we can see that many of the functions in this country are better paid than Members. And some individual journalists have noticed that and have warned of that. However, if the state, especially the government, wants to act in a stabilising manner and also implement certain reforms, I think it is time for us to adopt a decision on the functions and payment classes in this area. However, there is certainly great responsibility for the government representative sitting among us today, the Secretary-General of the Government. The opposition here today is right in some respects. Who is the one in the government who allowed, despite the government's decisions, to raise the gross personal income of some directors who had 90% of the minister's wages in the previous government? What has the government done in this area, and what has the Secretary-General, who is the first to be called in the government, done to ensure the enforcement of the Government's decisions? Undoubtedly, some have retired, returned from retirement and today receive two million gross personal benefits, earn more than the Prime Minister, earn more than the President of the country! They deserve more than the President of Parliament and more than anyone else who has any function in the country. I cannot argue, and I say this in front of the entire Slovenian public, that some of the state's functions, particularly the Prime Minister, the State, Parliament, could not be higher by the pay grade. However, following that list published by Mladina, honourable fellow Members, some of the amounts of the Secretary of State and others are also much higher than the amounts of some fellow Members and ministers. Ministers are responsible for their work, for the work of some companies, some institutions and they are making less money than their subordinates. Who ordered members of the Supervisory Boards to take decisions for certain directors in public companies to increase their gross personal income? Surely this is not the responsibility of the national assembly or the parliamentary group. This issue will have to be addressed by the government and the Secretary-General at the government meeting, they are responsible and to arrange it. The Secretary-General of the Government, one of the reasons why I called in this Chamber today, is also this document, which is a draft working group document for the drafting of the decree, and to make it clear to you and to all the Slovenian public, where and in what way and by whom, after this draft in the payment classes. It is normal for the President of the Republic to take first place in the second or 63rd class, the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Supreme Court in the 62nd class, the President of the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman and the Attorney General. He also believes that it is important for the Slovenian public to know which payment grade Members are in. Let them find out where we are and who is ahead of us after this draft working material is being prepared by the working group in the government. The emissary is in the 54th grade with a gross personal allowance of 795 thousand tolars! It is interesting, however, who is in the public administration before the MP of the national assembly, to let the Slovenian public know how much and how they are evaluated after this draft working function of some in the state administration. In front of the Member, which is normal, is the President of the State Council, the Judge of the Constitutional Court, the President of the State Audit Commission, the Secretary-General of the Republic, the Secretary-General of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General of the Government, the Secretary-General of the Constitutional Court, the Minister, the Mayor 1. Before the 54th class, where we are Members, there is also the Supreme State Auditor, Minister Councillor and Secretary of State. In the 57th class, including before the Member, the Secretary of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly, the Registrar of the Court of Auditors, the Secretary-General of the Ombudsman, the Advocate General, the Chief Justice, the Attorney General. In the 56th class, there is an adviser to the President of the Republic, a member of the State Audit Commission, a President of the Parliamentary Commission, a Secretary of the State Council, and then a Member comes. This is a picture of the draft working material for the preparation of the February 2003 resolution for payment classes, which I have also sent to you, honourable Members, personally to each of you. But this is the relationship of the working group, on the one hand, to this branch of power, to the national assembly, to Members and on the other hand to the executive branch of power. And if these classes were to compare further, they would find that those who are in the end did not gain anything, but those who were listed here, and they jumped hard in the government. And if such a decree comes with such content on our bench, the Secretary of Government, you are one of the responsible alongside the Minister of the Interior, this document, me and probably a number of fellow Members or colleagues will not support it. This is not a relation to the National Assembly, this is not a relation to public finances, this is not a relationship to the pay grade. That is why I have also decided to speak to the Slovenian public about how and how the material is prepared, where Members are quoted, where secretaries-generals are quoted, where secretaries-generals are quoted, where ministers are quoted, and where directors who are responsible for their work are quoted directly or indirectly, and in the majority ownership of the country that is responsible to the Minister-General. It does not seem right to me that the minister responsible for the field work, for the department, has half a gross salary or a third less personal income than the one who is subordinate to him who is responsible to the Minister for his work. That is why I am glad that this debate in the National Assembly has broken out and that it has received support. Not only that he also started active work in this area today, but also the Minister of the Interior. And I would have ended it. I think that if the word in this house is in the right place at the right time, it can only produce fruit and produce fruit. I warn you, however, that you are an influential man in the government, you are responsible for the government's decisions, including those of the previous governments, the Drnovsko government that have been adopted, as well as the supervisors, if I may so appoint them, who have been placed in the supervisory councils of public enterprises, directly responsible for their work to the government, and if they have not done their work, initiate the procedure and replace them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Bajuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am really afraid that in some sense this debate is going in the wrong direction in many ways. It is interesting to hear the representatives of the great coalition express their concern about what we have been alerting all of us in the opposition for a long time, and this is a dispersion in Slovenia; this issue is now primarily about wage levels. It is true that there is a great mess here, and I hope that we will hear more from the government than we have heard so far. However, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this National Assembly or a large coalition in the National Assembly will not take any very clear views on what is the wound of the Slovenian transition, and this is the transformation and privatisation of social property, that this is a great diversion. Because here, right here in this area, is that key source that is the cause of all that today seems to concern a lot of people. How can it be that today we hear the representatives of the parties of the great coalition express their concern about all this while they are not listening at the same time - at least until now they have not shown it, and I do not know if anything will really happen in the next five hundred days. But I have a feeling you've all agreed on Sunday that you're all going to the opposition. The fact is, we are alerting you to the key things that we do not get any response from you. And this is, for example, the question of how to design sales of things that are state-owned, how to do it, is done in an untransparent way. I insist in my assessment that this is a planned way, impreciseness is not a coincidence with us, in Slovenia. The government has the material prepared by the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana to shape the development of the capital market in Slovenia. You don't want to hear a word about this. However, the sale of state property through the grey market is still planned. Today we have had a chance to talk about this and I will have to say it again: Mr President, the gray market is nice, as I would say, a very clear name for what is happening to us here - it is gray because it is opaque, it is gray because it is not controlled, and it is gray because it hides very much dirt. But the big coalition doesn't want to talk about these things. And today we know that according to the plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Company concentrated its investments from 1,300 companies to 354. Personally, I don't mind if something like this happens. At the same time, they are not prepared to take any steps to start financing these companies in an open organised capital market. What do we hear? Yes, we now hear the great officials of the Securities Market Agency, how they are heartbroken, where we came to, we have no control, the legislation needs to be amended by respectable colleagues and colleagues, the fig has to be amended! [[...]] Only political will must be defined and clearly defined in this regard! But who has the right in the normal system to decide to start things, these transactions begin to take place in an organised market. Yes, the owner! Who owns it? The owner is a Slovenian state, but the Slovenian government is responsible. And why is there no answer? Ladies and gentlemen, they don't want another answer. As we are now, up to these 500 days remaining, we have yet another opportunity to complete this savage privatisation that has now been carried out all these ten years, and there is not a single mention of this in the Prime Minister's programme. That's not what we're talking about. And you know what that means if you don't talk about it? That you planned this to continue. And if this continues, then it will be an additional source, which is the distribution in Slovenia, that certain groups of properly informed and very well connected people will have access to buy at very low prices what was their social property and for which this national assembly decided to go at least to a certain extent to the citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Here, if you are concerned about the spread in Slovenia, then start to advocate transparency and for the development of the capital market in Slovenia Because if we do not develop the capital market as we have not yet developed, then we should not be surprised that we will have certain problems and problems are very, very clear and do not need to be unaware of any specialist for this. Do you remember well what was the only thing the Slovenian had or the Slovenian had during the hyperinflation? What kind of means did they have? They used to buy stamps in black, and they got them in blue. Isn't that right? What happens now? Well, that won't be necessary now. The only way, however, is to create a new option, the possibility of investing in foreign institutions. Yeah, where? I guess it's not Slovenian, but if we don't give them minimum credibility, if there's no companies to invest in. Then we ask ourselves and listen to speeches, talk and talk about national interest. The only national interest today is to introduce transparency, develop a domestic capital market and create the possibility that Slovenian and Slovenians will be able to invest in their own economy. Why don't you do it? Why don't you do it? Why haven't you done it yet? And that's not a nuisance of the opposition. This is precisely the strategy developed by its own experts, Slovenia, the leader among them, these groups and the current finance minister. Why isn't that done? Why is there no talk about the economic programme of the Prime Minister, which you have now accepted so solemnly? There is no talk about this, because there is a different plan, and this plan is, to continue to keep such conditions on the domestic soil, which will ensure this impossibility and legalise all that is a source of decomposition that seems to concern you. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! If you are concerned about the spread in Slovenia, it is time for action, it is time to do a little more here in the National Assembly than we listen to speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Victory Jelinčič has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. I would add only a few thoughts to this debate, which has already been said. In fact, I would first touch on what he said at the outset on behalf of the National Party's Group of Members, Mr Peca, that the proposals in the debate make no sense, because we are not making any decisions in this debate at all. I don't think that's true. This debate is still very useful. Earlier, a fellow Member, Mr Kangler, had said what moves are already in view, which we certainly welcome, but although they are late, they are useful. Nevertheless, here is the Secretary-General of the Government, who can, in fact, determine on the basis of the debate what the whole core of the problem is, and the government has all the tools to act where it does not have them, but can go beyond the legal proposals for appropriate solutions. Finally, what has already been said today does not surprise us why no agreement has yet been reached with the public sector wage unions. Indeed, in view of the government's current policy in this area, it is probably understandable that, on the one hand, both the Home Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs could not be as convincing. If you treat yourself in a wasteful way, you cannot get someone else or the whole crowd to accept the freezing of August’s wages. But if we really want to be serious about reforming the public financial system, which will be necessary in the coming year, then we will probably have to tighten the belt here. The country will be able to tighten its belt first. And in fact, Mr Secretary-General, it is unacceptable what was recorded in the Finance newspaper this year with the reverberating title Elan from a billion profits to 400 million rewards for members of the board. And these board members also came up with a scenario on how to launch this profit in such a way through appropriate foundations, in order to increase their equity share and, of course, to bypass the payment of the profit tax. So it's like cheating on the country. However, the country has a 30% share through the capital fund. On the question I asked here in Parliament - nothing; but the mountain was shaking, a mouse was born. These are just some examples of how it is literally created, artificially created, by modern-day state capitalists. Not those capitalists - genuine capitalists actually earn bread with their work, but at the expense of the State certain individuals, legal persons gain substantial, substantial sums of money in the sky and here we are fundamentally moving away from the principle of social justice. I believe that, after today's debate, it is high time for the government to really approach the reform of public finances, which will be urgently needed in the coming year, in order to thoroughly review all government-funded expenditure at government level and beyond. There is something else, namely, that we need to have a relationship with institutions in the country, with the President of the State, with the Prime Minister, with the National Assembly, with the Government and with other institutions. What has been happening lately is literally a planned system of destruction and evaluation of the role and importance of the National Assembly. I probably shouldn't have let that happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General of the Government! I also agree that today's debate is extremely important, and I hope that the media, which I hope are not on the side of those who are actually drinking blood unjustly to those who have blistering hands, will pass it on. It is broadcast on television, which is extremely important and therefore has a greater reverberation among people. Of course, it is no wonder that the discard launched by Members, my colleague Pukšič and I, for tomorrow's meeting, on the resolution of social problems in some regions where 40 Members have applied for the debate, which has not yet happened, that you, the government, have stopped immediately at the next meeting. I think there were six national debates that are extremely hot, and you've rejected everything - seven even! Even from your own party, when someone realized a problem, you turned it down. Today it turned out, my colleague Kangler said that the members of his delegation and DeSUS were under extreme pressure because they supported these debates. The Member should not express himself freely. And you don't even allow debate in the National Assembly, even though you see how pressing this is! And because of this, of course, all of today's debate shows, and this is quite clear that these imbalances, this planned plundering of state property through these abnormal wages, are part of your government's plan, your party. Part of the plan! And here there is a conscious thirst among those who are in such positions that you have allowed them to do so are not themselves guilty of having twice, three times the wages of ministers, Members and so on, and this is a fraction of their income, a fraction! Most of us, if we were to go through the control councils, we know who, the banks, what, another hundred million for the control councils, 80 million and so on! It's huge! And the hand washes, you use this rule, or give it to the ladies. Of course, you are aware that if you cut this off, you will be significantly reduced in your client's income to finance election campaigns. Such directors, who are so privileged, who are allowed to do so - the government says that since 1997, it has been trying to do something about it, and it has prevented - of course, they are generous when it comes to hiring an ensemble on the electoral campaign, and so on. Your candidates had nobless at the pre-election assemblies. A lot of money. And the voters will eventually realize that this money has not been given by the candidates and is nothing and that through the theft of state money you have financed all of this. Look, my friend Rokavec has already mentioned Elan and these enormous awards. The government can't break that contract, even this year it was a congregation, they're all committed to ending it, but it can't be done. You can't because there's 400 million awards for one year. Which is a fraction of what was taken last year. And, of course, according to related relationships, the same case, for example, was in the Maribor Vehicle Factory. For asset management, the annual prize in two years is a million 200 thousand marks. A million 200, a property management award. The company is now on the verge of bankruptcy. However, it was known earlier when it was opened, but the Prime Minister, at the time, I think he even made an effort in Maribor, the mayor of Maribor, and everyone supports it. And, of course, these are related relationships. It's related. From Ljubljana, it was necessary to send the director to Maribor, because, as Pukšič says, it would be a sin to charge his income there. Because there are no smart people in Maribor, in your opinion. And that's why a lot of changes will have to be made, including the electoral system. And that's the plan! It's a conscious job, and I know you're aware of that. But this struggle for power is so strong that you are willing to overlook every injustice, every exploitation, every plan to create actually these state capitalists, as colleagues Rokavec put it. We have to say, we don't mind. There are plenty of those capable people who have come to an asset by their work, by their hard work, by their ability. But not by allowing this clientele, in fact the state, the government, to make wild privatisation possible, and here it flows from one pocket to another pocket. At the same time, your country is actually whimpering. This economic stabilisation plan, you'd say, you'd probably say when you were young, was stabilisation, that's what it was called. This is a confession that you brought the country to the brink of collapse. Now that we should flourish when we are admitted to the European Union; now that we should finally start a period when we should give something to some ordinary worker. If an ordinary worker had some social security, as in Scandinavian countries, in Western European countries, now the Prime Minister is talking about freezing wages, but he is not talking about this category of people we are talking about today, who are getting revenge in every possible way. And we could save billions here. You'll save money there, but you'll have to take it away, squeeze it even harder, make more poor, make more poverty, so that in Brussels you can show that you're doing something. The country is a criminal and injustices are increasing from year to year. It goes exponentially. All these seem to be the ones sent from God, the messiahs who can be suctioned like leeches on a country's body. The authorities, your client allows them to do that. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! At least some of you think about it. Here you need a deep catharsis, not to share a floscule as you will In five years it has been said that you will arrange something. [[...]] I must say that the previous Vice-President of the Government, Mr Podobnik, has actually been very active in this and paid the price, of course, because it is better to remove it and to sink it to the ground than to reduce the privileges for the entire clientele. Anyone who's gone into this because it's a conscious policy in this country has lost their minds. I urge you to finally do something. We can't take decisions today. However, I hope that the Slovenian public is so informed that it is aware that this is actually the greatest cancer of our society. The creation of this social distribution, a handful of super-rich people who have actually invested nothing of their knowledge and not their money, on the other hand, 70 percent of the people who are born, I don't know where, against poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The next one, last one, Stanislav Brenčič, is gone. That's how my list of discussers is exhausted. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Here you go, Mr. Puksich. Then we would ask Mr Bandl who has not yet come to the floor today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary-General! Well, not only after this debate, but after all that is happening, the question is, where is the root of this? While I was pleased by the debate of one of the members of the coalition, he said that it was necessary to put this on the sidelines. Yes! However, this cannot be put on the brink of action as far as the ruling coalition is concerned. The ruling coalition is one that has scissors and a canvas that has more than half of its Members. If he has more than half, you rule, that means you can make decisions. If you don't have it, you're in the opposition, if you're in the opposition, you can only point out the irregularities that those who have the government are doing. See, the legislation on local self-government - there we have written down that we will punish the mayor with 500 000 tolars if anything goes wrong with working in local self-government. Right. I voted in favour of such an article at the time, which proposed it. But you will remember a little later, when we wanted to get this article's text to ministers in the law on budget implementation, it was impossible. So the minister is untouchable. But you can't punish a minister if there are irregularities, etc. Just remember, colleagues and colleagues, those who were in the previous mandate, what the report of the Court of Auditors on the work, the spending of taxpayers' money at the Ministry of Defence, led by our fellow Member Jelko Kacin. Catastrophe. And what were the sanctions? It's nothing, then. Remember, so what happened in the last two months when we changed the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund. 14 days in between without justice and what was happening at the time. How many jobs have been done, which would have prevented this if legislation were in force. And why so many irregularities? Also because we have taken decisions in this National Assembly in the previous term and in the previous term, we have also taken decisions on the Commissions of Inquiry, which unfortunately, some Members and Members did not have to present in accordance with the legislation of the National Assembly. Although the reports were adopted on these commissions set up by the National Assembly. Because something has already been said about Elan today and because it raises a question, as also in these salaries of directors of funds, institutions, institutions, public institutions, etc.; in short, companies where the country has more than 50% of the share, there are conclusions that should be taken into account and, of course, if not, sanctioned. Earlier in my introductory part, I had proved that there was no reason for the government not to have all this information across the street, and I even believe it has it. But why didn't anything happen? Colleagues and colleagues, also because it was allowed at the time of the property, at the time of the theft of the social property all. There have been so many irregularities as have happened, say, only with regard to Elan. When more than a few million individuals in German brands took the money into the company’s account and, of course, the charges were written for it, but the judgment was not handed down because the cases were outdated. In particular, when we received the State Prosecutor's Office's report, it states that under points one, two and three, the charges against those for reasons of limitation have been rejected. Next thing you know, she's out of time again. The reason for such an accusation was, for example, that the financial director and the director made it possible for themselves and anyone else at the company's expense to rent a loan for half a million German brands. Reports written by the courts, by the prosecution and so on - none of this has happened. And today, to say that you will now prepare, change, and so forth is an illusion or no real basis for anyone else to believe. Another way of doing this was by adopting some special laws. You will recall the act on measures to remedy the economic situation of Tam Maribor. The law stated how it would be remedied, how a billion 200 million money would be spent on preserving jobs from the Ministry of Labour and the family, I don't know. That the government will monitor the implementation of this law every quarter. None of this happened! That the funds provided for in this law will be spent on projects or on a rehabilitation programme that will be prepared, first by law enforcement, then through a rehabilitation programme and, of course, through a final recovery programme. Colleagues and colleagues, nothing like that ever happened. Unfortunately, it has happened and it has happened that today we have a small number of rich, not rich, shamelessly rich individuals, who have enriched at the expense of thousands of people who are unemployed today, at the expense of thousands living on the brink of poverty, at the expense of thousands who are from areas such as Styria and Prekmurje, with the highest unemployment, with the lowest quality of life. Today, such legislation on regional development and the law on the financing of municipalities, which is unacceptable - in short, all we have is that which does not guarantee people in these areas a secure future when they join the European Union. The responsibility for this is, be aware, to you, the government coalition, and you must pay this responsibility with the price you are going to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Bandelj, Secretary-General, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I think that there has been a very useful debate today, and that it is also at the right time, given the fact that projects are currently being prepared in the government for the implementation of the law on public sector wages. However, for the introduction, I would first say that the Secretary-General of the Government under the Government Act is obliged to carry out coordination and professional tasks for the government, as instructed by the President, to take care of the preparation of government meetings, to carry out other tasks relating to the organisation of work in government and government services, but, of course, to the public sector system itself, to be responsible under the law on the State Administration of the Ministry of Interior, and to the field of labour relations and rights of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I am not saying this because I would like to run away from the responsibility of the government and of course from my personal question, but I am speaking because I want to tell you that, of course, the question sent as it was raised may not have been fully addressed to the right address and that, as a result, even in my answers I have given, it was possible for some shade of information to be incomplete, and in particular I would say that I would probably be overly self-critical in my implementation. Then I'll explain what I meant by that. In any case, I must simply say that, in view of the question raised by me, and also in the light of the letters and calls made by the Commission for the elections and appointments of the National Assembly, I have provided all the data and all the information I have or am in charge of and am in charge of. I think the answer was very precise, and it was also quoted to a large extent, and it was also abused in one part, and that's the part where I talked about housing, and that's why I'm going to say it again. The dwellings owned by the State are occupied by different people, and there are also some who are no longer civil servants, who are no longer state officials, and the fact is that they received these apartments because they had the housing right that was generally granted by the then Demos government and therefore, of course, by the law of Jasbinsk, so-called - they were justified or redeemed in 1991, I have to say that there were 137.000 such citizens, believe me, I cannot list them, and that there are some 77,000 such citizens who still live in such apartments and pay for this non-profit rent and have a permanent lease. The government no longer confers such rights because there is no longer any legal basis for this, since October 1992. I must also say that, of course, we are not hiding anything in the government, and I also think that we are not ignorant to the National Assembly, meeting the requirements that the National Assembly requires of us. All the acts previously cited by Mr Pukšič are, of course, public acts published in the Official Journal, and I therefore think they have been taken quite precisely. In this regard, I would say, however, that Mr Pukšič from the list, which is about four pages long, spelled out only a few names, I think there were five or six. He did not mention the others, of course, because with the vast majority of directors of public institutions and public enterprises we can find that they pay their salaries according to the rules and also according to the conclusions and criteria that the government has drawn. So we can generally see that this area is not so poorly regulated, that things are manageable, and that the directors of public institutions and public enterprises and, of course, the supervisory councils or the councils of the institutions that decide to do so follow the conclusions and recommendations made by the government. I must, of course, mention these particular cases, which have been particularly exposed. And at this point, maybe last time I was too self-critical. Mr Pukšič, perhaps intentionally or by mistake, did not quote those acts which apply to those directors. These are economic societies. Companies are not public companies, they are not public institutions, they are companies in which the state is the majority owner, but other rules apply to the formation of the salaries of the directors of these companies. Takritry has also been formulated by the government and these criteria have been and are published, but the formula is different. This is because it comes from the basic salary or as the basis the salary is taken, which is considered to be the average of the activities in which these companies essentially operate. This salary, this basic salary increases with multiples, sometimes it is three - sometimes four - or five - or four - and five - and a six-folder, with regard to the criteria on the size of the company applicable to all companies under the company law. In addition, directors who are paid in this way - and I must also say that here, in essence, the criteria that are applicable on the basis of the recommendation of Manager in general on the market - are used here to take into account the additional allowance at working hours, after the collective contract for other employees, to pay work performance as an annual success award of up to 15% of the Director's annual remuneration, account is taken of certain criteria, the right to retirement, the use of a service car for personal purposes, if the Director of the company is, of course, to agree on reimbursement of the corresponding costs, it is also to pay in accordance with the rules, preventive health check, education up to 15 days. However, other rights may also be established in this Treaty, but the Government recommends in its criteria that the representative of the Republic of Slovenia oppose decisions which would give the Director the right to participate in the profit, the different insurance and other additional rights, unless they are enshrined in the company's statute. So, I have to say from the title that there could not be any great wealth, and therefore it seems to me that the good part of the debate was not connected to the agenda item, not even with the answer to the parliamentary questions, but also, I would say, this area does not have much to do with the alleged poor social picture or the poor economic situation in this country, which is supposed to be on the verge of a disaster as it has been heard. I think that all data and also comparatively, analyses and also experience, I would also say, assessments of serious external institutions indicate that Slovenia and the Slovenian economy are one of the better in this transition or adaptation to the European Union when we enter it and that in many ways Slovenia is also a much better higher-than-higher variety of European countries, including on the social picture and the poverty threshold, for example. Of course, when I was too critical, I must also mention that the analysis I announced was made. Fully completed, in particular, it is not completed in that part that talks about the measures to be followed - because, as I said, we are in the stage of preparing the implementation of the rules, we are also preparing two new regulations, somewhere by the end of the year, the government will bring into Parliament a change in the law on institutions, in fact a new law, and a new law on public enterprises, which will largely change the current status of organisations in this area, in particular, open up the privatisation or release these entities, legal entities, the market and competition, which, of course, will also largely eliminate monopolistic insurance and, I would also say, from this point of view, is highlighted by the directors of these companies and institutions, much more responsibility and much more competition on the market. And from this point of view, I must admit that I do not actually see great arguments against the fact that the directors of certain companies, as well as of institutions, have a higher salary to the President of the country or to Members. But of course this is a matter of discussion, it is a matter of further completion of the system, for which we will all have a great deal of time together. This analysis I mentioned goes this way. I am also referring to the analysis because ministers from the areas where these irregularities were to take place, which were mentioned or those few cases that were exposed, claimed that, of course, the salaries of these directors were charged to me in accordance with these criteria, squandering for managers and for companies on the market at all. I can agree with you that there may be some high salary, even I don't know why someone would have twice or three times my salary, but the criteria have been so far. We can talk about the fact that at some points they are incorrect, wrong, viable, and that they need to be corrected from this point of view and probably - I don't think I will miss anything if I say that the government will complement them further. Even with respect to confidentiality. The government is certainly in favour of making wage data public. After all, the fact that they are published proves that they are public, although we do not currently have the legal basis for public disclosure of the salaries of directors of public institutions and directors of public enterprises. But they're all public salaries for officials. However, I have to say, and you probably know this will no longer be a legal void since 1.1.2004, as the law on the public sector wage system, which provides that all data on all salaries in the public sector is publicly available. And in the end, I would just say that, of course, given that we are in the implementation phase, even in the preparation phase of some new regulations, that the government is obviously concerned about certain anomalies arising from this segment, because [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A few cases can really take the whole picture apart. [[...]] I would therefore say that I am grateful to you in some way for the suggestion from this debate, which we will, of course, use in the further part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have some time left, so I ask, on the basis of Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. Mr Bernick, Mr Petty Officer, Mr Sok, if I go in this order, if you don't mind. The weaver, the puksich, the kebrich. That would be it, wouldn't it? We've got about half an hour left. That would allow me to suggest that within five minutes. And we're just going in order. Mr. Bernick first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bandell, colleagues and colleagues! I think that this discussion is very necessary and is, of course, very much recognized. We've heard a lot of things that we knew about, but some of them have never been said here. However, I am particularly pleased to hear certain criticisms also from the second largest coalition party, but I cannot conclude whether it was "double talk", a double talk or double standards or a purely ordinary deception of people, because they may be listening to what we are saying here. However, I will say this: Those who speak this way have already erected a shameful monument by voting for the shameful and dishonest law of war graves. This is where I end it. Now I'm going back to the subject. I'm gonna be a little bit brutal, so I'm gonna go to the lowest common denominator. You know, in our country, we have one big, big Auggie barn, and we have one, and that should be cleaned up. In this barn is almost the whole structure of the official authority, and in particular some government officials. Today's debate has also shown something else, showing only that we still have some other invisible power. If we think that this government couldn't handle any of the things that we've been talking about today, put no one in court, take no one else's or anyone's, it doesn't hope to step on someone who wants a terrible reward because they've succeeded in some company, even though they're all the right reasons here to do it, and they don't do it. Why? Is the government afraid of people who are behind the economy, who make up saints in companies that manipulate the stock market, who make all kinds of connections purely between themselves? The government, most ministers, doesn't see it at all, I can't imagine it, I would say that the government is here in a situation where they're afraid of this mafia of economics or whatever it is, but otherwise I can't name it because it's going in the same way as the famous mafia. Look. No matter how much we talk, we are far from in the market economy. In the market economy, there are only those who can manipulate and others we're not. You just look at how many companies are still in state hands, and we've talked about denationalising or privatising. In addition to what we talked about in sales today, there will be countless things left the way it is. The government will have its share. Let me get this straight. Our situation is quite similar to the early grave capitalism in the United States. At that time, those who were most successful were called "riber berens", the rabbi barons. I don't think it's any different with us, and history will write about them in that sense. Let's just wake up for once and at least try to make a difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your word. I am pleased that the ruling coalition or parties of the ruling coalition have come to so many critical comments, so many conclusions. Is that honesty, or is that some other maneuver? In particular, he surprised me positively with his exposé, Mr Kontic, which described all the inconsequences, all the anarchy, the irregularities that are at the top of the country, which, of course, is also controlled by his client, not only the last term, six months, not only three years, but also all the time before. I would therefore suggest something to my colleagues from the ruling coalition. To meet again on the Hill, Mr Kontič will re-expose and you will be aware that by the end of your term, you will clear up all these irregularities and irregularities. And if you really do this, I'll tell you that I'm going to vote for you in these elections. This will show real will that you want to handle it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u179	Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! Today, by the ruling coalition, we have been able to hear a phrase that we can repeatedly follow in our public. In fact, it was said that the lowest wage should provide a person with a life worth living, saying, that dignity. But we all know that the lowest wage in the economy in this country is just over 60,000 tolars a month. And I wonder, more than these high wages, I'm particularly worried about this lowest level. Is it possible to live with 60 grand a month? I don't think so. And if the government wanted to - what the President says today is that he has written a new economic programme - this element should be incorporated significantly more firmly into this economic programme. If you want to increase the minimum wage, you need to relieve the economy in the first place. However, if the economy is to be unloaded, public spending must be reduced in particular. Here we are now on the question that we are discussing today: what is the point in this democratic country, on the other hand, of the wages that we have heard today that there are more than two million in public companies and some public services. Of course, this relationship doesn't make any sense. And, Your Honor, the government and the ruling coalition, which today is a bit of an ashtray here, has a canvas and scissors in its hands to settle this matter. But somehow I don't depend on it, I'm not sure that this government can do it, it's over-involved. Just look at the composition of the Supervisory Boards! The opposition suggested that it should be possible for these supervisory committees, which are responsible for these high wages in the public sector, to be able to propose people, but this proposal is not adopted. When we remind the Prime Minister of this difficult economic situation, when we remind him of the growing social dispersion, he responds with the opposite sentence. He says, "We're the best among the worst. We have the highest economic growth and we have the highest social rights guaranteed." It would be much better for me, as a citizen and also for a member of this national assembly, if the Prime Minister and the government could commend us and say we are bad, among the best. This would, of course, mean that a Slovenian worker could also go on vacation for a month's pay to ensure this. And at this point in time, this category of people, and not many people who get 60,000 net wages per month, that's not possible. How can these people survive? We who come from rural areas know very well how they can survive. First they work one "shiht" in the factory, and if necessary, and at the holidays in three shifts, then when they come home, they process that little land they have so that they can sort of beat each other up from month to month. And if anything, then this matter will have to be carefully reconsidered before Slovenia enters the European Union. A lot will change, and much more this country will have to do right on the side of mutual solidarity. Some salaries will have to be reduced and some others raised. Here the Secretary-General of the Government has said that the government is thinking about doing something about this. I hope this is true and that you will work in this direction, because the opposition really has no other option than to be warned about these deviations in our system. However, I hope that the Slovenians will see this issue once and only in some elections if, at another time, they actually change this trend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u181	Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. I must say, I am not entirely satisfied with the Secretary-General's response. Although he said that the Government is preparing a thorough analysis and will also take action in line with this analysis. Firstly, at the level of wages themselves in the public sector or in these comparisons, I think we just have to admit something that we have about, very roughly, the same stomach. Someone who actually has a substantial higher salary than the President of the Republic of Slovenia is paying, probably all those criteria that come next to it already so enormously exceed one normal level that it is probably difficult to accept Slovenia, where almost all of us know each other. Then it's hard to get in front of people and tell them we're in this situation and we're going to have to save money, because too many times then they're going down to the bottom of the student pollen, so start acting so cost-effectively, and then we'll be ready to talk. That's one. Secondly, I believe that the question of how to proceed in this case, which has been observed several times this year, was mainly missing in my answer. The government said it had come up with a proposal not to vote or draw up a counter proposal to share awards and profits with administrations and supervisors. However, as I mentioned in the introduction, the representative of the government voted differently with the New Ljubljana Bank. I believe that in these cases the foundations of a healthy economy are emerging. This is where they start, even though such profit is shown. It is also possible to demonstrate profit on purpose to such an extent that these greasy prizes can in fact be shared. And then, since we almost all know each other, "yes, if he can do it, we will also try to bring such a proposal through or in the congregation in this supervisory world." Therefore, I expect that the government will come up with a proposal that will no longer allow such large prizes to be shared on the one hand in the coming year, when it will discuss the division of awards and profits in the majority-owned companies of the country - even if they are taxed, then they are individuals who receive too much stimulation for our situation, rewards that are too eye-to-eye. Secondly, it is likely that legislation will also have to examine whether it is really the most suitable one. At least progress has been made this year, for the first time, to see what the proposals for the Assembly awards are, that they should be made public, but I believe that this is still too little. This year we have only seen for the first time what extent these proposals are taking place. And here I expect actually faster action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u183	Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u184	The reply given again by the Secretary-General, Mr Bandelj, mentioned that, for one reason or another, I did not say exactly what the formula for determining the salaries of directors is that it is a bit more complicated and so on. I didn't go into that detail because it was clear from the magnetogram. However, I said that it is similar for the salaries of directors in companies whose majority ownership is the country. See, Mr Secretary-General, I ask you whether from these various formulations to determine the salaries of directors where there is also such a thing as to ensure that the above conclusions are violated. Probably not. Is there anything like this that allows these contracts to be kept secret? Probably not. If not one and not the other, as I asked you earlier a question that you did not answer, namely, what you did with those violators. You said, "There's a lot of good, nice and good." I only counted a few of them, I said I'd count the ones that go if a million and a half, the ones that go beyond the criteria of 80 and 100 percent above the allowed ones, that's between 50 and 90. And I went over 90 percent of the minister's salary. I asked you what you did to those who violated it. Will you suggest to them any charges against the prosecutions and so forth? Whether everything will happen in a way that happened a few years ago or a decade ago, in fact, that the National Assembly has changed the law, that what was a crime before has changed the offence and reduced the criminal cases from ten years later to six years, that of course matters are obsolete. This means involving politics in justice or justice in politics, whatever you want. One was too obvious and clearly linked to the other. In view of the fact that you now have until the next questions sent, by September, for some time, you yourself said that by the end of June those conclusions should already be ready, perhaps I agree with you so much that you said that the question was not addressed to the right address. You know, when the National Assembly adopted, that is, the Kviaz Commission, such a decision, addressed it to the government. You answered on behalf of the government. You could have asked the other ministers to prepare these answers. That's not what you're doing. That's why my question was about you. It won't happen next time. My question will be raised in September, unless by then there is an answer, in line with the decision taken by Kviaz, because there is no answer to that question to date, so I will insist on this answer. Takakah will refer to the ministers you mentioned earlier for the work, the family and the Minister of Home Affairs to receive these answers. At the same time, I will, of course, repeat the question of whether you have denounced anyone who has violated these matters. If I should, but in fact I can, but it is not to be counted as falling to fertile ground, I would recommend that the ruling coalition set up one such body that could do something about it. It's called, say, property police, or something like that. And a law, if proposed to the National Assembly, to determine the origin of property, would be very, very welcome. Of course, in this way, we would have come up with a lot of lumps, which we should have written a complaint to him as well. But we should have prosecutors like that so I wouldn't write if it were a lawsuit for an official, and the D.A. writes, "I'm not going to write this complaint because I'm going to come to a slippery slope." Please! This means that there is something else to be done in this area as well. Of course, if there are no answers, I will continue in the autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u185	Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I believe, and not only that I believe, I am sure that much has been said, those who have really discussed the topic on the agenda, that is only about wages. It is true that the subject of public sector wages and ratings are specific to certain such and other employees. On the other hand, we have also touched, and I think it is right that we have at least made clear certain problems from those companies that are majority-owned. Why? Because there the government has a certain influence and the possibility of regulating things in the field of wages as they would be right. I think that these five and a half months that we have before the entry into force or entry into force of the Public Sector Salaries Act will make a lot of use of this to say, 'crowd' to improve its position so that it does not get too affected by what is going to be there. In particular, the public sector's salaries are as follows. In the National Assembly, we have a proposal to amend this law. He who had already studied it had a certain opinion. What follows from the negotiations, why does he not want to raise his wages to the public sector now, as the law in force commands on August 1st. We understand the situation that wages are a driver of inflation, but they are not the only ones, but in the global recession, domestic wages are the only generator of consumption and they save today's level of production through consumption. If we ignore this, there will be more unemployment and other consequences. What happens is that, as many as 140 thousand, I am always talking about a round number, instead of an increase in wages being reclassified as "additional voluntary", of course under the heading, but actually forced saving for an additional pension pension, which means the latest figure this year is that now 220 000 is included in this insurance. Why am I saying this? Because I have a direct connection with the question of public sector salaries. If 140 000 additional voluntary, compulsory insurance is provided, a new capital segment will be created, which has been sufficiently discussed so that domestic capital can again have a greater impact on domestic production, etc. On the other hand, it is also one part of our salary, and we are confused by the transparency of what we actually pay for. I say this in the interest of all those who are aware of what this means, if these certain growths do not mean that those segments that are most affected through this will be further affected, and that this is only an imaginary balance sheet, that all of these will be paid the same premium for this additional insurance, and, on the other hand, they will be reduced through this pension base and it is necessary to realize that the last three years since we adopted the reform of pension legislation, each year the coefficients of the valorisation of salaries that they have increased to 15 years, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] always negative for the last three years. [[...]] I therefore welcome this debate, which will draw certain conclusions, to reflect on our follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate as well as the item on the agenda. The vote is at 19.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u188	Your Honor! Have a good evening. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. First of all, we continue with the 12th paragraph of the agenda, which deals with the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the text of point 110 of Article 12 of the Public Procurement Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, namely: a proposal for acceptance of an authentic, pardon, a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the text of Article 12 of the Public Procurement Act, paragraph 110. We are voting on this. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u189	Your Honor, if I may have your attention for a moment. In the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the proposal for a decision because we estimate that the authentic interpretation is written and proposed in terms of the law itself in 1999. In that previous term, the legislator also realized or wished that the law would go in this direction, as is the case today. The second reason why we propose or oppose the bill not to be adopted is because we estimate that people with disabilities and businesses are the segment in our society that the country, the policy and the government would have to jump to help and thus make their lives easier and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this proposal for a decision mainly on the grounds that all the things with which this compulsory interpretation went are contained in the new proposal of the Public Procurement Act, which is in the procedure. Therefore, the applicants also agree with this mandatory interpretation and there is no reason for them to accept the compulsory interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the assembly and therefore the hearing procedure was not the voting apparatus during the vote. [[...]] I'm sorry, Mr. Pache, you were waving in the middle that it wasn't a problem. I'm asking the technical services to check Mr. Pechet's voicemail. We're voting again. There are 65 of us present, 46 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the procedure for dealing with this authentic interpretation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the sales programme for the financial and real estate for 2003 and 2004. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments table, first of all on Mr Anderlic's amendment to the table. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I spend some time looking around the hall, or someone raises their hand to explain my voice. It usually happens that I say "vote," and then you raise your hand. I'd like to ask you to pay attention, too. I suspended the vote to explain my vote. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I apologize, Madam President, but I held my hand up all the time because I wanted to explain my vote before the vote on this amendment. I'm simply not going to support this amendment. In the debate, I wanted to get an opinion from the government or at least a parent's working body on the amendment tabled by Mr Anderlich, but there was no such opinion. However, it is a matter of selling some state property - the explanation is very expensive - to a total of 50 acres of construction plots, 150 square meters and 87 square meters of basement space at an exclusive price of 42 million tolars. I must say that I personally do not know what the object is, but I think that this explanation is a leap in order for a simple state assembly to vote so quickly on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u195	I will vote in favour of the amendment. This amendment was made in the same way as practically the rest of the text of the decree when the last moment of replacement of the text occurred. You know that the Committee met at the last minute and that the College of the President of the National Assembly was at the time for the establishment of the deadline programme and was set one day for amendments or five days before the opening of the amendment meeting. At that time, in addition to the explanation created by the Ministry of Defence, the list of assets suggested this to be resolved, or as it is called, by military order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to explain their voice anymore. We move on to the vote on the amendment to the table. We're voting. There are 74 of us present, 53 Members and Members voted against 20. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the same proposer to Article 2. Voice explanation, Mr. Petty Officer. [[No, no, ……]] Nobody wants to explain their voice anymore. We are therefore moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 of us present. Fifty Members and Members voted in favour, up to 18. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Procedural proposal. [[...]] Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u197	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the New Slovenia Group requires 10 minutes of recess before the vote for consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. At 20 hours and 14 minutes, we will move on to a full decision on the motion for a decree. It's 8:14. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u199	The time demanded by the New Slovenia Group before the decision on the motion for a decree has expired. Dr. Bayuk would like a word, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. The New Slovenia Group predicts, on the basis of the rights granted to us by the Rules of Procedure, an obstruction to this point. We cannot participate or participate in such a vote until the Slovenian government ensures minimum transparency in this area, and this is a consistent respect for what is enshrined in our Constitution. Until we have the balance sheet of all assets available in this National Assembly, we will not participate in any vote. We regret that such decisions are taken without this National Assembly having at its disposal the minimum information it requires, and it is also governed by our Constitution. Therefore, with regard to this point, we are predicting obstruction and will leave the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Given that, despite the opposition's long-standing warnings, this government is still selling state property, as if it were its property, this is said to be without transparency in the grey market under strange procedures, with strange value-addeds, and as a point of view, that amendments are accepted just before the vote, of course we cannot participate in such a sale of the country. That's why we're predicting obstruction to this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u204	Even in the Slovenian National Party, we do not agree with the way in which state property is sold, but in particular with the content and submission of proposals by the Government. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is vital to the banking side, to sell through the National Assembly and, of course, to sell less valuable things through the National Assembly. In the Slovenian National Party, until the law on the sale of state property is passed, we will not participate in such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The three parliamentary groups announced obstruction in the vote on the motion for a decree. The rest of us are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 14th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the agreement to the work programme of the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia d.d. for 2003. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to the programme of work of the Association for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, d.d., for 2003 of 15.5.2003 and of 6.6.2003." Explanations of votes, first Mr Barovic, then Mr Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. In a broad and I think that a fruitful debate we have said some criticisms at the expense of the programme itself. At the same time, at the same time, I said that for the sake of adopting the programme, for the very main reason that the development of the road cross would not stand in the way of economic operators being helped and the story of railways would not happen when we lose our traffic and good economy through corridors that would form on the road network. In the Slovenian National Party we will be in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry that I didn't have enough time before I had the debate to say it all to the end, so I'm gonna take this now. I was talking about the national programme being strangely composed and the data being unreliable. According to my calculations and the data that I got through the computer - I guess I didn't invent anything - I find that by 1994, there was a highway of 139.8 kilometers, not 198, because there were also bi-passes, which by no means could be a highway. And in nine years - that was also my last question - it became a 160.7 kilometers highway. If someone says highways in Slovenia are doing well, sorry, that's not true! It's 17 kilometers a year! If this is good, with the money it gives in Slovenia, I don't think it's good. If we give 60 billion tolars each year to build a highway cross and we have 17 kilometers built each year, it means that a mile of highway comes about 3 billion and a half, dear ladies and gentlemen! Please! Don't tell me it's $2 billion, it's 600 billion, and I don't know how much! These are data from which you can easily calculate a nino-no problem. There's parameters on the computer, there's little math skills, and you calculate it, there's no problem. Each year, the ratio between credit and own funds is increasing. And where are we gonna get to? If we're going to move forward with this dynamic, we've still got a tough twelve years to build highways, given that this year is over. Therefore, if I want to have a clear conscience, there is no way I can vote in favour of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 of us here. There were 53 votes against 8. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this point of the day's surrender. And we're going to continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda. [[...]] [[A consultation.]] we decide on the agreement to amend and supplement the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to amend and supplement the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 11.6.2003. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. This Regulation regulates the method and criteria for the allocation of funds of the Foundation, which amount to 400 billion this year and which are intended for national interest in the field of sport. What is the national interest? I believe that this is primarily the work with young people, recreational work, such work in sports that captures as many young and, of course, adults as possible and creates the conditions for achieving a healthy spirit in a healthy body. According to this regulation, which we will now adopt or supplement, this year will be 400 for the purpose of interesting sports education of children and youth, sports activities of students and sports recreation, i.e. what is the essence of this programme, only 4.8% of all resources will be devoted to this activity. Only for research in sport, research tasks and authors' fees. And for everything else, for other purposes. I believe that such an attitude towards the national importance of recreational sports activities of young and adult people is unrealistic. Since the proposal does not correct these anomalies and because we have no choice to supplement the amendments to this Regulation, I will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Quite a few of you have come to the floor, following the following order: Mr Bevk, Mr Kermjar, Mr Drobnic. First of all, Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I will, of course, vote in favour of the Rules of Procedure. The issue of percentages devoted to individual parts of the Sports Foundation programme is, without any consideration of the total amount of resources allocated to sport in the country, very risky to do, if not even cheap demagogies. We have heard evidence from the opposition species that, for the heart of national interest, it is for the sports education of children and young people under the sport activity programme only 4.8 out of the $1 billion 400 million of the sport fund. According to the National Sports Programme, the 1999 data required 4 billion tolls to implement state-level programmes and 11 billion tolars to implement the local community programme. Together, therefore, 15 billion tolars of state and local budgets, without other resources, such as sponsorships and donors. According to the National Sports Programme, the priority is also to finance programmes in the first group, where individual sport is included, the first priority is sports education for children, youth and students. For these reasons, I will vote in favour of the Rules of Procedure, because these funds are significantly greater in the entire sphere of sport in the country than has been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote for this, not because of this, of course, it is intended for this, because it is so decent, but because the real reason is also what Bevk said. I won't say it again. However, the financing of sport in Slovenia is set up so that the majority, large, almost 90 percent and more of the money of public finance is referred to as top sports. I really don't know how many times this has to happen, so I'm gonna do it again. And in fact, I'm sorry, it's demagogy, pulling just one piece. The foundation we are talking about is just one piece of financing sport, which has strictly dedicated resources. These are 40 to 50 per cent of the investment in what the country represents, the preparation of state representatives for major competitions and so on. The second part, 40 to 50 percent, for investments that generate investments in our living environments and for sports facilities all over Slovenia. Since the foundation, more than ever. Already today it has been said several times because it multiplies because it stimulates and stimulates investment and is a praiseworthy act. Recreation, education of children and youth, financing of all this is in public finances, is within the Ministry and is in the municipalities. 8 billion are given by municipalities for this activity and for investing in facilities. The country gives a lot of money and then the foundation. Please let us understand this, so that within the foundation we can only talk about this money, which is divided into these two categories, and also into the category of research, research activities, where it is again a complex sport and not just a top sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u216	I respect and appreciate that in Slovenia there is a foundation for the development of sport, but of course everything that is going on I do not appreciate it very much. The first is the question of how many of these resources are the widest in the world, the development of a healthy body and a healthy spirit. The other thing I would like to point out right now is the functioning of the foundation as to how the allocation of funds is decided. As long as we have foundations to decide on the distribution of funds to those receiving them, this is a systemic error. Once again, that's a systemic error. On this occasion, I would like to draw the attention of the Slovenian public and this foundation, those members, to make a slight change in the way the calls are made, as this is also the basis for the calls for proposals. Given that the decision of the foundation, regarding the distribution of sovereigns, is only confirmed by us, I will not object to this decision. Let this be just a warning to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u218	It is true that in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that there has never been and will never be a complete system for financing sports organisations. The fact is that individual beneficiaries of financial resources or those who want to be beneficiaries will never be satisfied. On the other hand, we estimate that changes and additions to the Regulation will help to increase the efficiency of financing of Slovenian sport. In particular, taking into account the new changes, according to our assessment, the most important of Articles 4 and 10, which, on the one hand, guide the size of investments that we believe are still important for Slovenia in terms of coherent regional development in this area. And in Article 10, which speaks of an investment system. From these two addresses in the Slovenian National Party we will support the Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I will also support and vote in favour of this Regulation, especially because, in five years of existence, this foundation has shown that it can actually have all the serious resources available to the public and is one of the rare foundations that has been listed in its report for each year, from showing exactly who was registered on the call, how many have been rejected, how much money has been spent, why and for what purposes. This information is available to all on the website and the Internet and is regularly updated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kavtičnik, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support the proposal for amendments to the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports activities precisely because it transparently shows those resources that are shared for the development of sport and for the development of the conditions of sport in our environment. What colleagues have said with the construction of sport infrastructure is being made possible by the widest variety of our citizens and citizens so that they can engage in sport. Here is what needs to be emphasized in particular. Of course, it's a composition, and that's why I'm going to support it, because the composition of this foundation is professional. This is where the sports professional public participates. I wonder what they'd say if there were singers or culturers who don't know each other in sports. This is precisely why it is right to support those quality programmes that are composed of experts from a particular field. And that's guaranteed at the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-14-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to give our consent to the amendments. We're voting. There are 72 of us here. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and at the same time interrupt the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night!
