ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Bogdan Barovič, only Bevk from 16.00 p.m. onwards, Janez Cimperman, Silva Črnugelj, Marko Diaci, Zoran Gračner, Roman Jakič, Aurelio Juri, Franz Kangler, Ivan Kebrič, Milan Kopushar from 18.30 p.m. onwards, Janez Kramberger, Alexander Merlo, Valentin Pohorec, Cyril Pucko, Franz Pukšič, Jožef Špindler, Jože Tanko and Janko Weber. We're moving on to 13. Period of the day - Third defensively proposed law on the provision of air navigation services. I welcome the representatives of the government and the Minister between us very much. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister of Transport, Jakob President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! On the basis of the decision of the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, the Government drew up the text of a proposal for a law providing air navigation services for third treatment in the National Assembly, which included all the amendments adopted in the second reading, and carried out some nominal technical corrections and renumbering of the articles of the draft law. It also set out the text of the amendments to Articles 3, 13 and 29 of the draft law on third reading with a view to eliminating certain non-compliances arising after the adoption of the amendments in the second reading of the draft law. The government has also drawn up two harmonisation amendments. In line with previous statements, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the text of the proposal for an Air Navigation Services Act, together with the proposals of the Government's amendments and later the Government's harmonisation amendments, so as to allow for the early reorganisation of the air navigation services system in the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I would stress or suggest that we give the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly the opportunity to make a minor adjustment in Article 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. First of all, Mr Alojz Sok will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government with the Minister-in-Chief, the honourable fellow Member and Members! We are discussing a very important law because the organisation of navigation services is extremely important for operating or air safety. While aviation accidents are rare, the consequences of such accidents are largely large, if not catastrophic. In order to operate navigation services, it is certainly necessary to ensure that these services operate safely, regularly, smoothly, and also that they are flexible, both in the organisation and in financial and human resources matters. This is certainly the public interest of the State in this area. This law provides for the establishment of a public company that will be 100% owned by the State. This public undertaking is then transferred to all the workers currently employed in this area. It's about 137 workers at the moment. This public undertaking is also transferred to all assets and, at the very beginning of the operation of this company, funds from the budget amounting to 240 million Slovenian tolars are invested. The three services now operating under the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Slovenia are air information services, then air transport services and air telecommunications services, and will therefore, following the new adoption of the law, operate within the framework of this public undertaking, while two other services, namely the air meteorology service and the search and rescue service, remain organised within the Ministry of Environment and Space. In New Slovenia, we have already said, and we still think that it would be more appropriate to organise this service in its entirety, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, there is real security, flexibility, organisational and financial and human resources issues within a single company. Although the government feels otherwise, the majority in this Parliament and after all in New Slovenia will not object to such a solution. However, we are confident that such an organisation will ensure what is expected of it. This is in particular security and, of course, that this public undertaking will perform a service for all airports, a navigation service for all airports, not just for two airports, which has been mentioned several times in the discussion itself in the second reading. We anticipate and hope that the contract, which will have to be concluded under the adopted law between the government and this public undertaking, will be made in such a way as to take this into account. And another thing, let me say, we expect what is being paid to remain at this level, as promised by the government, is that the fee will remain at the level of this 70 euro, which was also discussed in this national assembly. Thank you very much. We will support the law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that the matter covered by the law is very important. That is why it is necessary that the law is also good, that the organisational form or the parent undertaking is better and that the parent company can be sufficient or carry out the activities that this law requires. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that the law will not be able to live or that the company Air Traffic Control Slovenia d.o.o. she will not be able to perform the functions she imposes on her. The fact is that a legal case cannot be maintained. That is why I will finally ask for the Minister's comment, because, of course, the desire of the Slovenian National Party is also of the highest quality in our country. See, the applicant speaks in Article 4 or Article 3 about a public undertaking or services and then states which they are and that these services are subject to the Law on Economic Public Services. The fact is that, under the Law on Economic Public Services, public companies as one of the forms of economic public services are set up for energy, transport, communications, utilities, water and all logistics under the influence of the State. To this end, the applicant followed the guidelines in force in Slovenian legislation. The fact is that economic services or societies are governed by the principle that their primary purpose is not to create profits, but to provide certain activities that enable the State to make it easier to stay, safety and the like. In short, not and only profit. On the other hand, the proposaler loses the green thread, which is the constant practice of the Slovenian Government in setting up public enterprises. And this practice, unfortunately, always turns out to be negative in any case. In addition to the provisions of the Law on Public Companies, the Act on Economic Companies is added in Article 4 on the establishment of a company and the establishment of a public company. Our executive branch of power and this Parliament has long since decided to separate between the concept of an economic society and a public economic society. Because companies are set up to make profits. Economic public services are created to ensure public interest. That's an essential difference. However, the Slovenian government, the proposer, is also trying to establish both laws or businesses under both laws. Therefore, the public company Air Traffic Control of the Republic of Slovenia is d.o.o. D.o.o. is an economic company, a capital company whose primary purpose is to provide profits. Of course, this is not the only flaw in this marriage. Because the fact is that the status change or definition of a certain law gives rise to the rights and obligations of that company. We are talking about funding, employment and legal status of an existing company. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that if we already agree to reorganise this activity, then let us give such consent to a reorganisation that will be able to survive in legal terms. Probably all of you who are also involved in local policy are familiar with cases where local communities, on the one hand, establish businesses on the basis of the Law on Economic Public Services, on the other hand, the same company on the basis of the Law on Economic Companies. And there are such irregularities. According to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the law is needed because of this negligence - I sincerely hope of course that it was negligence - to reject. The proposer must decide whether or not to have an undertaking responsible for the performance of the tasks covered by this Act and these tasks are important and there is no debate on this at all. Because the fact is, we have to settle this area. But it would make sense to regulate this area in such a way that it will also legally abstain and enable the performance of tasks otherwise prescribed by this law. Mr Minister, I will sincerely ask you for an explanation in connection with the dilemma: the Law on Economic Public Services and the Law on Economic Companies. I think that you are aware of this, if you are not, you can also obtain from me both laws that separate status forms or specify status forms which, of course, have implications in legal traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! So today we are ahead of the last act of enacting a law on the provision of air navigation services. This law regulates, as we have already heard, a very important area of provision of navigation services, the type, form and method and the working and organisational design of the management of air navigation services with all the professional, technical and material bases for their operation. Already in the first and second reading, we have essentially decided on a concept, which we will no doubt also confirm today, so that the Republic of Slovenia provides air navigation services in accordance with the Aviation Act under the conditions of public service operation in the specific organisational form of a public economic undertaking, and thus we have actually brought the matter up to date, which we also need to confirm today. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we find, of course, in the parliamentary group, that the law is aligned both with domestic law and with all the international treaties and agreements to which Slovenia has acceded and to which, of course, we also have our obligations. In particular, it is the so-called Chicago Convention, the revised Eurocontrol Convention and the agreement on air services and the operation of facilities and installations provided by Eurocontrol at the Central European Air Traffic Services Control Centre. For these reasons, of course, we hope that the law will be brought to life as quickly as possible in order to fully fulfil the tasks and requirements of the newly established company and, above all, to ensure air safety, so our parliamentary group will adopt the law, confirm it, as well as all three amendments that do not substantively affect the legal matter adopted in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Members did not report to the debate and the debate was announced by a government representative. I give the floor to the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Transport, Mag. Bojan Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear Members! I would just like to respond to the comments of the national party, Mr Pečet, and add some basic explanations. In our Law on the provision of air navigation services, we have approached a solution, as proposed, just to ensure greater air safety, which we can provide only under conditions, as mentioned by the New Slovenia Member, Mr Sok, if this law allows us greater flexibility, both in organisational terms and in all other ways. We believe that such a solution enables us to do so. As far as the profitability of the activity itself is concerned, I must tell you that if we were looking only for profit, we would probably propose a different arrangement. It's not like that. Our main aim is to provide dedicated resources that can be invested back in infrastructure, infrastructure improvement, communication, improving staffing and other conditions, training of controllers and other staff of navigation services. This is achieved by the fact that the money that will flow can thus be directed back precisely to these activities that I have now counted. However, if we remained only in providing navigation, we would not be able to invest back in infrastructure and thus increase air safety over the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. Procedural proposal, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u12	I would ask, given that there are no more applicants, the time for this point is left for us to ask who else wants to discuss, this is normal and consistent practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u13	Mr. Pache, let me explain. We are in the third reading of the bill, we should fully discuss the proposal of the law, all Members and Members, he has not signed up for the word, he should have applied first, he should have been announced, no one. We are now moving on to the consideration of individual amendments, Mr Peče, and the parliamentary groups have time to discuss which you have also submitted for the debate on individual amendments tabled under the third reading of the bill. What you think time is left is happening in the context of the first hearing, this is in the general debate on the law. At that time, the remaining time is allocated, but the procedure is still running, and you can take the floor under an article. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 1. Ten. 2003. First, I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! Article 3 also refers to the dilemma I have raised in the presentation of the Group of Members, but I do not think that the proposaler understood me. I believe that, and I also wish that this law would ensure security and the necessary funding. I warn you once again, the status form of the company as proposed does not allow this, because there are different funding systems for companies, their basic, primary objective is financing on the market, this is making a profit, and this part of the company is marked by you in the form of d.o.o. - a company with limited liability belonging to capital companies. The second part of the funding relates to Article 8 of the Law on Economic Public Services, where they are public economic services and public enterprises. And you have in the same word a public company and a capital company that is financed by an assessment of public goods from budgetary resources and so on. In short, there is a fundamental difference between the company law and the law on public companies. And I'm afraid, in my opinion, it's legally unsustainable. It is true, however, that in practice, in past practice, or in the past, this practice of Slovenian business creation was in the smallest line. But this kind of business creation is confusing and this confusion will be reflected in organisational form and financial form. In view of this confusion, this company will not be able to operate in such a way as to ensure all the provisions of this law and to carry out its task in the interests of security. So I advise you, take time to think. Offer another solution in the form of a company, but a different form of business. It simply does not go together to mix a public undertaking and a capital company. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when writing, proposed a law on public companies and, when proposing a law on companies, deliberately placed two laws in the procedure for the separation between them. And once again, to make it easier to understand. The purpose of companies is to create capital, not in the provision of public interest or goods, to facilitate the exercise of public interest, because for these ways it has created a law or offered for admission, and this National Assembly has adopted it, the Law on Economic Public Services. And my appeal to you is nothing more than to decide whether to work under one law or to work under another law. As the fact is that everywhere in Slovenia there was a public company xy and behind a short cut of the capital company, there was a problem. And that's how the problem is going to be in this case. Whether it is to cover the possible loss of the company from where it will be, or to share the profits. Because part of it will want to behave marketly, in Maribor we have a lot of these problems, and the founder shows loss. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Pece, you have probably noticed that you have exceeded the time allocated and notified by your Group of Members, so that, unfortunately, you will not be able to give me another word. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Article 3 refers to the type of form and method of providing air navigation services. I think that this dilemma raised by my colleague Peca is to some extent problematic and it can happen, we have already warned in the second reading. Of course, it depends in many ways on what kind of contract will be concluded between the government and between this public undertaking. For when the law is passed, it follows from this law that these contractual relations will be determined by a special contract, and here it is necessary to remind the Government that in the drafting of this contract it must have a first sighting, a security assurance before it, because this is the first question and all the remaining issues to be addressed to this basic issue, if navigation services are to fulfil the public interest, as citizens are actually expecting. I think the Minister will also respond to this dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I'm asking representatives of the government if they want a word? Mr. Babic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u18	I want to be short. I agree with the two interlocutors, Mr Pecett and Mr Sok, that certain dilemmas exist. However, in our interviews with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we have come to the conclusion that this is the most optimal solution at this time. However, we are deeply aware of the dilemma raised by Mr Sok, and also by the government, we guarantee, on our part, that in this Treaty we will very precisely define the relations between the government and the future company that will provide navigation services in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 3 and the amendment of the government. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments and the bill in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today at 5:10 p.m. I'm breaking this agenda. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. At 10.30 a.m., we will move on to the 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please come to the hall. We'll continue at 15. It's in the middle of a regular session. These are the first draft of a law to prevent conflicts of interest and restrict corruption. This debate will, according to the total time reported, be a long, almost four hours. So I will ask for patience and patience. Before I open this debate, I will be aware of the experience of similar debates, which I immediately warned: we are all obliged to stick to the topic on the agenda. If anyone tried to use it for any other purpose, I won't allow it. Of course, in accordance with the rules of procedure, of course, all freedom of speech, but it is not possible to take advantage of this topic for any other, for any other interests. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of eleven Members, with their first-signed colleague Viszak, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. First of all, he will be given the floor of a government representative, Minister of Justice, Master Bizjak. I understand that he will complement it in the introduction, as he has informed me, Mr Boštjan Penko, Director of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Corruption. They will then receive the word of the Group of Members and then there will be a general debate of Members and Members. Let's go in order, first of all, Mr. Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament!The government is aware that corruption is a serious and dangerous phenomenon and that Slovenia is not immune before this phenomenon. In view of the situation, which appears on the basis of detected cases of various forms of corruption, we are aware that these open cases are not all the phenomena that occur in this area. We estimate that this is not a situation that would require some exceptional non-systemic action. However, it is necessary to simplify and supplement all the regulatory arrangements relating to this area, which therefore seek to prevent the causes of corruption related to the restriction or prevention of conflicts of interest and, of course, to regulate in a uniform and transparent manner all the procedures involved. This is why we are proposing a law to prevent conflicts of interest and to limit corruption. At the same time, you have also received starting points for a resolution on the national anti-corruption programme. The Government intends to submit a proposal for this resolution before the end of its consideration of the Act, thus establishing a legal, regulatory basis for action in this area, while also drawing up concrete measures that are necessary to achieve this objective. So, the basic starting point is for all issues to be settled in a uniform way. For this reason, the law also provides for a circle of persons, officials to whom this law applies. It shall establish an independent institution, a commission to carry out key supervisory functions in this regard. It shall determine the manner in which this Commission operates and, of course, shall contain all the provisions relating to restrictions. Restrictions on gainful activities, restrictions on the acceptance of gifts and restrictions on the business of all persons to whom the law applies. At the same time, the proposed law also uniformly regulates the control of the property status of all persons concerned by the law. It also introduces certain procedures to which State authorities or bodies covered by the law are bound in order to establish effective mechanisms for the emergence of causes, the creation of conditions in which corruption could occur. This is addressed to provisions referring to integrity plans. Therefore, for this explanation of some concrete solutions to this law, further explanation, I would ask you to listen to the Director of the Anti-Corruption Office, Mr Penk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u22	Okay. Mr Minister, so, Director of the Office, Mr Penko will complete your introduction, and then we will move on to a presentation on the positions of the groups of Members. Here you go, Mr. Penko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members! We believe that the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption is the fruit of the democratic process of the formation of this law. For about two years now, the Office has been working on the drafting of this regulation, the regulation has been checked all the time outside government circles in the professional and general public, and we believe that we have achieved the most possible in this context in this context and in this context. Of course, the law does not regulate all areas relating to the fight against corruption, but somehow compliments them, complements them. Indeed, the law deals with tackling the causes of corruption and is intended to do so, and therefore, the title of the law, at least in the part where it speaks of limiting corruption. If we limit corruption to an appropriate level that can be managed, then, of course, there are other laws, there are other institutions that, with their powers different from those of this law, must effectively address problems and, of course, this law does not remove them from such behaviour. It is therefore important that you understand the context and purpose of this law. So the law goes much further in a variety of ways than it has been in the current legal system. If we look only at the supervision of the assets of officials, it includes officials in all branches of government and subordinates them to the supervision of an independent institution, it introduces an effective system of control, sanctions, at the final stage with the end of the mandate. This is, of course, decided by the institution within the competent branch of authority, but it also leads to such an end, if necessary, if the official does not respect the procedures provided for in the law. It also covers local officials, which is of exceptional importance, and also includes directors of public services, members of supervisory bodies of public services, institutions, etc., all that has proved necessary in this preliminary discussion somewhere in this issue. Let me also draw attention to the integrity plans, which are an important part of this law and are essentially a process of self-verifying institutions, both in the public and in the private sector, seeking corruption-sensitive areas and then introducing measures that somehow eliminate and effectively prevent corruption in institutions. So the results of this law will not be visible tomorrow, but they will be visible, let us hope that they will be visible in the medium term, and especially in the long term. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u24	Good. Thus, we have heard an introductory explanation of the bill by the proposer. We will now go to a presentation on the positions of the groups of Members. All parliamentary groups have been reported. We will begin with the views of the DeSUS Group of Members, my colleague Celigoj will present them. After that, she was a fellow Member of New Slovenia or of her parliamentary group. First, Comrade Cheligoy. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. The bill before us covers the issue of combating corruption and the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity. The determined fight against corruption, often intertwined by the fight against illegal wealth in the performance of public functions, is often expressed in many documents, both in domestic legislation and in international instruments. Corruption offences are defined in more detail by criminal law. The consideration of today's bill, however, is the basis for preventive action in an area that, in practice, not just in our own country, causes a lot of pride and general mistrust among citizens, both in public institutions and in other market operators. Corruption is also quite disruptive from an economic point of view, as money flows away on the sidelines, is lacking for the basic purpose, investment or perhaps even the survival of an individual company. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased to note that we are finally obtaining a law that will address corruption in one place or that allows data collection and processing for all public officials in the country, irrespective of the branch of government. However, the law is not intended for itself; it must be implemented to fill the ethical deficit, both in the public and private sectors, in the area of evaluation of corruption between citizens and in the integration of all three branches of government. Only a negative evaluation can form the basis for a critical civil society that can indirectly limit irregularities in operation. The draft law is also only the basis for action by other competent authorities, in particular law enforcement and judicial authorities. The fight against corruption strategy is the next step, a long-term step we need to take. The national anti-corruption programme, which is intended to summarise the international instruments to which Slovenia has acceded, as well as the existing experience and practice on domestic soils, should also help. The fight against fraud, corruption and other irregularities is a priority of European Union legislation and thus of Slovenia, which is a small country and is therefore so much more subject to the idea that people with certain levers of power are subject to corruption. We certainly cannot allow corruption to spread across every reasonable frontier and to become a way of life, it is that the citizens would accept it as something self-sufficient and with it they are counting already. The adoption of this law will also allow for better implementation of the principled wishes and recommendations in practice. That is why we will support the proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. Colleague Majda Zupan will present the views of the Novi Slovenije Group, for which she will be a colleague of the Peča position of the Slovenian National Party Group. First, my colleague Zupanov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, the Honourable Director of the Anti-Corruption Office, the Honourable Assembly! The proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption has only been prepared by the government on a difficult path. In doing so, the fact that he mentions corruption only in the second part of the title as if it were in some way embarrassing for her to exist with us or that she is not ambitious enough and sovereign enough to prevent it and not just restrict it. Although the law has been in existence for two years and there has been a different exchange of views, in our parliamentary group we still believe that this area is so important that a broader debate is needed, more open and not in as narrow circles as it has been. The latest events on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange - more than 500 virtual deals - also show that there are many hidden and hidden events that can reach this area as well. In this regard, we would be interested and would ask the Director of the Anti-Corruption Office whether he could answer how these events affected or how these events could affect the statistics and thus the classification of our country in the international space; perhaps there is much to be said about this. What is corruption? There is no comprehensive and complete definition of corruption in our legal order. There are individual corruption offences in criminal law, as well as in the bond law we find cases that are bound to obsolete periods. Whatever our opinion is on the work of the Anti-Corruption Office, we can say that what has failed to the officials of the Ministry for many years has succeeded the Office in clearly defining what corruption is. Corruption includes unlawful acts and practices that are unethical, immoral, constitute an abuse of the law and constitute an abuse of an individual with a certain position for private purposes. The integration of policies and economies, as well as, for example, education, health care, especially in the stages where regulations are adopted in certain areas, when a future legal order is established, when capital is redistributed from the state to the private sphere, when various para-State institutions and organisations are formed that will have significant consequences for their actors in the future. Following the adoption of a certain law, a sub-law or regulation, a situation may also arise where corrupt cooperation between policy, economy, education, health or other structures creates a monopoly, a privileged position of individuals or groups and a discriminatory position of others. Thus, a high concentration of power in the hands of the ruling economic and political elite. In doing so, we should certainly not forget those practices that are corrupt in nature and in nature, but people as such do not perceive or even accept them, tolerate them, land on them, and even execute them themselves without bad conscience. These are a number of actions in the context of small, small-scale corruption that occurs in contact with various public services and in the private sector and without which the average citizen is almost no longer able to represent everyday life. The law of such conduct does not usually incriminate in the sense of prohibited acts, offences or criminal acts, because their individual dangers against the law and value are insignificant. Many times, even such acts are necessary in everyday contact, in human relations, as they are based on different mutual, friendly, related, and other relationships. However, joint action and its cumulative effect are so large and no less important than systemic corruption. They mean the corruption of human relations, relations between individuals and the country and society. So it is a matter of cases where an individual has to pay for what he would be entitled to for free when a person is found in an unequal position, when he should have the same position under the Constitution and the law, and according to moral and ethical standards. Corruption in itself threatens democracy by promoting distrust of the authorities. This denies the principle of social justice and leads to a fall in the welfare of an average citizen when he redirects financial resources into the pockets of privileged individuals and groups. On the other hand, it promotes mistrust in people, creating an atmosphere of general social mistrust and, last but not least, distorts and blocks development incentives in the economy. The fact is that corruption exists and is increasing in Slovenia. Regarding its scope, the estimates vary. The 1998 opinion of the population shows that 58% of the population surveyed agreed that corruption has increased with us after the change in the political system. The first general survey on corruption in our country since 2002 has shown that citizens' assessment of the prevalence of corruption is greater than the actual experience in this area that citizens have. A survey among economists also showed that 43% of Slovenian managers believe that corruption is a major problem. For a long time, the ruling elite closed their eyes to this phenomenon. Although one of the parliamentary groups tried to legislate in 1994 in this area, the government rejected it by arguing that there was no need for corruption in Slovenia, and since then it has grown very large in Slovenia, by already jeopardising the interests of some in power. The government did not wake up until 2000, after the problem was raised in the GRECA report that there was no authority in Slovenia that would deal only with corruption and coordinate anti-corruption activities. In 2001, the government set up a coordination group to prevent corruption as an interdepartmental body within the Ministry of the Interior. A few months later, her tasks were transferred to the Anti-Corruption Office as a self-sustaining professional service. The purpose of the office was not to prosecute corruption, and they were in charge, clearly, of the prosecution and of the police. However, the public expected much from the office and its operation. Indeed, on the one hand, the Office was preparing analyses of the situation in Slovenia, a strategy against corruption, and in the final stage also a law against corruption. However, the management of the Office has taken on a role in which it has not been possible to resist an assessment of some cases of possible fraud and legality and corruption, with a number of allegations of this Office not having received any epilogue and a number of investigations have not yet been initiated. This, in turn, caused strange and not very good feelings among people. A comparative review shows that anti-corruption laws, including independent anti-corruption institutions, exist in all countries. Many countries have an institution with great powers. They act preventively and repressively and have the power to deal with corruption by bringing an indictment, and they also have the appropriate means of investigation and methods to detect it. The government has therefore prepared for us a new bill combining anti-corruption matter with the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity with the office. The last one's been inconclusive for years. In fact, since we were adopted ten years ago. Although the Commission of the National Assembly has put forward a number of proposals to improve the legal text, the government has not taken this into account. For a number of years, the decision of the National Assembly, which ordered the Government to prepare legal amendments, was unfulfilled. The current law does not establish a single system within the meaning of the debtors, does not define the official sufficiently well and leaves essential solutions to other laws that do not exist at all. Specially attractive is the area of local officials for whom no supervision has been established, and there is not at all a single mechanism and effective sanctions. The fact is that the existing law does not provide a comprehensive system of control over the assets of officials. I would like to stop a little with some of the solutions proposed. In the first place, I would mention a significant novelty, namely the identification of who are the officials and their tax numbers, namely those defined in the Constitution and also extending to officials in state authorities and local communities, the establishment of an independent and independent body, a commission for the integrity of public action, and the Council of the Commission as the supervisory body of the Commission. In our parliamentary group, we have a certain fear before the establishment of such a commission, we are skeptical, we are afraid that this will be another commission in a number of committees that will not be able to do so with the tasks and powers it has, what it has to do. We believe that much more should be done in the area of persecution: the police, prosecutors and courts should play a key role in this area. Greater professional responsibility within the bodies, greater supervision, less free assessment of procedures and clearer definitions of the delimitation of policy and economic areas would be needed. It would then also stop in the regulation on the incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity, while commending the expansion of the range of officials, which has been lacking in the regulation so far. Corruption should be as criminal as all other delinquents, we believe, and the country should encourage repressive authorities to do more effectively, introduce additional expert groups, increase mutual cooperation, and even increase penalties for certain crimes, if necessary. Also in the area of receiving gifts is a proposed solution for which further improvements and improvements are worth looking for. An explicit prohibition is laid down for receiving gifts, with the exception of those donated in accordance with protocol rules and for occasional gifts of minor value. A value of 15,000 tolars or a total value of 30,000 tolars per year from the same person and also applies to family members of officials. The accepted gifts and their value should be entered in the list of gifts to the authority in which the official performs the function. We ask ourselves whether the sum of 15 thousand is truly symbolic of most Slovenians, whether they can afford such a gift from the Alpine or another factory. We also ask ourselves the following question. An official or an official in the municipality may, on a daily basis, cash out a few times after 15,000, as he issues a large number of different permits, various documents. Perhaps it would be a better solution if the gift was tied to the official once a year worth 15,000. In any case, we understand that it is difficult to avoid just everyday situations, such as lunch invitations or other occasions. Therefore, it would be important to discuss the purpose of the gift, not the amount. That's a few of our comments. Moreover, the question of how seriously does the government deal with this law. It is known that 30 % of the applications received at the office relate to public procurement and therefore very important activities are in preventing corruption in this area. The current Public Procurement Act does not specify that any contract on the choice of an operator or supplier must contain a so-called anti-corruption clause. Such clauses are intended for possible subsequent findings that corruption has occurred in the past and provide for the cancellation of the deal in its entirety or the nullity of the contract. Nor does the proposal for a new law in this area provide for the introduction of a mandatory anti-corruption clause, nor does it specify the consequences for any other country linked to the transaction of a supplier or contractor found to be a bribe, since the undertaking will not be included as a so-called blacklist of companies which are not entitled to tender for corruption. The public opinion poll conducted by the Anti-Corruption Office last year certainly shows that corruption is now more important than before 1990, according to citizens. The population in Slovenia has been increasingly divided and divided for some time now, with members of the upper layers prepared and able to pay more and more for various services, either for education, for health, social, economic. On the other hand, we have that group of people who provide services, and mainly because of materialistic thinking, which actually predominates with us, a pattern of payment of reception services. This situation, we are sure, is unsustainable for the country. One and the same people are always waiting in long lines for different services, while the other, privileged, are subject to different rules. It is clear from the point of view of the legal, just, social and democratic state that such a situation is unsustainable, so we believe that the law before us, and it is meant to actually intervene in this area, cannot do so, and that it is too strong, has too little teeth to actually bite to be effective, so that it could be the tangible core of our society, that it is too much of a diversion, and only for apparent readiness. And as a result, in our parliamentary group, we feel that marriage is not good and we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you, Comrade Zupanov. The colleague Peče now has the floor to present the views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. He's got a buddy named Potch behind him. First of all, my friend Peca. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u29	Your Honors are here! I am sorry that President Pahor has already limited the substantive debate on corruption from the outset. I also regret that we have before us a law, which I believe is an assessment by the Slovenian National Party of simply throwing sand in the eyes. The law does not achieve what we sincerely hoped it would achieve in the Slovenian National Party. The first comment, according to our assessment, is the most important comment, the circle of those who will be touched by the law. I personally do not believe that these are the only ones listed in Article 2, Members, Prime Minister and all that. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, everyone - an analyst, an ordinary official, a Member, a President of the State, should be explicitly listed. And to speak or write a law with Article 2, such as is currently under way, according to our assessment, a shameful law. And if we go any further to criminal provisions. The penal provisions of the draft law, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have so praised, are, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, in any corruption act, the minimum penalty, which is, a ban on the life-long exercise of public administration functions. It's over. That would be something that this country could boast of stepping on a finger or trying to step on a finger of corruption. Not the kind of law we have before us today. Moreover, of course, the law itself, probably, all those who have read it, you know that it has 20 articles that speak only of the work of the commission, composition and similar things. So, a law that is essentially the rules of procedure of the commission and nothing else. We are already assessing this as unacceptable and suggesting that one way was that the bill-maker had nothing else to write in law than what the commission was supposed to do with its composition and similar things. This is also completely pointless, according to our assessment. And on the other hand, I'd just like to ask Mr. Penk. Look, eight minutes ago, we passed a law that we set up, and this council of state gave a green light for this law, with which or with two status definitions. One public company, the same company, the other part of this company is an economic company, 100% owned by the country. I think it's 200 million tolars. In ten years' time, either the European Union directive or the appeal of the European Union's individual lobby, a civil initiative in the Republic of Slovenia, will come to take place. There will be four people, five people associated more or less with politics, privatising the company.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u30	My friend Peca, I'm being warned here that if you talk to your colleague Penk, you're being heard worse in the hall. It's also possible to roll up a speaker's stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u31	I think that's corruption, too. And I have a feeling that unfortunately in our system we have the elements that enable corruption, the legal elements and these elements we will not, unfortunately, be able to challenge or destroy with such legal proposals as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is giving us at this time. We do not intend to support such a law in the Slovenian National Party. However, we do not intend to support him because we do not want him to get the feeling at any time and to boast and lie about it because the National Assembly has adopted the law, the National Assembly has made its own. It is not true, it has adopted a bad law, it has adopted a law that will blurt out, and it has adopted a law without criminal sanctions, with a small circle of beneficiaries or those who are legitimizing them. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the law should be refined, in particular in that part on criminal provisions, in particular in scope. It is true, however, that with our decisions of the National Assembly, we Members and Members create conditions for corruption. However, we create these conditions regrettably with desire and vision, which is so much more painful, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague Ptræ that he will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, let me just tell my colleague Pect that not only do I not want to, but I must not limit the debate. Once again, I ask that no one make any statements that anyone else would accept as offensive, we do not need to repeat yesterday's situation. Comrade Potts has the floor, followed by Comrade Podobnik. That's all. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For our consideration and adoption, the government has proposed a law to prevent conflicts of interest and to limit corruption. The process of enacting this law and the approach to its contents will show whether the parties speak of corruption only because of their promotion and to show, for example, examples that politically benefit them and harm their opponents, or whether they want to ensure effective detection and sanctioning of corruption whenever and wherever it occurs. The United List of Social Democrats strongly supports the proposed anti-corruption legislation, together with the national anti-corruption programme. It will do everything to ensure that the proposed legislation, when assessing possible improvements and additions, accepts as soon as possible that a decisive fight against corruption and all forms of abuse of the situation, illegal exploitation and privileges becomes one of our priorities, which will also ensure the ability and accountability of all institutions that can ascertain this. The United List of Social Democrats is aware that in the fight against corruption can only be successful in a country where the authorities and all responsible institutions, together with the public, are based on the belief that the fight against corruption is primarily a social task. From the belief that the strictest social and moral standards are needed to prevent corruption. And from the belief that the extent of corruption is not essential for its elimination, because it always remains covered in the work, but the belief that it is necessary to create systemic and factual conditions, that these phenomena are prevented in full, that each such phenomenon is a social problem individually and that, as far as it occurs, it must also be detected and punished in good time and decisively. It cannot be said that we have no rules, laws and bodies in Slovenia to prevent and sanction corruption. We have them, but they are not effective enough, and above all they are not connected enough to a comprehensive system that would work more effectively. That is why the United List of Social Democrats also accepts the assessment that the situation of corruption in Slovenia is not critical. But not so much so that we can be carefree to him. In Slovenia, in particular, there has been a significant increase in awareness of the danger and presence of corruption in recent years. That's good. It is not good, however, that this has not been adequately enhanced by the effectiveness of bodies which detect and sanction corrupt acts, as such a situation also contributes to the growing discontent and mistrust of citizens in the performance of law enforcement, prosecution and justice authorities, especially when it comes to corruption by holders of important administrative and public powers. These tasks are also of particular importance because, at the time of the changes in the political and economic system, we have allowed the desire for profit and easy profit to have a broad understanding of legality, and above all a very tolerant, legal and moral understanding of the actions allowed for a common consequence, in order to increase the property of a small group of citizens to such an extent that the majority do not believe or cannot understand that this is possible only in a legal way, without breaking the laws or at least at the time of their abuse. And the powerlessness of public authorities, which is common in such cases, creates doubts about social standards and the fairness of the laws adopted or their implementation. And unfortunately, there are a lot of such cases, a lot of them, so I'm not going to list them. The question is, however, whether some laws may have only been adopted too superficially without sufficient consideration that I will not say intentionally to allow for the rapid and disproportionate enrichment of a small group against the majority. In particular, elements of corruption can be found in such behaviour. Finally, the United List of Social Democrats particularly welcomes the adoption of anti-corruption legislation, since, in addition to the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function, it proposed to postpone its treatment until a government anti-corruption law is submitted to the National Assembly. We now have it, and we estimate that we have done the right thing, because the law being tabled is far more comprehensive and better, it deals with much broader issues and at the same time includes proposals made by the opposition's proposal. I stress this so that there will be no more unrealistic talk about who wants and who does not want to adopt anti-corruption legislation. Finally, we are pleased that the law was created by the creative cooperation of the Anti-Corruption Office, because it was at the very heart of the government's attitude towards this body and, vice versa, that they tried to demonstrate contradictions and to the government to make it clear that they were once again confusing the actual responsibility. The proposed anti-corruption legislation and the evaluation of the most responsible officials of the Anti-Corruption Office completely devalues these non-objectives, and that is a good thing. Because it reaffirms once again that we can get to the right legislation and effective anti-corruption action only with the joint action of all, but not by saying to each other that we are not prepared or anything else. With our full support for the proposed solutions, however, we would like to point out that it is precisely when the law is being examined that we pay particular attention to the following issues: re-assessment of the appropriateness of the envisaged set of officials to whom the law applies. We welcome a largely expanded circle, but in particular whether it includes, to a sufficient extent, public service and public sector officials, in the sphere of public resources, where corruption is certainly or is particularly possible. Furthermore, whether the competent authorities - I am thinking mainly of the State Commission for the integrity of security - are given sufficient powers to operate effectively. In doing so, we are aware of the need to respect the division of power and the principles of the rule of law, but it is necessary to verify all mechanisms that otherwise ensure the necessary effectiveness, especially other law enforcement authorities and the judiciary, on which it is often justified that they do not work effectively enough, perhaps even because of political interests or corruption in their own kind. Finally, it is necessary to assess the appropriateness of the penalties provided for, both in order to waive the obligation to register or accept gifts and the authority to give them, as well as clear and effective procedures for the termination of the function of those who fail to fulfil their obligations prior to the declaration of property. We are aware that all issues cannot be settled in this law. Therefore, we must ensure that the additions to other laws allowing abuse for personal benefit and to the detriment of employees, small shareholders, business partners complementing, if necessary, material and procedural criminal rules so that certain socially unacceptable conduct cannot remain unpunished. The law enforcement authorities, supervisory institutions, the prosecution and the judiciary must make it clear at the earliest possible date whether such additions are necessary and, if so, propose them. In particular, we also need to set clear priorities and internal control mechanisms so that individuals cannot abuse their extensive powers, independence and professional autonomy for their own good or even for their own good. Unprofessionality, unwillingness to act decisively or even personal relations, political cohesion must not and cannot be a reason for corruption not to be detected and perpetrators not to be punished. This must also be ensured by measures of internal control and administrative control over the functioning of these independent institutions. Only this can ensure respect for the principle of equality before the law, as well as the principle of alleged innocence, since it is expected that the public will often be punished even in cases where the guilt will not be proven or will not be proved. We will be pleased if we join all the parties, the coalition and the opposition in working together on the proposed solutions. This is indeed a common social concern and a common task. We hope that this time, not the prestigious issues and political interests of the parties, will prevail, but the objective needs of the country, especially the expectations of people that the emergence of corruption and illegal crime will be much more successful and more decisive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. My colleague, Janez Podobnik, will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and his colleague, Brejc, the SDS Group of Members. First of all, Comrade Podobnik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Mr. Minister, Director of the Office, Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party and the Group, we welcome the efforts of the government as well as the Anti-Corruption Office, which are geared towards establishing legal and institutional frameworks to combat corruption. The bill that is being discussed in the National Assembly today, as well as the proposal for a national programme, are, in our view, a good basis for starting a period when we establish an open public debate on corruption in Slovenia. This is a topic that was until recently unwanted, almost taboo, but we said, good base and nothing more, so, good base and nothing more. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect the majority to support it today in the National Assembly and the law will continue its journey into the procedure. If this happens, we will then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, propose some amendments and the emphasis of the law itself. In our view, it is also not the best way to travel to the content of the law itself, that the initiative for it comes only from the executive branch of power. This is perfectly legitimate, but unfortunately there is no sufficient condition for a successful and long-term continuation of the fight against corruption. If anyone thinks we're just going to go through the adoption of the law, we're going to reverse the campaign process, he's wrong. There is also a conceptual question whether we need a special law, whether we need it or not. If today the majority decides that we need it, the parliamentary group will also vote, so that the path as it has been routed is a good one. Then we'll fix the current law. There is no doubt, however, another path that is also an experience of some other countries. By implementing the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the Limitation of Corruption, we will be given the first professional institution in Slovenia to fight corruption. It seems to us that there is a need for special attention to be given to it. Also because there are some solutions in the proposed law, in the draft law, regarding the employment and appointment of its members, we do not seem to be the happiest. In our view, it is also a poor practice, professionally and politically, that someone who is a formal proposer and a writer of the law should incorporate such provisions into this law, in order to ensure that he or she is already in a new institution. This is where we talk about it when we talk about preventing conflicts of interest and limiting corruption. To avoid misunderstandings, we appreciate the work of the office, and we also appreciate the Director's work. But is it politically opportunistic and hygienic to actually extend the mandate you have with the law? This is also a fundamental issue of the political culture of law-makers. It also applies to other law-makers, not just that. The fight against corruption has a centuries-long history in developed, democratic countries. The proposal for a law might also be good if analyses of such anti-corruption activities were presented. Some point out, I am talking about the Slovenian situation now, that there is corruption, to which we have witnessed during the period of transition, to belong within the framework of so-called patronage or patronage. And experience says that the majority of executive branches of power are over other branches of power, and over the economy, over the academic sphere, over civil society, as well as over the media. And, as it is said, because the proposal for a law and the proposal for a national programme came from the executive branch of power, we propose and expect other branches of government, including the economy, civil society and the media, to participate in the process of this law. By adopting the bill, as well as a proposal for a national programme, as proposed by the government, we will have strong anti-corruption bureaucracy in Slovenia. That can be good, but it can't be good. So let this city be an opportunity to draw attention to one of the possible traps that could happen. We note the provisions in the proposed law allowing a new anti-corruption state institution to create a network of officials to take care of the implementation of individual anti-corruption measures in individual state bodies. There is a risk that the proposed solution will over-centralise the fight against corruption and offer an opportunity to create a real administrative intelligence service that would gather information on the functioning of public and public administrations without any reason, and in particular monitor the activities of local communities. We will advocate that the development of anti-corruption plans will be largely left to individual institutions, as well as to the training of staff in this area. I'd like to talk to you about the role of civil society. As it is said, unfortunately, the whole sphere of civil society did not participate enough in the initiative itself or in the drafting of this law. Such warnings and warnings also come from abroad. The United Nations is preparing a special convention on the fight against corruption, which is expected to be adopted by the end of this year. Article 13 states that the State must promote the participation of individuals or non-governmental civil society organisations in the functioning of its bodies in the prevention of corruption. Although the proposal for a national programme declares such measures, we miss in the proposal for a law that there are no explicit forms of encouraging NGOs and individuals to participate in the fight against corruption. On the contrary, the bill thus gives almost all powers to the new anti-corruption institution, rather than leave a substantial part of the preventive measures to NGOs and individuals, and offer appropriate material opportunities. Such provisions would, in our view, encourage the emergence of non-governmental anti-corruption movements. The United Nations Convention also recommends that the State ensure greater public competence in decision-making processes; to ensure effective access to public information; to promote greater sensitivity to corruption; to develop education programmes on corruption phenomena, which should also be included in public school programmes and also in university study curricula; to respect and promote the freedom to seek, obtain and publish information on corruption; to ensure anonymous access to public anti-corruption institutions and to ensure that they can effectively communicate all information on corruption phenomena set out in this Convention. As we expect Slovenia to ratify this Convention, we propose that these provisions be incorporated into the proposed law and also into the national programme. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also propose that the proposer reconsider the way in which the law is drawn up, both of which are the national programmes, and that all other actors be included in the next stage of adoption. To avoid misunderstandings, I reiterate that every initiative and effort to combat corruption must be welcomed. However, while it is not politically desirable, it should be said bravely in this place that it is necessary to realize that such efforts can also be completely ineffective and harmful if they are not sufficiently weighed and in line with good practice that has developed in many countries. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to speak from the City of the National Assembly just a few more sentences on the principle of the division of power. The Government must be aware of the constitutional principle of the division of power. The intervention of the government in other spheres of power may also be contrary to the Constitution. I therefore propose that, particularly with the legal services and other behaviours we have, we re-examine whether it is correct, including in terms of legal culture, to simply abolish the functioning body of the national assembly, parliament, whatever it is, by means of the bill proposed by the Government. This seems unhygienic to me as a long-standing parliamentarian. In this case, the law should abolish a working body which, for its competence, has the incompatibilities of public functions with a gainful activity. We therefore appeal and propose that, in the further phase of the drafting of the two documents, Member groups, the working bodies of the National Assembly and all its professional services be more actively involved in this work. As we say, we will support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group tonight's vote that the proposal for a law to prevent conflicts of interest and to limit corruption is a good basis for further proceedings. And in this process, we will actively cooperate with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. My colleague, Dr Brejc, will present the views of the SDS Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague, the Vice-President of the SMS Group. Dr. Brace's colleague first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u37	Dear Mr President, Minister, Director of the Office!Colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today, we are talking a lot about corruption, and there are many statements made by the various groups of Members. However, my impression is that some have not read the law or that they must not say what they really think of it. In fact, corruption is complex, political, legal, social and I do not know what kind of deviating phenomenon there is. The illegal conduct of those who give and accept bribes is such a serious social phenomenon that we also need to talk about it seriously. And this place should be a place for serious discussion. Corruption is also a universal phenomenon, undermining the foundations of every democratic society, undermining the principle of legality, equality before the law, and ultimately the market economy is at risk. If we look at the causes of corruption anywhere in the world, we find the same situation everywhere. The social environment is tolerant of corruption, lack of real political will to fight corruption, rapid economic social change, strong family, ethnic, political ties, state monopoly in the economic field, low wages in the public sector, poor governance, inadequate public service selection procedures and so on. And, in the world, there are also different forms of fighting corruption. In the first place, however, more or less are written by the police and the judiciary, which, of course, treat corruption as a criminal offence under criminal law. There are also special government anti-corruption services, which have a kind of preventive awareness-raising function and also exist in this global world, as we call it, ethical infrastructure, perhaps this is a little strange expression, including control and prevention mechanisms, and this is Slovenia. We have, well, more or less solid legal bases for the prosecution of corruption, a number of legal acts that are supposed to limit corruption and conflict of interest: the Public Service Act, the Public Procurement Act, the Act on the incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, we have a whole range of codes, for public servants, police officers, prosecutors, judges, doctors, etc. In short, there are plenty of these legal and other grounds, which are a clear sign of how to act, what is considered appropriate in this society, but we also have a poorly informed public. This is what our general social environment thinks is not worth being honest. The material produced by the government service also shows that a third of managers believe that corruption can contribute to development, the growth of their business, and almost half of the managers say that corruption is an inevitable part of the Slovenian economic system and 52% of managers feel that they do not need an ethical code in their organisation. This is the state of the spirit in Slovenia. We know a number of cases of alleged corruption, but the law enforcement authorities have a very different approach. Let's take a look at the case of the mayor of Cyprus. In his case, it was supposed to be - after what we could read yesterday, I think, in the newspaper - for some crimes, where, of course, there are also those mentioned here in this law, but the value would be around 100 million and, of course, the person is imprisoned because of the danger of affecting the Witnesses. In the second case, the clinical center. We have an example of buying desks where, according to their estimate, about 600 million or so, it is said, several times the amount that is to be spent in such a way and so on, some bribes are to be talked about, etc. Of course, the rumors are devastating, and they don't show talk about them, but it's interesting that - in this case, the police didn't lock anyone up, because, for example, the influence on the witnesses, the records disappear, or I don't know anything else, but, yes, why does that happen? That's the old logic, you can't blame the doctors, but what if I lie on that table once, and this doctor remembers me, that's the primitive logic of Slovenian society. Whoever's doing the wrong thing has to be getting the criticism, and it costs what it costs. Of course, such greed, which is characteristic of Slovenian politics, unfortunately also the police, does not give us any special options, not even in Europe, of course not to mention other cases. As far as I know, in Slovenia - and at the same time I am asking for the reply of the Minister or Mr Director - but as far as I know, we do not have a legal decision in Slovenia to receive bribes. There's one, I think, about giving, but, as I say, I'm asking for an explanation. The Slovenian public will be very interested to hear how many of these court decisions have been issued so far - legal ones, please, not those in some process, because these processes in Slovenia are miraculously outdated. There is also fear of revenge in the event of a corruption person being announced. People say, this one and this one is both corrupt and corrupt; they come into the office and they waste their cases there. And I say, "Excuse me, if you have any paper, you have anything concrete, you have to file a complaint, whatever," "I don't hope so, because I'm afraid of revenge." And that is, of course, because we do not have an institute in Slovenia, we do not have a system to protect those who disclose illegal things. It is said that there is no interest in dealing with corruption in our own environment - because there is no protection by the State. And as long as it's like that, it's all free. By international standards, Slovenia is also known as, what can I say, probably a medium-sized country. After what we could read in the material, our city is there between 27th and 31st, and there is also Botswana in our vicinity and so on. Now, okay--can we be satisfied with that? Why are Scandinavian countries first after non-corruption, and we are 30? That's it! Then we don't see any particular objective here to say, we're going to get close to it, let's see how the Scandinavians have this arranged. Let's rewrite a model from them! But then we should also transfer the state of the spirit to this place, which still has a very powerful experience of the past. As some spoke in this room today, I was reminded of the congregation of the SRS. Nine years ago, I led a conference organised by the International Institute of Public Administration in Brussels on the topic of corruption. And then one of the government representatives of one of the former Soviet states said, "We are not fighting corruption with us, we are fighting for effective corruption." And on the question "what's that?" he said, "Yeah, if you bribe an official, then at least do what you bribed him for." In short, we see that we're not that far away, we're just developing compared to them. I purposely ironic this because I want to show clearly how incredibly understanding we are of all these corrupt acts. And then you read the law that the government has drawn up, and in Article 1, which is a single sentence - by the way, the colleague of the Treasury may even have some kind of professional comment on this - a single sentence, which is a significant Latvian, says: "It sets out measures to implement the national anti-corruption programme, in particular in the area of identifying and addressing the causes of corruption, creating plans for integrity in the public and private sectors" and so on and so on. It is said that the phenomenon is known, difficult - we with it in some verbal way. The basic objective is, of course, clear: tackling and preventing the causes of corruption [[This is also stated in the explanatory statement or in the case of the purposes of the law.]] . However, we all know that there is nothing you can do about the law. The law is the basis that does not create some appropriate situation. But this appropriate situation can only be created if there is a political will if there is some awareness of the phenomenon. In what I'm listening to today, I can see that you're unconscious. Because you praise this marriage and you say, "Yes, I am a great basis for going forward." I'll prove to you that it's not a great foundation. But I'm not saying you can't build it. Every thing can be done. A few specific comments, that the title of the law is not very ambitious, would not go down at this moment. However, it is interesting, the law increases the number of officials, authorities and the number of employees in the public sector. This is in direct contrast to what we said last year when we passed a law on civil servants, which is in direct contradiction. If this law is passed, we'll have five officers instead of one. We'll have, I think, instead of seven employees, if I remember correctly, twenty employees. We'll have two rules of procedure. One of the rules of procedure will be adopted by the Commission, and we will have to give our consent here to this Rules of Procedure, dear colleagues and colleagues. So we're gonna get this text right here and chew it for a day or two. And, of course, the world as a supervisory authority must also have its own rules of procedure. What a well-known logical bureaucratic structure that is typical of real-socialist countries. A lot of rules, a lot of bonds, a lot of everything, and then it will. I would also like to remind you, for example, as a professor, I was once invited to participate in the Republican Social Council for the organisation of administrative and professional services. And one, two years we've been struggling, we've written a program on how to reduce these jobs. This program had about a hundred pages at the end. And one of the main conclusions was that each of the 60 congregations, at the time there were 60, must also have its own program. And in the end, we congratulated each other for making great programs. But in doing so, we had to hire a lot of people to write, spread, multiply, and so forth. How did the Japanese do it? Their program was only called "simple and speedy", fast and easy. And he only had three lines. And within three months, they reduced only the material costs of paper by 20%. We spend five tons of paper a month in this national council. People pay for all of this. We also had a commission for the source of the property, if you recall. And what were these commissions doing? They found, say, that the local dancer is working on a black afternoon and evening and that from this title he is increasing his assets, and hop on it. But no one took all the big fish, no one touched. And so it will be in this case, or so it already is. When I mentioned the Law on Public Administration Reform in Slovenia earlier. Didn't we say very clearly there, no more new organs. But this fragmentation doesn't lead anywhere. Now the government, contrary to the starting point of the reform it has adopted itself, is proposing a law in which - and this is really something fantastic already almost - it proposes an integration commission, or, as it is already called, it has a long name, as an independent body, it is a "sui generis" body. This organ is hanging in the air. Draw a schematic of the Slovenian state administration, look at it and ask yourself, "Yes, where will this commission be now?" Yeah, we'll draw another window next door. Not with the government, not with Parliament, so somewhere in this administrative universe this commission will hang. It is said that another year is not of this, but we already have, not yet, a case on the table where the government itself is acting contrary to the objectives of the reform, which has been so vigorously advocated by itself and for which we have had a high consensus in the National Assembly. And, of course, the intention and why the government is doing this, just constitutionally, instead of taking responsibility for the fight against corruption itself, it's nice to take this thing to a commission, and with that, it's nice hands of the opera, because we have a commission. And, even if it meets international criteria, they'll say so. We don't care about anything here from abroad, and we don't have to do anything - any official already in Brussels or anywhere else, and he'll even write a letter saying that we have to have it. But they don't care what our inner structure is, and they don't care what it is. It is up to us to decide what kind of structure we will have. Let's keep it effective, but it won't be the way we have it. Instead of seriously asking why the police and justice are so ineffective, the government prefers a law that has no significant effect. In addition to this commission, the legislator has also designed a council of commissions, 8 prominent people will be appointed by prominent institutions, from the President of the State to the National Assembly, the Council of Justice, because you have seen. And this is supposed to oversee the work of the Commission and at the same time the wealth situation of the President, the Deputy and the members of the Commission. It's supposed to be a supervisor. It's one of those old formulas again. Who, which inspector controls the inspectors, whose supervisor controls the supervisors. But, you see, this world too will need money for its operation, it will have its own rules of procedure, in short, members will be eligible for meetings, I think, and the costs are here. Who cares? Yeah, no one. No matter what the fight against corruption costs, it is important that we fight corruption. The 14th member of the Commission, so I was so mean before, when I said I doubt that gentlemen had read this law, article 14 is short. He says: "The Council shall have a President and a President and a Deputy President, or a Vice-President, elected by members of the Council for a period of three years." Now note: "The office of the President of the Commission is incompatible with the position of President or Vice-President of the Council." What about the members? So, for the first time, this sentence means something demented. Yeah, well, there's no one in the world who's a member of the commission. Well, that's something basic. But it's not just that, but it's allowed to be a member of the board. Yeah, that's pretty messed up with common sense. Then, Article 17, three sets of tasks, but if we really read this same law, we see that a whole series of tasks, which are very important and affect a particular area, including the integrity of individuals and institutions, are not in here. That's a lot of superficiality. But that can be fixed, of course. Article 38 is also wonderful, that is, for lovers of specialty, but there are so many of these with us that this is no longer the case. For example, he says: "The annual income data referred to in the sixth indent of paragraph 1 of the preceding article shall be reported by the official each year by a decision on income." So, after Article 37, the last indent, I'm going to submit, if I'm still an official, information on the property situation. [[And, of course, a whole bunch of things are written here.]] and at the end of the annual income, which is the basis for income. Firstly, such a provision is in direct contradiction with the intent of public administration reform, as well as - if you remember, last year we amended the Administrative Procedure Act, in which we said that the databases held by the public authorities should not require these collections from citizens to submit any documentation from this database. So, if Durs has this information, let this commission go there and get this information on official duty. We wanted to save the citizens some way with this. But, you see, the government doesn't know, it's already forgotten. I wonder what the expertise of people who make such laws is - or I wonder nothing, because it's obvious how it is. And there's one more thing. Again, I have to say that this provision is, in fact, somewhat surprising, that I do not say weak-minded. For will those who receive bribes report this on their income, or how? Can you imagine that? [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, of course he'll have to, because he's an honest man. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u38	There's no discussion from the bench, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u39	The integrity plan -- that's a good idea. This, I think, is a good idea, because, in fact, with it - if of course it was positively set up, it is repressively set - but it is worth working on this idea. Because this means that we would identify institutions and jobs where, in sayings, the greatest threat of corruption is said to be. But they're not just officials, they're not just state secretaries, Undersecretaries, advisors, referees, they're also doctors, they're all possible bosses, and so on. For it is not only he who takes it that is to blame, but he who gives it is also to blame. For example, if the police wanted to deal with it, but did not, but if the judiciary wanted to deal with it, the prosecution would take seriously the comments of motorists who say, "I can't get a job if I don't give something, and then I have to let them pay me one more time." It's common knowledge. I don't have any evidence. But, you see, nobody does anything. What would this committee do in such a case? Yeah, I think we'd be doing this very academically. I don't like this repressive aspect too much, even because this commission - if you can look at chapter 5 where it is a plan of integrity, verification, operation and so on - actually has certain powers. And now, let's say that some office or some institution, some government authority of this integrity plan doesn't accept it within a prescribed deadline and the commission comes up there and says, "Yeah, you don't have a integrity plan." You come to the public - yes, it is about as if you were already a corrupt person, disqualification is possible immediately. So I would like to draw attention to this negative approach to a good idea. Of course, there is another fine example in this marriage. See Article 47! The Commission has developed nine new records. Same story again: instead of making as few records as possible, they create nine new records! But when they take business seriously, I'll tell you there'll be another ten of them on the records they're running. Even in Article 48 of the sanctions, criminal provisions - these are milder than in the law we have proposed - we think that the matter must be taken seriously. An official who does not respond to the demands of our national assembly commission on property, etc., such an official must be taken very seriously, as well as any other official who does not respect the regulations, what is said! A citizen must respect, be punished immediately for every detail, officials and they do not have to and no one reacts. We know the names, we know everything, we know nothing. Some mayors should pay back because they received it unjustifiably, and what happens is they are Members now and they don't have to. What would my proposal be now? Now, write a new law or thoroughly recast an old law on the incompatibility of functions, which would take into account some of these comments and new ideas, that would certainly be one way. This law to reform itself also, of course, is true, but there will be many amendments and there will be a principle of connectivity and it will be very difficult to harmonise it, but it may also be possible. I wouldn't want to be negative about that. We don't need a new body, not a commission, not a world. The government should take responsibility for policy-making in this area, to fight corruption. That's the normal thing to do. Of course not the Prime Minister, he can't just have the Prime Minister, but let's say, I don't know, the Justice Minister would already be the right person, and this minister in his work circle is forming an individual, an advisor or even a job, because of me, who can prepare everything we're talking about right now: a national programme, a strategy and everything you want. This is said to be an opportunity in the existing administrative structure to provide a highly qualified team that will do so, not to create new institutions, new jobs, new officials - we have huge officials, I think we are at the world summit by number of officials per number of employees in the public sector. That's why I would have suspended the government's office so far and transferred this team to the Minister of Justice. In this direction, my proposals, our proposals, we have discussed this together. And this observation, as far as the international requirements that I'm waiting for, you know, and GRECO, and the third one, all possible associations will push us, you don't have this body. We show that our police are effective, let's show that our justice is effective, no one will ask us about some administrative or I don't know what authorities. You will say, someone will have to deal scientifically with this issue, we have a high school for internal affairs, which is perfect, we have law schools, please! In short, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party have decided not to attach this proposal at this time, nor will we call it unnecessary. We will wait for the government's response, wait for the debate and decide before the vote. The mood in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is such that this law should be brought back briefly and followed by a new text. We will also propose a public presentation of the opinions. And in the end, just let me do it. This morning at 6:30, I listened to the reports and said "piar" for this marriage. They said that today the National Assembly would consider the law, and so on, it was new and modern solutions in marriage. I find that they are neither new nor modern. And then there's this. Please see page 55: The starting point for a resolution on the national anti-corruption programme in the Republic of Slovenia. We make a starting point, then we have resolutions and then we have a national programme. Yeah, that reminds me of the old days, a lot of paper, and no effect. We're making things so complicated. Let's make a national program and a dot. And in it will be our strategy and measures and everything you want. What are you holding onto some old mental patterns that are nowhere else in the world? Oh, yes, there are, I think it was - sometimes there were 24 socialist countries, but now there are only two. In those two, that's for sure, and in Slovenia it looks as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you, colleague Brejc, for presenting the views of the SDS Group. The SMS Group will present its views. My colleague will do this, and finally my colleague, Wolf, will do it for the Group of Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Director, Colleagues and colleagues! In opening the debate on the draft law, I must stress that in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party we are committed to regulating the area under consideration. However, we also have many comments on the bill, and we also stress the need to take more account of the Commission's long-standing experience and comments under the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity when preparing and adopting the law. Article 1 of the draft law defines its content, which implies that the law should cover two areas. On the one hand, the competent commission is expected to continue the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption by carrying out strategic-analytical tasks in the field of corruption, coordination tasks and advisory and educational tasks. However, individual corruption remains a crime. And as such, the subject of criminal proceedings. On the other hand, the Commission is specifically supposed to exercise control over only a certain group of persons where corruption may occur. So, control over the assets of the officials, which has been carried out by the Commission so far under the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a gainful activity. The purpose of the Incompatibilities Institute is to ensure that, through the supervision of the official’s assets and thus by controlling the restriction of the activities of contracting entities under public procurement rules with business entities in which the official or his family member is involved, the acceptance of gifts and the non-compatibilities of individual functions or activities shall ensure the objective performance of the function or remove any doubt about the possible partial exercise of that function. By carrying out tasks under the Act of Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, the Commission shall be subject to the supervision of a commission of some preventive measure against possible corruption on the part of a particular group of persons, officials. Sanctions are not penal in terms of criminal law. Therefore, we do not see any reason why the performance of the tasks in these two areas should be brought together, since, on the basis of the proposal for a law, the competent commission should act on the one hand in an analytical, strategic, coordination and advisory and educational manner, while at the same time specifically exercising control over certain persons, which, by law, is already carried out by the Commission on the incompatibility of the public function with a gainful activity and, of course, by other bodies. As already stated by the proposer, on the grounds of the adoption of the law, GRECA proposed a group of anti-corruption countries at the Council of Europe to set up a coordination body for all authorities, institutions and sectors dealing with the prevention and detection of corruption, making their concrete work easier and more effective, but not for the incompatibility of functions. I would like to point out that in Article 2 of the draft law, the officials are not state lawyers and social defenders, since the latter are already identified by the Commission under the law on the incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity or control. However, by further laying the groundwork for defining the concept of 'functioner', which is an open question to which this Commission has also been alerting all the time, the decree by which the National Assembly, under the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act, will place individual functions in pay grade, which is also our proposal to list officials who are obliged to give their assets an overview. The proposed law is also intended to lay down fundamental rules in the areas of non-compatibilities in the performance of a public function with a lucrative activity for officials, restrictions on the acceptance of gifts in respect of the performance of a function, supervision of the assets of officials and restrictions on the business of contracting entities under public procurement rules with business entities in which a member of his family has been involved. Therefore, it is intended to lay down the basic rules already covered by the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function performed by a special commission and other bodies, such as the Council of Justice, which, in its work, implements the provisions of that Act. Thus, since 1993, that Commission has been carrying out tasks which, following a proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the restriction of corruption, should be carried out by a State authority, namely the Commission on the Integrity of Public Action, in which the President and the Deputy should be employed full-time, while the current members of the Commission, under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, should carry out these tasks within their respective functions, as they are Members and Councillors of State. An additional number of civil servants should also be employed for the smooth work of this new Commission, which in itself is an additional burden on the state budget. Furthermore, the bill provides for a two-tier system. In order to oversee the performance of the Commission's tasks, the Council of the Commission is to be established, whose members would hold office in honour, but would have the right to reimburse the costs incurred in connection with work in the world. The Council is to supervise the work of the Commission by reporting to the President of the Commission and oversee the assets of the President, the Deputy and the members of the Commission. In view of the number of members of the Council, the reimbursement of the costs of work in the world and the fact that the Council would exercise control in essence on the basis of the report of the President of the Commission, but would in fact directly monitor only the property status of the members of the Commission, the question is whether such an authority is really necessary, so that its composition does not also cover all representatives of the individual types of officials. It follows from the draft law that the Commission should also monitor the operations of contracting entities under public procurement rules with business entities in which an official or his family member has a share of more than 20% and, in the event of an infringement, have also punished them for the offence. Does this make sense in view of the fact that other authorities are already responsible for controlling the consumption of public contracts? Nor does the proposal for a law bring significant innovations in the field of restricting the exercise of gainful activities, acceptance of gifts and business. So, news that would fill open issues, which has been pointed out by the Commission all the time by the law on the incompatibilities of public functions with gainful activity. Indeed, the proposal of the law still does not solve the problem of defining the concept of an official, nor does it specifically mention everyone. The draft law does not regulate, in any way, any other than the existing Act on the incompatibility of a public function with a gainful activity and therefore does not solve cases where the official begins or continues to carry out an activity or function that is incompatible with the performance of his or her function. The Commission is to inform the competent authority thereof, and this concludes the competence of the Commission, the competent authority is only obliged to return information and nothing else. Also gifts. The gift may also constitute debt waiver or waiver of rights, which may present a problem for us to determine that the gift has been given in connection with the performance of the function. Article 40, which provides for the discharge of an official who does not provide the required data on property status, is also controversial. Failure to submit data may first form the basis for disciplinary responsibility and fines, but not automatically and solely a solution. What about the worst violations since we do not know Sharia law in Slovenia and we will not cut our hands? How, then, will others be punished if we punish them for such an initial misdemeanour? In view of the Government's existing decision of 13.7.2001 to establish a Anti-Corruption Office and whose tasks it lays down, on the basis of the draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the restriction of corruption, a Commission on the Integrity of Public Action and on the existing Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profit-making activity, this task is carried out by the Commission under the law on the non-compatibilities of the management of a public function with a profit-making activity, it seems reasonable, in the light of GRECA, that the area of the first Commission should be governed by the relevant law and that the tasks of the second Commission should be amended and the existing law should be supplemented in the direction of its more effective enforcement, in particular by addressing the most frequent issues and problems faced by the Commission under the law on the non-compatibilability of a public function with a gainful activity, in particular since the proposal is already in Parliament's procedure. In the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party, we believe that legislation in this area needs to be amended or supplemented to ensure the effective enforcement of existing mechanisms, such as the participation of tax authorities. Regarding sanctions, positive legislation should be taken into account in order to lay down penalties that would be enforceable. In particular, a special solution should be found for Members as representatives of the people who may be deprived of individual functions rather than a mandate. In short, the operational application of legal provisions should be ensured within the limits of the given powers. In accordance with your consideration of our comments, we will decide in the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party whether we will also support the complementary proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u42	Okay. Thank you very much, colleague Vnučec, for your explanation of the views of the SMS Group. Comrade Vukko, with your performance and presentation of the views of the LDS Club, you will complete the presentations of all positions of the groups. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister! Corruption, as a social fact, is always harmful everywhere. It harms both citizens and the state. It threatens the rule of law, reduces political stability and social peace, threatens confidence in the most important state institutions and other institutions, and ultimately hampers economic development. According to official data, in particular law enforcement authorities, the number of corruption offences in the Republic of Slovenia is relatively low. However, empirical research shows that corruption in the country is much more. In the parliamentary group, we believe that we still do not have enough to start reckless action to start the witch hunt. Of course, this does not mean that appropriate action is not necessary. Action at different levels and at different levels, action by the State, action by all those who can actively cooperate to help fight corruption more effectively. The bill before us can be classified among the legislative measures of the country in preventing and limiting corruption, and we point out that more will have to be done at other levels, with different approaches, with different measures. The proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the restriction of corruption, which will essentially replace the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity, has, in our opinion, taken the first step. The first step, which is small, but in terms of creating a high level of anti-corruption culture, is important. It is a matter of creating an anti-corruption culture at the personal and general social level, which is essential for a successful fight against corruption. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the bill. In doing so, of course, we welcome the Government's determination to move more decisively towards limiting and preventing corruption in the hope that we will be able to ensure the active participation of all those who can help achieve the basic objective of this law. In the Group of Members, we will continue to support those solutions that will follow this objective. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the following solutions to the law on behalf of the parliamentary group. In view of the fact that most Member States of the Union allow protocol gifts to become the property of officials, it would be appropriate to examine and allow for the possibility of a protocol gift to be bought out by the official, of course, under certain rules to be laid down. Certain dilemmas arise with regard to the termination of the function for officials in different branches of government. It is impossible to provide the same solution for determining responsibilities and sanctioning officials, the representative, executive or judicial branches of government, as well as local self-governments co-elected, or those appointed by the National Assembly, the Council of State, the Government, the Prime Minister or local community bodies. Since professional officials should not perform functions in companies, nor should activities intended to generate income, it would be appropriate to provide that they should not also perform these functions in economic interest associations, which are not covered by the concept of an economic society. An economic interest association may establish two or more natural or legal persons. However, the aim of the merger is to facilitate and accelerate the profitable activities of its members. The same applies to chambers, since in this case they are organisations which exercise public powers in large cases and in the form of status, they are either persons of public law or only legal persons. According to an assessment by the LDS Group, the proposal does not satisfactorily address the right to free economic initiative of the spouse or person with whom the official resides in an extra-legislative community or his family members with whom he lives in the same household. The applicant proposes that companies or undertakings or institutions in which these persons have a share greater than 20% of the value should not operate with the State and public undertakings and public institutions. The Commission may exceptionally authorise such operations if this is not related to the public function of the official. We believe that it will be necessary to decide whether to prohibit such an operation in its entirety or to allow it, but not to bind it to the arbitral decisions of the Commission without certain criteria. The proposal for a law, in view of some cases of abuse of power and conduct in the detriment of the owner, does not extend the control of the entire public sector and the majority of companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the local communities by the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia. These persons are now without such a control obligation imposed on them by officials, but with a significantly greater possibility of acquiring additional such assets. We therefore believe that it is necessary to examine whether control over the whole public sector should not be regulated and to supplement the entire text of the law. It's about two things in particular. Firstly, the prohibition of the operation of such legal persons with business entities where the manager or supervisory or his family member is, indirectly or directly, the holder of a business share, shares or other rights. And secondly, to establish control over their assets. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we expect clear political support at the time of the consideration of this law, as it is not possible to prevent, detect and prosecute corruption without clearly expressed political support.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u44	All parliamentary groups have explained their views. The other Members and Members will now do so. The list is quite extensive. I'll take it in a row. First, I will give my word to my colleague Bernick and his colleague Kontić. First of all, you have the floor, Comrade Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Director of the Commission. When I looked at the title of this marriage, I was kind of happy, but when I started looking at the contents, this joy broke down. This proposal is a big disappointment, and if I say pharmaceutical, this proposal is a sort of placebo for all of us here, and according to the local word, misleading Slovenian citizens. I think that the office so far, as it was, has done a good job. What is being proposed now, I think we can only get it in countries that have so-called directed democracy. I will not go to the various points of this proposal, much has already been said, but some marginal things I would like to mention. First of all, the conflict of interest between us was not particularly known, which surprised me. Others around the world have long used this concept, and when I spoke to some lawyers, they wondered what was under this concept. We in our parliamentary group have proposed that this concept be incorporated into the Civil Servants Act, and in fact this is now, if you have not already looked at in the 100th Article, which speaks of other activities and conflicts of interest. That's what they say. That was good progress. Let me also mention that the proposal contained in this law is intended to include the establishment of two committees, apart from costs, finance and new officials, I feel that this Commission has no legal action in this activity of corruption, conflicts of interest, and will in fact be more or less a kind of platonic operation of the Commission without any particular success. It is true, however, that one very interesting thing is mentioned in the commission's duty, and this is a national programme. When a person watches this program, he is glad that someone has remembered it and that somehow he has made a list of things that need to be done. One wonders how the government has not yet begun to think about the measures that would have been necessary after thirteen years of our democracy, whatever it is for some things to be included in this bill now and to be distributed to civil servants. Because I know that it will take a lot of time before this national programme is put into some final form, maybe five years, I would suggest that the government do this a little bit better, etc., that some texts and prepare a brochure for all state editors to see what they should remember if they don't remember themselves. However, I am little concerned that this proposal would not be particularly successful, because we have an extremely low standard of ethical principles in our public and also in politics. Perhaps a second proposal would be more appropriate if this and some other things that are now in our or government proposal were distributed to schools. Who teaches our youth the standards of ethics? Nobody. If this is to be shared with the young, then first it is necessary to train teachers for this matter. Let me finish with that thought. To write complicated laws, but when it comes to adoption, we're not informed by our public. In this regard too, something should be done to make people really aware of what this is all about. Here I have a brochure containing 17 pages, which was distributed by a large American company to all employees in 1994. It has only 17 pages, nothing complicated, but everyone, this brochure tells them what his business behavior must be like. It's called the Code of Business Conduct. I think it would be enough for us to get started. Another time. This proposal of the law reminds me of the other laws we have adopted, they have been adopted, but nothing has happened. I think it's one of those legislative acrobatics we're going through right now. This bill would somehow put aside the graves law, as I would say, the shameful graves law that was passed in this national assembly, but nothing has happened and nothing will happen. There we have paper, about this law or proposal, if adopted, we will have paper and this is what our authorities need for the European Union. I think we should have matured in our state-of-the-art thinking about really starting to do things for life, not going to the archives and looking good there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Comrade Dr. Bernick. My friend Kontič now has the floor and is followed by his colleague Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposed law is not something that will in itself remedy shortcomings or so - called corruption. As can be seen from the proposaler's introduction, respondents in the survey place insufficient legislation as the third cause of corruption. And here is our most important role, as well as the obvious role of citizens and citizens. Hence, we are required by unmistakable laws, in which we will not be plagued by irregularities or perhaps even abuse. This will also have to be the law, which we have heard quite a few comments in the debate. If we believe in the objectives and purposes of the law, the aim of the applicants is good, but I believe that the law will have to be supplemented by amendments in the second substantive reading. I therefore propose a few proposals for consideration. If we are already introducing a new body, its role should be further strengthened, including the establishment of sanctions that are not only proposed, it is also necessary to consider the sanctions that this Commission could implement. It will be necessary to define more precisely the evaluation of the gifts accepted by the official, who will do so and how. Possible corruption is not just on the part of those who accept the gift or perhaps even the reward. Those who give or offer are also questioned. If there is only demand and there is no supply, it is difficult to prevent the crime that we want and want to prevent. It may also make sense to establish in the law the obligation of those who give gifts to report. In this case, surveillance will be more thorough. It would not be easier to determine that gifts are not given, that gifts are not accepted, but if they are of a protocol nature and accepted by an official, they automatically become the property of the body to which the official belongs. The law lays down in detail the composition of the Commission and its appointment. It shall determine that the term of office of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission shall be six years without the possibility of reappointment. I assess that the mandate given the mandate of the officers has been properly assessed, but it is a questionable ban on the renewal of the term of office for the President and Vice-President, who will serve in the professional capacity. The reason I see them is at least two: the work is professional and good staff only for six years will not be so easy to obtain, and will not this also expose them to various pressures. And secondly, why replace someone who does a good job and has gained experience. The replacement should be provided for inadequacy of the performance of the work. As I said in the introduction, a better law would bring together all the forces in this area and give the Authority greater powers. Nevertheless, the proposed law is a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much, colleague Kontic, colleague Rokavec now you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister and Director of the Office! The fact is, in fact, as has been found many times already today, corruption is a major problem in every society, including ours. This awareness has come to us as well. The fact is that corruption is very difficult to detect, control and so on. To prevent corruption, I think it is most necessary to create a positive social environment. I believe that just adopting a law is not enough to create a positive social environment. It is probably necessary not only by the government, but now we will go into the so-called anti-corruption programme, we will propose a law that will end in the future, but all those institutions that are already operating at this point need to be able to make it work. This is likely to be a first step in detecting and preventing corruption. I believe that one positive political gesture is if the law is also adopted in this regard. I doubt, however, that such as is proposed to eliminate or start to tackle the problem of corruption in Slovenia in a global way. In fact, Prime Minister Churchill of England said, "If you can't solve the problem or you don't want to solve it, then set up a commission." As has already been said today, more than a third of the law deals only with articles on the Commission, while the second on the powers of the Commission which affect all branches of government, irrespective of the legislation adopted in this area, also creates new conditions of incompatibility of functions and mainly affects only officials. I say that in the Republic of Slovenia, the biggest problem for corruption is not just the officials. In the 2002 survey, 44.2% of respondents felt that public servants were accepting bribes, not officials, it was said that 31 surveyed managers felt that corruption, at least to some extent, could contribute to development, the growth of their business and the Slovenian economic system. More or less this law does not touch. Second, the third league is the one that draws fate to ministers and then to a lower level of implementation of programmes. If this law does not contain this, we will probably not embrace the global essence and the importance of fighting corruption and creating a positive climate that corruption will not take place in Slovenia. And now for the commission itself. As has already been said today, the commission is appointed by the President of the Republic, two members, then the Council of Justice, the Assembly of State and so on, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we have completely missed civil society, civil initiative. Civil society is the one who can actually look under the hands of the ruling structures. It cannot be the government itself or the national assembly or the majority of the national assembly or the President of the Republic who will detect and prevent corruption themselves. Here we must also include this factor in the functioning of the Commission if we want this Commission to be a commission that would actually start to identify and prevent and, above all, create an environment for reducing corruption in Slovenia. Otherwise, I believe that we will set up another body, form a number of other officials, and thus also encourage the state budget, and perhaps say, we have adopted a law to combat corruption, to prevent conflicts of interest, incompatibility, we are on the right track, Czech Republic, Slovenia is residing in this European world. As at this point, if we are also looking at the case of health care, the proposal for health reform, a typical example of how voters actually get their hands on it, we are on the best track to solve all these problems. However, we do not have those main instruments that could actually solve these problems. That seems like a big problem. If I go any further, it's about identifying the officers themselves. Already in the government proposal, on page 33 and 32, when it comes to who the officials are, under the current rules, I do not see any State secretaries here that they are officials. On page 32, not in the law itself. I claim that the Secretary of State is now in office. Otherwise, I think it's a fact that we're just going over the lines. Article 2 is unacceptable, as I said earlier, that this law covers only officials and family members of officials. I think it's even more absurd that they're local community officials, we know who they are, the mayor and the municipal councilors. These are officials in the local community. When we look at the possibility of incompatibilities in the conduct of certain activities, I believe that this law is completely inconsistent. I'll tell you a few cases. Article 20 of this Act states in the second paragraph that, irrespective of paragraph 1, a professional official may carry out teaching, scientific, research, artistic, cultural and public work. However, Article 31 states that the business entities referred to in Article 29 of this Law "are not entitled to State aid", further, "no agricultural aid is also eligible for State aid, no holdings with officials and their family members". Under Article 20, when it speaks of who else may be engaged in a professional activity, agricultural activities are no longer available, which, under the Act on the Incompatibilities of Functions, can actually now be performed and then this continues in Article 50 when it comes to the termination of the law. I believe that there is a first disharmony and a lack of harmony, which is very evident in the law itself. I also think it is inappropriate for us to talk in this law about those small fishes, 15,000. Up to 15 grand can be accepted as a bribe. For fifteen thousand bribes, no one's made a fortune in this country. The worst problems are others, and the police, the criminal service, the prosecution, the judiciary, and immediately. That's the problem. Then every such case takes so long that it is obsolete, just in case it comes into the public domain, if it doesn't get under the rug first. I believe it is appropriate to say from this general social political climate at this time that something should also be done at the legislative level. From this point of view, if there are also satisfactory answers to the concerns that have been raised and the issues raised in the debate, I will finally be able to support the proposal for a law. I believe that the law must solve one fundamental dilemma until the second reading. First time. Are we really going to set up a special commission or are we going to give some additional powers under this law to those bodies that they already have under their sectoral legislation, or are we going to form a commission that is possible for only one coordination? Another time. Are we going to harmonise each other as to how the country will actually prevent corruption of the greatest scale? That we won't be there for that 500-toler corruption, maybe we'll turn the door for someone, and billions will pass us by. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much. My friend Janez Janša now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. There, in the mid - 1970 ’ s, the former Yugoslav marshal discovered that he was not only rich but also some others in that country. And that didn't seem right to him. There has been a significant letter, a meeting of party February, which has clearly been attached to these findings. This led to the establishment of well-known commissions to identify the origin of assets. But the more the then party February, especially in Slovenia, read that letter, the more they found that it was essentially for them, that those who had much wealth, weekends to live well, and that if what was written in these political guidelines were to be realized, it would be primarily for their heads. Then, instead of perhaps reforming the institutions of the country, which existed at the time, in order for the judiciary to prosecute corruption and unjustifiable wealth, they set up some party commissions to determine the origin of property. And in these commissions, those who had the most assets and found the origin of this property wrote numerous reports, reports. In the end, there wasn't much. Most of the time, it's all gone. Except they were punishing some craftsmen. These were then prosecuted, and it was in the newspaper as such an exemplar case. People laughed about it. At that time, Paula wrote to Popitus, who copied the weekend for his son, and then led a commission that identified the property. In short, nothing happened. It is a case of someone who sees that something should be done when a social problem is revealed, finding that it is actually about him, that he is also called to react, and is looking for a way to avoid action or to avoid such action in order to be harmed himself in the end. We're in a very similar situation now. In 1994, our parliamentary group proposed an anti-corruption law or additions to the then incompatibilities legislation. The government then replied - we have a written opinion - that this is not necessary, that the existing legislation is perfectly okay, that if there is something wrong, they will complement and so on. Nothing's finished. This commission in the National Assembly had serious difficulties in obtaining wealth reports from a handful of officials who were even obliged to give or give. Even today, many officials, especially those from government parties alone, have not given these reports. The cases of Sandi Češka, Mr Kovacic, former director of HIT, etc. are known. Still, despite many calls, public announcements, etc., these reports have not been submitted. And that's because there's no sanctions. The law does not provide for any sanctions if the Commission fails to obtain such reports. The National Assembly held a debate on this in 1999 and concluded that the Government had to draft a law or supplement to the existing law, but that nothing had happened in four years. By the end of April of this year, our parliamentary group has introduced a law that solves the essence of the problem of incompatibility. We have suggested expanding the range of officials who have to report their assets. We have suggested that this information, as far as legislation allows, is public. We have proposed that sanctions be imposed on those who do not submit these reports. We have proposed three measures to address the issue. At that time, however, the government opposed the law by preparing its own solutions. We now have these solutions here in the form of a law that has a very unfortunate title. Already in the title came the expression, unknowingly, that essential problem faced by government men when they found that they had to pursue themselves or their own, those in power, because there was most corruption or almost exclusively corruption there. In public procurement, in matters where a person can decide over a species and where he can make a selection because he can ensure that they are not all the same before the law. In short, the problem is solved by someone who is involved, who is part of the problem, but who wants to be part of the solution or who wants to be a solution. As it is said in the law itself, in the very title of this law, this dilemma is very clear, for the government does not propose to prevent corruption but merely to restrict it. Obviously, the aim of the proposaler is not to prevent corruption, not to prevent this phenomenon, but to restrict it. The content of the law itself is like that. The sanctions proposed by the law are substantially milder than those proposed by us in the amendments to the incompatible law. The mechanisms proposed are so complicated that, for the first time, they will take a lot of time if anything is done and, for the second time, allow arbitration. So, something to deal with, something not to deal with, someone to expose in public, not to expose someone else. As a result, this attempt on the part of the government, however good, is unfortunate. The law before us is long and unclear and does not solve the things that we have resolved in some articles in the proposals to amend the existing law. The law introduces a true system similar to some of the spheres that we have sometimes regulated through self-management, where people, newly employed state officials, will produce an integrity plan, an integrity assessment, check the functioning of the institution, in accordance with the integrity plan received, and similar nonsense. Where are the laws, where are the institutions we already have, which we are already paying to operate? If this law is enforced as proposed, we will get completely opposite results from those proposed. Instead of reacting, rather than reacting to irregularities in its kind and thus ensuring the functioning of the rule of law, the executive power is lost here in some very general proposals nothing that will produce results. We have the prosecution, we have the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General's Office, who has lost a year's notice in the case of the Bank's SIB. Mrs Cerarjev is still unable to tell the Slovenian public where the complaint was lost, but she was still not found and sent early last year. We have not learned anything about the fact that the Attorney-General would order any control over the one who has lost the charge itself, which was addressed to her, no one checks it, including the government, the justice minister, and no one checks it, but it's a billion-dollar matter. No, Mrs Cerarjeva is involved in politics, checking Brezigarjevo, a candidate for the last presidential elections, is taking training in China. The taxpayers of this country have been paid or we will still pay for the general prosecutor's official travel to the country known to have the most corruption. I wonder what she learned there because it's a system of action in this country. There was a time when the entire world press was writing about how China censored Hillary Clinton's entire autobiography, and the whole world is dealing with the issue of human rights and the functioning of the rule of law in China, and we are here on television by the Attorney-General, who is teaching about what a good system this is, and the government is not saying anything about it, although the Minister of Justice should have told us earlier when the charges of a very important case were lost. If this law is enforced, we will get a new institution with a large number of new employees. Here, the existing Anti-Corruption Office obviously wants to slightly improve its status and provide services in advance. We will get new government officials, high costs and we will also get new officials in existing institutions, because under this law these institutions will have to write reports to this new office, and this will be done by people who will be hired there. These will be new tasks, there will be new systems and new jobs. Instead of working more closely in these institutions to prevent corruption, they will write reports to an office which, of course, does not have any powers under the Slovenian Constitution as these regular institutions do, they cannot have them. That is why he will require always new reports, make analyses, and in these analyses will be what will please the Prime Minister. Under this law, the Prime Minister is to propose the head of this office and also to elect him. I would like to know how this office will then pursue corruption, possible corruption, concerning the Prime Minister. Probably like now that Mr Penko has made a statement about how corruption is a major problem in the country, the next day he said on television that this does not, of course, apply to the current Prime Minister. [[Laugh.]] Yes, understand who can. It is equally interesting to listen to another man in this office now, Mr Kos, as he advocates respect for human rights and for the rule of law, while at the same time it has been found in the court that he has abused special methods and means and has illegally listened to Rance's journalist - and he is now pursuing corruption. God help! The best cure for corruption is that in democracy they are not always the same in power. If they are always one and the same in power and they set up anti-corruption offices, then we are soon where China is today. What needs to be done at this time is to put in place proposals that we have already put forward our proposal for amendments to the incompatible law. It is necessary to extend the range of officials who are required to report on the property situation to members of the boards of supervisors of public undertakings everywhere where public funds are located and in between the state as owner. This situation must be more or less public because it is a matter of performing public functions. The one who goes into the public sphere has to accept that people will also know his wealth. This is normal in all democratic countries. Sanctions should be imposed on those who do not submit these reports, so that we do not repeat Sandi Czecha and all other officials from government parties who were state councillors, Members and so on, State secretaries, and have not submitted these reports, have not been sanctioned or have never been replaced, nor have they ever been punished in their own parties. And if this law is adopted, this will continue more or less because sanctions are relatively mild or significantly milder than those proposed by us and do not constitute any guarantee that the law will be respected. Here are two very clear alternatives, or something to do with the measures that we have proposed, because of us in this existing law, if you are willing to include this in another reading, or if you continue to throw sand in your eyes, in order to prevent corruption by establishing new institutions, by employment in the public administration, by increasing red tape. The longer truth is the right opposite, the more bureaucracy is the possibility of corruption. There's a no-good in power, there's more chance of corruption. These are essential problems, and this law does not solve them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Janša. My friend, Dr. Andrey Bajuk has the floor now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Rokavec beat me up and mentioned a well-known statement by former British Prime Minister Churchill, if you don't want to do anything, he'll set up a commission. Of course, we, apart from the commission, will establish a world, at least that's how the government proposes to us. You just have to ask yourself why. We have heard many things today, once again, that such proposals, which would actually address this problem, were already in this State Assembly in 1994. What was our government's approach back then? We don't need this in Slovenia. Events later, various privatisations, transformations, property, social dispersion have only brought about the establishment of a government based on its own decision to prevent corruption. This office is proposing to us today through the government this law. There is no law that could replace what is at the heart of the problem of corruption in Slovenia. This is the political will of the authorities to actually do something in this area. Every day we find that this is not the political will. The case of SIB has already been mentioned. One year nothing happened, nothing happened, the papers got lost in the state's attorney's office. When the opposition reiterated this in the National Assembly, we only admitted that something was just wrong. But even though it's billions, nothing's happening yet. The law enforcement authorities are supposed to do something, but months are running. The Prime Minister's statements in this National Assembly on how he will take action for all of this and have almost fallen into oblivion. There is no political will on the part of our authorities to actually see something happen in this area. We find this every day and in concrete cases. And I'm going to bring another case again, because it's certainly close to my colleagues and colleagues, and it's a law on public procurement. It is now at least partially clear in the Slovenian public that it is a very large sum, over 460 billion tolars in 2002 are flowing through these rules, which are written there. However, the Slovenian government has one approach which is completely unacceptable, which has already been clearly established, but does nothing in this area. What did we get into the National Assembly two years after this same national assembly demanded it? Such a bill, which we almost had to send back unanimously because it is impossible, unreadable and does not solve problems. Surely you remember when we discussed this, I proposed, of course not in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, but in accordance with common sense, that this bill would also involve the Anti-Corruption Office in order to record in at least thirty days what they have learned in all these years when they are looking at these things to help us in the National Assembly. The decision could not be adopted. But what role did this office have to play in this bill proposal, we do not know, and I hope that in those ten minutes you will have, Mr Director, that you will answer questions about this national assembly to answer this question: Did you have any role at all? And if not, I recommend that you have it, because otherwise you have this duty under the regulation set up by your office, otherwise acting on the basis of the coordination of the profession in the preparation of anti-corruption legislation. It would be interesting to hear your answer. However, in this particular case, public procurement, where even the most flat-rate assessment is both the opposition and the opposition, would have been possible if at least a minimum order in this area had been decided on, could have resolved more than half the deficit in our budget. There's nothing to talk about, there's no work to be done and there's no rational approach to be proposed. So it's not political will. And even if we're going to set up commissions and saints, if you don't have political will, then it's a waste of every effort. What we are preparing is that this environment, which has already been named, has been growing in our social environment, because we are very close to having an ordinary citizen quietly admires corruption and the people who deal with it, when it is indeed a "maher" and he can take care of himself. And this is the beginning of the end of the rule of law and a regulated society. And why is that? Because there is no political will and there is no minimum approach that the healthy Slovenian mind knows, and this is a good example. The fish still smelled on its head, and it still smells on its head today. Until the Slovenian government takes a firmer approach to this area, laws are in vain, in vain of all the effort. And just finishing my story on the law of public procurement. In one national broadcast, we heard a government representative, a state secretary of the Ministry of Finance, who said that we will now correct this law, and next year we will do the right thing. So, gentlemen, there is no political will, no political will! We figure it out every day, we figure it out two nights ago, and then it's gonna happen. But that's all I'd ever end up with. The new anti-corruption commission. Interesting. This is a completely unacceptable approach to me, it is not limited, it is impossible to limit such a thing. But that in itself gives the right signal as to what it is. And I would ask you one more question. Not only you, Mr Director, who insists, Mr Minister has already gone, who insists on this debate. Do you remember that in 1998 the Slovenian Government set up a commission to implement the bureaucrat programme? Since we have this commission, the number of employees in the public administration in Slovenia has increased by 25%. That is exactly what will happen to this committee and any other commission we will set up. If there is no political will, it is a waste of vas Trude and the efforts of this national assembly! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague mag. To say that the Minister of Justice has gone to Brussels, I suppose, where the Council of Ministers meets and apologizes to the National Assembly for not being present in the discussion. The director of the office, Mr Penko, will be here and he will have a word in the end. Mag. Spending now has a word. Behind her, if she's present, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When I express my support for the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption, I must also point out immediately that I am aware at the same time that this proposal is neither ideal nor is beyond its power if it is adopted and corrected, so far as corruption can be prevented or even eliminated. If that were the case, then we would not need such a law, since the existing legislation with a number of provisions already allows us to pursue corruption. Finally, a greater degree of corruption behaviour can be observed among people, just to mention the example of the Municipality of Maribor, which has a public service code published on its websites. In doing so, I would like to point out, however, that corrupt acts by officials must be passed on to those who are not officials, but only employees, and I am moving into the field of the problem called corruption exposure. I don't see the title of the law as critical as anyone else might see it. I believe that this title or the interpretation of this title can also move in this direction, that preventing conflicts of interest is actually the right path, which reduces opportunities for corruption, which reduces opportunities for corruption. At the same time, I am a realist, and I do not imagine that corruption can be completely eradicated. Let me not be offended by the National Assembly if I recall my initial professional activity and point out that in a variety of literary texts it is possible to see a person as a positive person’s ability to find out. To get to know one another, he often has signs of acts of corruption. But I can start with Linhart's Mother, and I can go somewhere else. This is another phenomenon that can be traced or understood by the introduction to this law. I note that there is a significant gap between the official data that speaks of detected cases of corruption crimes and the general perception of corruption. In doing so, I would remind you of the data recorded on the 29th page of the Rapporteur, which discusses 51 corruption crimes between the 77,218 other crimes. I do not go into what value an individual attaches to various opinion polls, but it is very interesting that while 44.2% of respondents believe that public employees are corrupt, a slightly lower percentage of respondents can confirm this with personal experience. It would be interesting to know what the answers would be if we were to respond honestly. What would be the percentage of the answers to the question whether they would be willing to offer the bribe themselves if it allowed them to do so, and that would be the appropriate outcome of their wishes. I have given particular thought to this matter at the time of the 8th report of the Ombudsman, when, among other things, the Ombudsman, on individual initiatives he received in 2002, states that there are quite a number of initiatives for which or where individuals expect assistance from the Ombudsman when it comes to eccentric non-compliance with the legal provisions if the Ombudsman is to help and enforce their initiative. That's how it comes to me, or that's how it's revealed to me as a big problem, in fact, precisely understanding corruption. It seems to me that the definition set out in the annex to the bill is broad enough to alert an individual to the fact that it is not only in danger of corruption and persecution that abuses his or her position or does not do what he or she should do on official duty but also commits a crime that offers a reward or any other benefit. Therefore, it seems to me that up to the achievement of the objective set out in the annex, this is zero tolerance for corruption, where all corruption would be deemed unacceptable in itself, that it is an ideal to which we can aspire, but it is difficult to reach if it is not unfulfilled. While we all express concern about the scale of corruption, of course, we are thinking about the most visible, visible corruption with the greatest economic consequences, it seems very important to me that in the proposed material it is possible to point out that all measures directed against corruption are not such as to constitute an infringement of alleged innocence and that universally recognized human rights and freedoms are guaranteed to an individual. That is why it seems important to me in the proposed law that part of the bill that talks about the advisory and educational tasks of the State Integrity Commission - and in doing so again I leave it aside whether it will be named whether it will be established or not, but I am concerned with the tasks entrusted to it, because it is only in this way that I imagine that it will be possible to limit the phenomenon in due course and that it will be possible to convince the public that corruption cannot be limited only by severe penalties [[interestingly, in opinion polls, as many as 25% of respondents believe that the rise in corruption is due to the fact that penalties are too low]] but to realize that corruption can also be limited to all those actions that fall within the framework of prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I don't see my friend Kangler, so I give my word to my friend Dr. Brejc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u57	Just one sentence. That's my personal opinion. This marriage reminds me of the spider's net, the little flies catch up with it, and the big flies rip it apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much. My colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Director, colleagues, colleagues! Different countries are fighting corruption in different ways. The results of these efforts and the ways in which they are achieved are always dependent on those who have the right and the duty in these countries to make the final decision in the rules establishing the legal framework. Today we are starting a debate and in the end we will be the one to decide. It is up to us alone whether and how Slovenia will resist the phenomenon that has already led to the collapse of economic, political and social systems in countries that have dared to commit corruption and prevent it. Of course, there are two ways to deal with problems. By accusing each other of who and why it is to blame that we are not doing any better in this area than we are, I hope that it is even going, namely, by washing dirty laundry from the whole of the self-sustainment period or by making an appropriate and calm assessment of the situation, and by taking appropriate measures to ensure, on the one hand, full respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and at the same time establish what is necessary for what in the most civilized countries forms the basis for a fair, transparent and responsible implementation of obligations in all situations and in all areas: from the President of the State to the mayor of the least municipality, from the State administration to private enterprises, corruption can appear everywhere and conditions for preventing it must be created everywhere. We must not turn a blind eye to the fact that in our short history we have witnessed illegal, immoral and similar misconduct in almost every possible position and in every possible form. At the same time, we also know that, according to the results of both domestic and foreign surveys among the most honest of comparable countries, we are also better than some prominent members of the European Union. So there is no need for sudden, reckless or revolutionary solutions, nor do I think there is any excuse for our possible complete passivity. Some countries, such as Lithuania, Croatia, are dealing with corruption through the establishment of authorities with maximum police powers almost in a way close to emergency situations. Such solutions represent a grave mistrust of the regular detection and prosecution authorities, extend the repressive state apparatus and its powers to an uninterrupted extent. The possibility of judicial and parliamentary control over the work of these authorities is reduced to formalism at the time of their flood, the rights and freedoms of the individual remain at the back. I estimate that there is no reason in Slovenia to follow these trends. Our criminal legislation, by all criteria, is taking a step with that in the most developed countries of the European Union. The authorities of detection, persecution and trial, despite their desire to do better, still have confidence. Corruption is still not a daily way of life, despite the fact that it is undeniably much more than official data shows. There is no reason, I suppose, to interfere with extreme solutions, to drink and to refine those that have already been established with us. That is exactly what I think is the purpose of the law that we are starting today. With completed solutions in the field of conflict of interest prevention, through the prohibition of the pursuit of profitable activities, with appropriate sanctions for living and internationally comparable arrangements for the reception of gifts in the workplace and with a complete system for monitoring the property situation of state officials at all levels and all three branches of government, we will try to reduce opportunities for corruption to a minimum. Instead of being fragmented and amputated by various bodies, we are establishing a new body, an independent and professional state commission, which will only be in line with the one which such a body in modern society can meet: this is, for us, the members of the national assembly to the representatives of the legislative branch of power. In addition to this, the law brings something that Europe - the United States of America and Australia - does not already know - is the integrity plans that are compulsory in the public sector and recommended in the private sector, after which care will be taken about the ethical activities of employees in the first instance of their employers' tasks, only then the forced state apparatus. Personally, I think that we will be able to make the solutions - as we will design them - in the second reading, properly complemented by all the evidence accompanying the draft law submitted to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at first reading. Therefore, I think that this is a solid journey, so that we can cope with phenomena that we certainly do not want in our society. It therefore grieves me that, in fact, we who now have the law in the procedure do not accompany it with political unity, given the awareness that we must also inform our public that the law is now in such a state that we can complement it, correct it and send it on the road with a sign of the political unity of all of us in this House, representing citizens and citizens, that at least the politicians are prepared to face together in a uniform manner the phenomenon which can be a society such as the Slovenian youth society, pollute to such an extent that it will no longer be pleasing to people in such a country. This is how I personally ask my opposition colleagues, whose discussions I have closely monitored, to support the proposal of the law at first reading as a suitable basis for work in the context of the second reading, and thus to show unity in dealing with these phenomena. I respect all their comments dealing with the effectiveness of the work of the executive branch, but I am of the opinion that their comments concerning this law are not such that they could not be incorporated into the law itself at second reading. So I sincerely hope that with political unity and, of course, with respect to this law, we will lead the way. It is only in this way that we will invite people whom we estimate to help prevent such acts with their awareness to fight corruption together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much, colleague Krebs, for your performance. A colleague of mags. The little guy has a word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Let me begin by saying that I do not agree with this law. In fact, this law will further promote corruption. Why? Because it will reflect those necessary actions that the law enforcement authorities should carry out, on a commission that we have talked a lot about today - on a commission that does not have specific powers to prosecute crime. In countries where they have taken this issue seriously, they have given far greater powers to the competent authorities, the criminal police and the prosecution, trained them and teamed them well. What happened to us? Instead of strengthening that department to combat economic crime, it has happened that some of the most qualified officials have gone elsewhere - I hope not to go to the Anti-Corruption Office or whatever it is already called. It would be much better if, instead of the officials in the office represented by Mr Penko, we were to step into the criminal police department and start pursuing crime. I mentioned that in countries that are seriously involved in this, they have done so within the framework of regular law enforcement bodies. On the other hand, there are countries with widespread corruption. There is a moderate anarchy in this way, I say, and so it is in Slovenia. They shall establish offices or commissions without powers, knowledge and responsibilities. We're gonna have two paper tigers chewing on papers and taxpayers' money, too. Nothing else. This is not what taxpayers and citizens need. Even the work of the Anti-Corruption Office so far, what was its work? This was some theoretical general discussion about what corruption is. This is what they study in colleges, and the institutes are supposed to have debates, not in the Anti-Corruption Office. The phenomenon in Slovenia is that there is a positive correlation between the growth of corruption and the trust of the government, which is primarily responsible for preventing corruption. That's something else you should be dealing with. That's an interesting phenomenon. How do you understand that? The government does not want to complete this prevention department, especially economic crime and so on. That corruption is also there. Isn't there also some way to boycott regular work? Let me touch some more things in this law a little bit more. The first part - to paragraphs 24 - is empty. They mostly talk about how these committees are set up. However, in Article 29, free discretion is given to contracting entities. And that's what this committee is supposed to give, that is, a free mind. Who, then, will supervise the Commission for the integrity of public action? She will intervene in this, she will decide whether or not to act in the event of a conflict of interest. The only result will be that Slovenia can send a report to Brussels that we have a commission for the integrity of public action. That's very learned. And employees of 20 well-paid employees. It'll be just like the Equal Opportunities Act. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] As with this committee. [[...]] She hasn't done anything in two years, no report. Nobody did anything. And it's gonna be just like it was with Elan. When I send letters to the D.A. and she last lets me know she's not happy with the D.A.'s report. This is the answer to the National Assembly. Nothing's gonna get better. Not with this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Comrade Potts is missing, colleague Brenčič is not, colleague of Visions is not, colleague of Puck is not, and colleague of Podobnik is not. Does Comrade Zampernik want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The interest that was shown at least at the beginning in the adoption of this law has apparently been a little frightening, since it does not seem to be serious enough for colleagues who were ahead of me to discuss it. I, too, listened very carefully to my former colleague, Vice-President of the National Assembly, who somehow urged us in some way to have the opposition take a social approach to the adoption of this law and thereby limit corruption in the country. I would not want the public to have the impression that the opposition is now the one against curbing corruption. Surely - this has been said from the mouth of some of my opposition colleagues - we have proposed amendments or the adoption of such a law that would restrict corruption before. This has already been said when it is so late that this corruption is already harmful to even some who are in power, and we are trying to put out what else can be put out. For about seven years, I have been actively monitoring the adoption of laws in this National Assembly. I've never heard anyone take responsibility for the bad marriage we've adopted here. And there have been some such cases. But each time it was adopted by the proposer, it was mostly a government, it was said how European, how modern law we adopt. Let us remember the law on public procurement, which I think we will now fix for the third time or even the fourth time. Public procurement, where dizzying amounts revolve, can be a source of corruption. Remember the events at Dars where, despite the decisions taken on the Infrastructure Committee, where the entire team of this Commission is, both the position and the opposition, decided that Dars must prepare the data more precisely to see where the funds were spent. And so we're kind of winding everything up on some "other expenditure" item, which, of course, is impossible to figure out how much money has been poured into private pockets, which, of course, is happening in public, otherwise we probably wouldn't be talking about what we're talking about today. I listened attentively to Mrs Pavlinič Krebsovo when she said that it is only up to us, whether we will be the purpose for which I firmly believe that it is the same, so to speak, to limit corruption, or whether we will achieve that purpose. I agree that it is also up to us, but it is also up to all individuals to do something about it. I think it's a shame that Mrs Vice President isn't here, because I'd like to tell her that she also depends on that lawyer who comes to some prosecution and wants to do something, and she finds that the situation on this prosecution is so that it can't be contained there, and, I think, after a month, she's out of this prosecution. In the towers, that's what he's hoping to say, but we don't hope to say it out loud, in public. It's like we're turning everything into a cellophane, how everything is in the best order, how the police and the D.A. are, how they're working together, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how they're doing it, how And of course, the one who now calls for all of us or, above all, for what we will achieve by this law should really ask what I have done to end this way in our country. Look, one of the colleagues also mentioned that it wasn't just the one who took the bribe, but the one who gave it was guilty. I know a specific case that happened in August when police officers detained a person for suspicion of bribery. This person, this carrier, has been asked by a police company to finance this company. And then they're holding this person for bribery! The lawyer of this person who then called me and introduced me to this said that he asked these police officers if you had also detained the person who was suspected of receiving the bribe, and he got the answer from the police officer: "But even if I did, I wouldn't tell you." It was also said that you should be careful not to resent the doctor because you never know when you will be on his new operating table. Not that the doctor's the only one who doesn't mind, you can't blame a cop! He's gonna stop me on the road tomorrow, and I can't blame him either. I can't blame myself, I don't know, Minister of Justice. I can't blame the judge because I'll be in front of him tomorrow. And now that I can't blame anyone, I have to be pretty quiet. They say, now I remember Croatian, I think, whether winged from the former brother republics, who says, "He who lies also steals, he who steals, but he who steals with it should be nice," because otherwise he can destroy you with capital. Look what's happening to people who were hoping to tell you what's wrong in the country. Two days ago, I saw a judgment on behalf of the people of my former fellow Member, Iv Hvalica, which warned of corruption and irregularities years ago. What happened to those people, I can say, but now that I won't be civilly sued tomorrow, where there was a very reasonable suspicion that something was wrong, nothing happened to them, here my colleague Jerovšek shows me this. However, Ambassador Ivo Hvalica must pay large amounts of late interest, if he is one day late, to pay $250,000 a day for late payment of $250,000. We fight corruption very well, very well. For the words spoken here for a pay phone, 250 thousand tolars of daily pens, those who put things so "left hand, right pocket" or as they say, nothing happens there. As I have said before, it would not be a mistake to understand that the opposition is against the adoption of a law that would restrict corruption, but the path seems to be wrong if we adopt a law and then nothing happens again. Just as we have accepted the Izacons that I mentioned before, but nothing has happened, I am afraid that it will happen now, and of course now I am returning the appeal that has been given us, that once we have, I can say, when we adopt the law, something will actually be done in this area. Not to be as he said, I now remembered a visit to a committee chaired by my fellow Member Jerovšek, but I think at the beginning of this term there was an FBI representative, and I think he was, who said, "I was in one of the European countries, but I will not say which, I think, is the capital of Madrid, where I was told, we collected a bunch of data, we have a lot of data on the table, what's wrong, and we haven't put anyone behind bars." This case really reminds me of what we're doing here. Of course, I have in mind the Mira Petk case, where the prosecution in Slovenj Gradc collected mountains of data. They really worked, I can't say they didn't bother, but there was no effect until the case went to Maribor. And we say, "It's all O." K. Yeah, it's not! And if we do not hope to do so or know it, each individual will admit it, then nothing will happen if we adopt ten more anticorruption laws. As I said, I return an appeal, my own responsibility to every individual, even if he is in a position to cut off those fears that we mentioned earlier, to whom everything should not be offended, and to tell if he sees and feels perhaps even on his own skin that something is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Comrade Zampernik. Our colleague Majda Shirca has the floor for her, Comrade Kelemina. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Some duality is evident in some of the data that is presented and presented in the proposal and in part from today's debate. I'm on my own in statistics. We are constantly faced with the feeling that this is no longer an honest citizen in Slovenia, but at the same time the data brings us an extremely small number of corruptions that have been shown or reported. Like 51 in 2002, 43 in 2000 etc. And yet another piece of information, criminal acts that range from 77,000 to more. The second duality that we have been alerting or alerted to today is also the fact that relatively small percentages of these reported or processed cases are also investigated, on average 50% not even 47%. This very data and today's discussion proves that I am not talking about the general impression that exists in the public and is talking about the great doubts about the integrity of the Slovenian people. It is important to attract all those who support ways and solutions in eliminating, resolving and clearing up such corruption and other actions, actions arising from conflict of interest and, as a result, to say, questionable ethical restraint. I think it's a key problem, which I've also noticed by many -- within the debate -- that it's a dilemma, it's precisely how the law regulates something that has the foundations of ethics, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u66	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u67	which has a basis in morality and is ultimately in some general awareness of an individual or society at all. [[..]] How to regulate something that has certain consequences, not only on an economic level, but also on a political, social and psychological basis. I think that's a fundamental question. Unfortunately, today, many people have expressed doubts about the effects that the proposed text may or may not bring. Certainly, marriage regulation is one side, and it is not necessarily a salvation, but the applicants themselves know that it is not the only one, and we ourselves know that it is not the only one. But I think we are the last ones who can question the norms or the normative regulation of such issues.So let me stress that preventing illegal, unethical acts is not only a matter of this law, but also of other normative regulations, after all also of the codes that limit cross-interests, prevent the intrusion of private interest into public goods and the like. Indirect measures may vary. For example, neither does the law on access to public information seem to me to be such a measure that we should not overlook or recall today as one of the possible. The transparency of the public publication, including the forms that the public authorities and society generally make clear to the decision-makers, the Commissions, rejected requests, those which have been accepted. A different and more constructive atmosphere, I remember, was created when we once published a book in the government every year, I'm talking about a certain branch of the government within the culture, where it was clearly written, and this individual came forward with a desire, with so much participation of the state, he got so, he didn't get why he didn't get it, but it was decided by those and then signed by the government or the minister. I mean, there's a lot of these. Sometimes I even think that stretching or accelerating or supplementing existing ones would be beneficial. That's how I think you'd be, even a useful lobbying law if you had it here on the table. However, I agree that the prevention of favouritism must be created with a positive atmosphere. I agree with the speakers who spoke about this, because I know that, at psychological level, corruption promotes distrust in political and social institutions, but not only in public, state, political, but also in economics. Today, this mistrust is stronger every day. Sometimes we do it, or we receive it, and we hear it. This mistrustful blurry glances, not just to the public, but sometimes it blurs them out on our own. For example, yesterday in this room it was said when a certain law was drawn up, it was immediately given the sublime that someone who wants to regulate the law, I am talking about the park law, he has certain interests, and very taxive has spoken here something that no one can really prove, and unfortunately cannot be judged because of the context in which we are. Things are being challenged within criminal proceedings. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I do not deny that there is always a right to public speaking or to raise this issue. [[...]] But at the same time, let me just say that it's a field that's become public and it's right that it's being articulated and, of course, I'm not going to continue. I will only stress so much that the proposal in this sense needs to continue to have positive effects forward and challenge all that sometimes comes with great and excessive mistrust.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Shirtz. My friend Kelemin now has the floor. Please. My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, let me put forward a protest because the beginning of preventing corruption is already in the national assembly as the legislative branches of government, because in such an important debate you have limited the debate of Members to the minimum that we have the right to do here and that already contributes to the fact that we cannot speak openly at some point in time. This is absurd and this is the beginning of corruption here. So I'm protesting time limitation, and everyone won't be able to make the turn they signed up for today. Otherwise, I sincerely thank the proposer of this bill. In fact, at the time of my two-hour reading, as much as I took for this marriage, I have to admit that I sincerely laughed. I just need to make sure that this is all one big laugh. The fundamental issue that we have to resolve in this country is who will take care of an effective anti-corruption system in Slovenia. Who? Certainly not the existing administrative structure. I guess you don't think so. Only if you look at how the existing government structure came into power can you see that probably with corruption, with media corruption. One of these things is today's article against me, where there's a lot of lies in there. With lies, how different! And also by promoting and allowing corruption. That's what the existing government has allowed. That's obvious. Of course, corruption is present in the executive branch, where billions are flowing, in the judiciary, too, of course, in the regular courts, and also, see, corruption is certainly in the presence of offenders. A common citizen, if he commits any offence and there is a risk of punishment, the highest, say, 50 thousand, will be recovered within one month. The guilty judge will recover this. Where there are 10 to 20 million tolars at risk where legal persons are unlawfully raping the Slovenian population, nothing happens for six months, and the judge for offences does not act or imposes penalties. And, of course, he's waiting for the hands of obsolescence to be discarded. You see the elements of corruption! And someone's wondering why millions of misdemeanors don't recover. And how many of these crimes were unrecoverable! Nobody wonders because nobody cares, because you control yourself and you give yourself money from one pocket to another, completely understandable. That corruption is also in the National Assembly, but it is also evident. Just look at the example that I won't go far back in changing the gambling law, where you suggest that foreign capital could come into our casinos. Please, what do we need foreign capital in our casinos? This is such an interesting activity that domestic investors are sufficient, just let them come along. No, this proposal has now been made so that foreign capital, which has been stolen from Slovenia and taken abroad, can now come back. This is the essence of this law, and no one mentions it here because it is not necessary because the National Assembly has obviously fallen under some pressure of any kind of corruption of this or that. In short, corruption is actually too much in the National Assembly. And who's gonna find her? President of the National Assembly? Opposition, or who? No one can prove it, no one, and never will, I'm sure. Those who are closer to governmental and parastatal structures, today you speak with patience, calm, temperate - pure folklore! What a ridiculous folklore this is, please! I'm enjoying it, really. If you really want an effective system, then this system should run, if not the opposition, because no one in this country likes at least the chosen people of civil society, their representatives. Only ten of them could have to be professionally employed, and now you will spend 200, 300, 500 million on new additional resources for this system and employ a whole range of people will not happen. There's only a few that need to be done, and the matter will be resolved. Members, I think, at least the opposition should contribute to limiting or preventing corruption in Slovenia. However, you have destroyed this institution of MPs as a fighter for legality, for justice and so on. You've restricted your freedom of speech, that's the first. You persecute Members at all levels, you don't recognize their immunity, and you're fighting for Members to have immunity. [[several cases have already been reported]] . In short, I can personally tell anyone anything in this country, because I am an existing authority, a para-state authority, and no one can punish me because I have no butter on my head, not even a little bit! If I had one, I'd be locked up a long time ago. But I don't have it - I don't have it! Can you imagine? Can you imagine the irony? And this power and the parastatal institutions have actually excluded me from everything, from the flow of information and so on. Moreover, as a representative of the people, I was prevented from speaking freely. I can't even do that. It's our democracy. Thank you! All normal people in our country, I think they know what corruption is, all normal people. If we're dealing with abnormals, that's another thing, obviously we do. You can tell exactly who's rich. You can see exactly how this wealth came to be, but no one is interested. I'm asking you nicely. Why? You'll be hunting yourself. No, no, no. This proposal is absolutely out of line. It would only be enough to make it known that corruption is a crime, that it is a threat to punishment. Failure to commit a crime is, however, a re-penalty of one who has not committed the offence and also a disciplinary measure. This would have to be done, and absolutely nothing else. But who's going to replace themselves, please?Oh, my God! That's what we talked about today. It doesn't make sense. Well, we have in the National Assembly quite a few people who might be able to solve these things in a very simple way. For example, Mr Vukko says that there is not enough corruption in Slovenia and that there is no need to hunt witches. Okay, that's a very good point. But Mr. Kremjar would probably sweep his left hand with this. As an agent, he always says that we have the appropriate institutions, the appropriate authorities, and that everything is arranged to take care of everything, they are paid for it and let them do it. What am I supposed to say in the end? Maybe it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's...
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u70	Comrade Petan now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I myself am one of those who represent the view that the law itself does not bring anything, must be incorporated into the right environment, into the right land, that it can then excite and that moving institutions from one hen to another will bring nothing and establishing offices that are essentially of the greatest importance in that they are statistical, that they collect statistics and that they are analytically monitoring matters will not produce any good results. Since my colleagues have said a lot, I will not deal alone with these big problems that point to corruption, but I will draw attention to a small problem worth only a few billion. We may have forgotten about him, for it is a problem of stickers or otherwise, a problem of a marketing authorisation. Slovenia has had this relatively good or rather well managed and the European Union has not demanded that we change this system, which works well. More importantly, it's effective, and it was ours. However, someone was being moved by the money that was now collected by the state and was also part of the state budget. And we've had stickers, directly through the Ministry of the Interior. We got stickers and still an old existing charter that previously saved everything. We had to pay 1,400 SIT for professional bonding. What it looked like, that's second, what it looked like to be a professional detour of a sticker, which, if anything, we had to bring in when we checked out the vehicle. Sometimes it was easier to bring the whole pole or what was left of the car, than that sticker to the clerk so that you could check out the vehicle. Why was this modest example needed on the altar of Slovenian possible corruption? Since the state Treasury lost about 8 billion tolars in such or other form by modifying the organisation of this document, and this money, which had previously run into the state budget, has been directed elsewhere towards some companies that are "ours", of course, in a narrative. That's essentially what the state did. It is said that the state itself has made a mess and has diverted the money from its budget somewhere else. And the country is through administrative units, where the system of issuing transport cards has been leaked, there have also been employees who have lost their jobs, without these revenues into the state budget, and people have remained. Now the state is still paying these people because it just didn't send them on the road. Now I wonder, of course, whether or not this is a typical example of allowing, I am not saying that this can happen, but allowing for possible corruption. Maybe you could say it's a nice case of a stupid country. Today, after two years of finding that this system is not good, that it is not effective, that it does not solve the problem, that it is complicated, that citizens have more and more problems without ending this issue, but we are talking about another label that might solve everything. This is total nonsense. The problem I would like to point out is that the state itself has given up money, has given it to someone else and, of course, has changed the whole system, and is still paying the employees who have done it before. Well, that's a lot of nonsense. That's, like I said, a weapon on the altar of a stupid country. Maybe it's for the end, because there's another bunch of colleagues who would like to discuss it and there's no more time. This change will certainly not bring about anything, such as is provided for in this law, where corruption can in fact be recorded, and this can only be good will, move organs and people from one institution to another, and there will be no results. Now I might ask the question: What have they done to the police, who are still an organ in this ministry, who has proposed this nonsense and has also done what the office in its current form has done, and what can it do in a new form, if otherwise organized, if it is organized, has a few other people in it to detect such foolishness as I have predicted? However, since my time is running out, I have another 20 seconds, and allow me to protest again on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because the conclusion of the College is a limited time to discuss, you can see that there are still a few more reported from our parliamentary group, and those who debated would like to say more, I think that this is not a good thing, especially in this point, when we are discussing such devaluations that occur in our society, such as the problem of corruption, and I think that the second time we need to think about it and not be afraid to look in the mirror, what our image is. To cover up the mirror for this reason, it is not good to shorten the discussion, which is not good. And once again I protest on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u72	Let me explain first because I have a duty to do this. If it were my responsibility to determine how much time we would discuss and to believe that it would be possible to prevent corruption for a long time, then I would give three days to discuss it. Since this is not my responsibility, but rather is clearly limited by the rules of procedure, I am obliged to take it into account - Article 67, third paragraph, very clearly commands the rules. That was also explained to the college. These rules apply both to you and to everyone else. If there is time at the end, I will allow this time until the expected expiry of the debate to be spent on the continuation of the debate. Comrade Tuck, you want a word? Please. Just a moment, because I don't have a screen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u73	I'm afraid I don't have time, I just want to say that, Mr President. You didn't exactly comment on the rules of procedure. The business provision states that there is a minimum time that the college can no longer squander. You've reduced us from 115 to 65 minutes, you can't give us less because the rules of procedure still provide us at least 65 minutes in the entire debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u74	However, I let you say this, even to inform colleagues and colleagues that on the basis of a rather controversial debate at the college - whether you or others who objected to your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure - I have decided and already sent to the business committee my request to indicate clearly whether you or others have the right to interpret this Rules of Procedure. So that when the business commission decides on this issue, it will not be any more. Now I think we can give the floor to Mr. Penk. Mr Penko, as a government representative, will answer questions, comment on what I think. It has 10 minutes, and if there is any interest in the debate, and if there is time, you will also get a word in the parliamentary groups. First of all, Mr. Penko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! A number of opinions, critical comments, comments on the proposed law were expressed. I will try to answer as many comments and questions as possible. In doing so, I apologize to those who will not be answered, and I will try to select questions on those directly related to the law and on those others that are likely to be discussed on a second occasion. First of all, it's about the concept of the law itself. Of course, any marriage proposal must be based on some pre-democratic discourse and on some genuine will of most of those who are concerned by the law or who are engaged in it. In this case, we have actually tried everything to find out what Slovenia needs in the fight against corruption and what it is that we can do in these contexts. This discourse, which did not take place and not only ran in the government, but also wider, all those who wanted to participate or could have been activated. Thus, the general public, which has been, I can admit, quite uninterested as well as civil society, which is practically absent in this area, as well as representatives of educational institutions, universities and so on, who first requested a fee for any opinion, not to mention. So all those whom we considered and who could contribute in any way to the improvement of the substance of this law were invited to debate and had the opportunity. In the end, we're actually, I'm going to say, more or less lonely when we went on with this project. But in the widest possible way, we have tried to find out what Slovenia needs in this area. And what we have found is that there is no consensus in the direction that we need some pressure that will bring some institution that is similar to the institutions that have been established by countries that have found that they are all corrupt, that everything is wrong, that the police are ineffective and corrupt, that the prosecution is not doing its job, that the supervisory institutions are not doing their job, that the elite authorities are closed, and that it is impossible to control power, etc. Therefore, these findings did not form and crystallize in this discourse in such a way as to give the applicant the opportunity to draw up such a law, of course, which would then violate the principles of the division of power, violate the principles of the delimitation of powers, etc., and actually form a strike fist that would strike with all means after corruption. It was clearly established, and it was also professionally clear that we have all these competent institutions in Slovenia, and that we have a satisfactory legal basis, and that more or less the problem of the inaction or inefficiency of these institutions is the uncoordinated nature of their work in relation to the human factor of the actors led by these institutions and those working in these institutions. It turns out that when someone who wants to work comes to the top of the institution, there are immediate visible measures. It is also evident in the public that this institution has powers and that this institution can work. It is therefore pointless and dangerous to create a new such institution to fight corruption, to fight corruption crimes. Corruption is a much broader problem than crimes. Of course, we are also fully aware of this. We have estimated that the large deficit, in addition to the inefficiency of institutions and the inefficiency of controls, is also in the field of ethics and integrity. That is why we have intervened in this area with the proposed regulation. I estimate that a large, extremely large step forward has been taken with this, and by this I am giving all recognition to the government that it has allowed the Anti-Corruption Office, which has always been very loud and very critical to the government, this will probably not be denied by anyone to exclude and become an independent institution that can also oversee the government itself. So an institution which will, in principle, respond to the National Assembly, which will be, at least in the sense of the functionaries who lead, also formed, consolidated, and which will have all the powers that the Office now has, by means of an impartial, independent autonomous position that will allow for any necessary criticism, need to intervene in accordance with this new proposal of the law. It is important to know that the law will be followed by a resolution on the national programme or on the origins of the fight against corruption, which will be very detailed and which is inseparably linked to the law itself. This future independent institution, which is irrelevant, will have the task of ensuring the implementation of this resolution. As you have seen in the starting points, which are now annexed to the explanations of the law, this resolution intervenes in all areas - civil society, state institutions, legislative measures, practices, cooperation and so on - so practically everything that must be combined into an anti-corruption initiative. And the important mandate and task of this future institution is to take care of the implementation of this strategy. In the two new important areas that we have already mentioned - now I cannot in detail - I assure you that we have made every effort to build the most consistent and effective system of control over the property situation of all government officials with material provisions that are subject to this control. Of course, there's probably something else that can be fixed with the amendments. I also assure you that the integrity plans, which are also one of the essential parts of the law, are a project that we are already implementing in the form of pilot projects in some institutions, which have therefore expressed readiness and desire. This is a project that can in fact lead to a significant improvement in the situation in institutions in the long term, which does not even know where corruption-exposed cities occur. This is actually about self-examination. As you can see from the marriage, the commission advises on this. Otherwise, the law requires the institutions of the state administration and the authorities of the local government to have such plans, but nevertheless it is essentially a matter of self-initiative action within the institution itself, which can mean a substantial improvement in what the institution gives out. This is exactly the project we were working with the Scandinavians, whom some of you referred to. Integrity is in their home, it's practically their concept, they've actually brought it into this European space. They also helped us to understand and formulate this part of the law. So it's actually a set of measures, a set of ways and methods to work to address the causes of corruption. However, we have never claimed that this law would interfere with the better treatment of crimes in order to achieve greater efficiency of the police, the prosecution and so on; there are, of course, other rules and other measures that must ensure that the work will also be better. And in that I fully agree with you. I would also like to ensure that we who work at the office do not, in fact, have any pretensions. Even if we do, they are legitimate in terms of working in this future institution. The procedure is open, everyone will be able to run for office as a member of this commission, president, deputy. The National Assembly will be the one to confirm this candidacy or not to confirm it. Applicants are also different. All that concerns us is that - because our body is being abolished and because the new body represents continuity to the old body - we become public servants with this future envisaged institution. This is all the privilege we have, which I don't think is any privilege, because otherwise we would be working elsewhere in the government if this institution were to be abolished. It is also worth saying about rationalisation at this point. The government is currently abolishing five offices by law. For this office, however, we have in some way established, through the debate, that it should not be abolished, but that it should be made an independent institution, just for the reasons that I have listed. For the first time, this independent institution will take over all the employees of the current office. It is true that it will need some new workers, but it will replace all the many administrations that should, in other words, be set up and set up to control the assets of officials across individual branches of government, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by individual institutions at the level of local self-government and so on. [[...]] Well. This is actually about saving, not losing. However, with regard to the savings that I expect the institution to achieve with its effective work, they are virtually immeasurable. We know how much, or we can think of how much, corruption costs Slovenia. The law advocates that these costs of corruption reduce the work of a future institution to a minimum. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A lot of open questions are still that I probably don't have time to talk about right now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u76	There's three minutes left. Mr Penko, since none of those who still have time are of any interest, I will give you a colleague likeness. [[...]] Please, Comrade Sok, I don't know if time allows you to do this? Procedural proposal. Please, if you can finish your show in one minute, Mr. Penko. Comrade Podobnik will be given a minute. Then I'll give you my word. Please, Mr. Penko, if you'd like to complete another important thought before the end. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you for the opportunity. I would like to draw attention to the area of gifts that have been exposed today. The bill refers to ordinary and protocol gifts. This shall be deemed to be lawful under law only if it is not in connection with the performance of any official function. If there is such a minimal gift, a gift without knowledge given to the official to perform or not to perform an official act, then it is a crime. That's very clear! A criminal act or taking bribes. This is about something else. With regard to gifts, the law governs the giving of gifts without any corrupt intent or motive. I don't think it makes any sense for me to keep going into trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u78	It's a general treat. The law will be before the National Assembly. There will be opportunities for discussion, both here and on the competent working body. Comrade Squirrel, did you want a minute? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you, President. There's the problem with our rules of procedure. Because it is the reply of a government representative to some questions that is likely to be the key to how the national assembly then decides when it votes. I thank the Director for some of the answers he has given and I also accept them. But he didn't answer me - one of the key questions. Is the issue of incompatibility and interference with Parliament also conceptually involved in this law? I'd like to hear that from you, but you obviously don't have any more time. However, it would be very important to comment on your point that representatives of civil society, which is not so said to be present, did not participate in this discussion in the drafting of this law, but others did. Can you tell me now - I don't know when - whether these meetings have been formalised as preparations for this law? How did you invite her? Who did you invite? This is a very important question. I would be very careful to state that civil society has completely disappeared here and that they are not. Why aren't they here? That your invitation was not the best, because the office is directly responsible to the Prime Minister. Here's the question. Is it good that the idea of such a law comes from the executive branch of power? Not just that. The Director of the Office, who is directly responsible to the Prime Minister, is one who is most likely not fully trusted by civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. You wanted a word on a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u81	I propose that, in view of the increased number of panellists reported in accordance with Article 67, you extend the debate at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u82	I propose the next solution. Now, as is right, we would continue with the agenda. However, if the National Assembly believes that it is necessary to extend it by one hour in the afternoon before the vote, we will make this proposal. No, we have no votes in the debate. That, Comrade Sok, who is a very attentive Member and you are always here, you know. I say that if, prior to today's decision, the Group of Members still believes that an hour should be extended, if I do not lead the vote, I will suggest to the Vice-President that it should be put to the vote and that there will be another hour of opportunity for an extension. Here, however, is now the presence of all the others who want and are ready to continue the course of the national assembly. Just as planned. All right, then today I'm going to take this proposal of yours, Comrade Sok. If I don't run the vote myself, I'll pass it on to Madam Vice-President. The National Assembly will then put your proposal to the vote. This, however, is the right of the President to decide whether it takes another hour for him to be able to reach a final decision. I think that's the right thing to do. Now we're going to move on to the next 17. POINT OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE OF PARAGRAPH 83. ARTICLE OF THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT LAW RELATING TO OTHER AND THIRD PARAGRAPH 103. Member of the Law of Administration. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 83 of the Law on State Administration relating to the second and third paragraphs of Article 103 of the Law on Administration was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I believe that the Secretary of State, Dr Virant, will want to explain the proposal further. He's got five minutes to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From 1.1.1995 he established administrative units and transferred the powers of municipal administrative authorities to administrative units. The logic of the delegation of power was also followed by the logic of the transfer of the right to use the premises and equipment by which these tasks were carried out. The Administration Act provides in Article 103 that administrative units shall carry out work at premises and through funds used previously by municipal administrative authorities for the areas of those administrative tasks carried over from 1.1. This has created some kind of public law restriction on the property rights of the municipality with the right of use by the State. In particular, administrative units against the payment of a proportional part of maintenance and operation costs. The new State Administration Act, which was adopted last June, also raised the issue of ownership and use of administrative units. At that time, we also considered the choice of ownership or transfer of property, co-ownership of an ideal share in the country, which would certainly be a legal solution. However, in the discussions, in particular in coordination with local community associations, this solution would have proved unacceptable for the municipalities. In such a way that the State Administration Act did not include this solution. The Law on State Administration on this issue is silent. Because Article 103 of 1.1.1995 has been consumed. That's when it came to pre-social property ownership. Therefore, the establishment of the municipality's ownership right, while at the same time restricting the right of use in favour of the administrative unit against the payment of a proportional part of the operating and maintenance costs. Following the adoption of the Law on State Administration, there were some explanations that the State no longer has a basis for the use of these premises. Some municipalities have tried - I can say - to blackmail by offering the conclusion of a lease, i.e. classic civil-law leases. We have therefore decided to draw up an authentic interpretation that would dispel doubts that would make it clear that the repeal of Article 103 of the Law on Administration does not also mean that the relationship created by this provision of Article 103 will change or end. Any other interpretation would be incorrect and also harmful because it would jeopardise the exercise of national functions at local level. Once again, there was also an option - and the country would have the right to do so - an option of ownership, transfer of property or at least an ideal share in premises from municipalities to the country. That's it! The Law Service has given its position, which is, however, rejected until the authentic interpretation. But not because I would disagree with that explanation. But on the contrary, in her view, this explanation is completely clear and therefore unnecessary. Rather, the provisions are clear and do not need further interpretation. In view of the knowledge of practice, however, we feel that due to legal certainty and to the avoidance of unnecessary disputes and excuses, it is still better to accept this authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The proposal for an interpretation was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body. I would like a member of Mr Miran's committee to run for the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Internal Policy Committee shall propose to the Sorghum Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 83(1) of the Law on State Administration in relation to Article 103, paragraph 2, and Article 103, paragraph 3, of the Law on Administration shall not be adopted. We note that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, which formally contains all the required ingredients in Article 149(2) of the Rules of Procedure, has been made on the grounds that there has been an interpretation by individual municipalities that the new Law on State Administration has entered into force in July 2002 and has repealed the Law on Administration by not providing provisions on the relations between the municipality and the State with regard to the premises and assets contained in Article 103 of the repealed Law on Administration - has intervened in this relationship in such a way that they now need to be re-ordered, but in accordance with the law governing civil-legal rental relations, not by the provisions laid down in the Law on Administration. The Secretary of State also spoke about this. The mother’s working body addressed these issues. It followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the new Law on State Administration did not affect the issue of material assets, including premises, nor did it destroy the application of this regulation in the repealed Law on Administration. The new Law on State Administration, by repealing the previously applicable Law on Administration, has not abolished or amended the regulation, since it should, in other words, explicitly contain it because it concerns property matters. Therefore, the premises and assets concerned are subject to such property relations, including the legal rights which impose this property, as established under Article 103 of the Administration Act. This provision has regulated ownership. In order to further address this issue, it is not necessary to re-examine this issue, nor should this fact, which follows from the law itself, be reconfirmed by a mandatory interpretation. The opinion of the parent working body is that the law governing the material relations between the new owners and the administrative authorities is valid. That contracts concluded on this basis also apply, that there is no need to re-regulation and that the adoption of a compulsory interpretation in such a case would be contrary to the principles applicable otherwise to the content of the compulsory interpretation. It is therefore not a vague provision that should be reexplanated. It seems to us that all these issues should be highlighted clearly and unequivocally in the home working body. In order to remove any doubts as to the possibility of requiring a new regulation of ownership relations. The ownership relations are regulated and must run under contracts concluded under the repealed Article 103 of the Law on Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Ms Majda Zupan, Nova Slovenija, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. In some ways, I understand the mayor's demands for rent contracts to be settled by the State to the municipalities of the premises in which state officials operate in administrative units. In 1995, when administrative units began to operate, they actually began to operate very quietly and without a specific pump, as is usually the case in such cases. So that we can observe today that citizens and citizens simply do not separate between the municipality and the administrative unit. We hear many times: they say, we go to the congregation, even though they go to the administrative unit. From this point of view, I think it's the quiet one and, I don't know, I'd say, it's not exactly the way we're used to it. Quiet transfer, quiet division between the congregation and the country. From that point of view, it was not the best. It seems to me that, because of citizens' information, this line should be, this action, much more explicitly, to make it easier in the ears of citizens and citizens. We agree that in 1995, when administrative units began to operate, spatial issues were settled by retaining ownership rights of the municipalities and by obtaining the right to use administrative units by participating in the sharing of maintenance and operation costs. In 2002, after we passed the State Administration Act, there is probably something that could be done about it. However, the solution was adopted to let the existing situation remain the way it was, without prejudice to property relations. In view of all this, in our Group of Members, we believe that we must take into account the real-law relations as established since 1.1.1995 and that they do not change as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Franci Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! The 1994 Administration Act redefines the territorial organisation of the administration, namely the acquisition of the social property in which they were granted the right to use the former municipality, in Article 104. So the facilities and funds became the property of the newly formed congregations. However, it restricted their right of ownership by the right to use both premises and facilities to perform tasks entrusted to administrative units. However, for the use of premises in which administrative units operate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was obliged under the law to ensure that a proportionate part of the costs for operation and maintenance were reimbursed. The newly formed congregations, however, resisted such a legal solution to the spatial problem by refusing to conclude the corresponding contracts. A constitutional dispute was also brought before the Constitutional Court because of the view that the legal provision of Article 103 is contrary to the Constitution, which the Constitutional Court has not established. In the light of the provisions set out in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the arrangements for the use of the premises for the work of administrative units in force under the Administration Act deviate from the established means of transferring assets to newly created entities, but that the legal standard is clear and does not require further justification in this part. Therefore, we will not support this authentic interpretation in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So, as we have heard, this matter has its roots since the end of 1994, in early 1995 with reform of the state administration and also local with the formation of administrative units, which then took over the functions of the state, which until then were performed by the municipalities. The functioning of the State within the administrative units remained in the same premises. These were by most national ownership and also by the same people. For compensation, no funds shall be received for the use of these premises of the municipality. Except maybe some exceptions. But that's not a rule. The State shall only participate in the maintenance costs through the relevant Secretariat Ministry, together with the municipalities. Of course, such a system is not easy. It is difficult to agree between the two partners when the municipality has funds in the budget for maintenance. That's probably when the state doesn't have it. At least that's how it turned out and vice versa. On the other hand, the municipality which owns these premises must request the maintenance of the premises in which the other authority representing the State is located. There are a lot of problems in the congregations that are being solved as well as anyone knows and knows. Just like the mayor finds himself. That's why there's a lot of problems. On the other hand, it must be recognised that the services that work within the legal units are the services of citizens for individual functions of the State. These services are needed by citizens. It is also important to bear in mind that these functions are for the benefit of the citizens, not the other way around, which is being replaced in our time. Therefore, the decision of the Internal Policy Committee is to some extent understandable. The conclusion of individual contracts for each municipality would be very complicated, long-term and late, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we understand the problems we have in the municipalities where the administrative units are established. That is why we will make an interesting decision, especially since the congregations have problems in this regard. A country that should be more flexible in terms of assistance, maintenance and possible allocation of funds for the maintenance of these buildings is a little more flexible and is thus easily giving up billions of funds. I will mention only 100 billion outstanding debts through the tax office - so that it does not go away - and perhaps remind someone of the debate that was held at the previous point, where the country is easily giving up hundreds of billions. Here, however, it is very difficult for congregations to come to a full range of excusable resources. It would probably be appropriate for a State to grant a small fraction of these funds, which it does not recover, to the municipalities. A few billion. You probably wouldn't know each other. Then it would have to change your mind. Therefore, we do not have a unified opinion in the Group of Members. We will vote quite interestingly in view of the difficulties our colleagues face in the area they are covering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposal of the Internal Policy Committee that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 83 of the Law on State Administration in relation to Article 103, paragraph 2, and Article 103, paragraph 3, of the Law on Administration shall not be adopted. This does not mean that we do not fully support the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue, which is evident from the explanation proposed when the proposal for an authentic interpretation is adopted. We will not support the proposal for the following reasons. The Institute of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is intended solely to interpret a vague legal provision. Article 103 of the Law on Administration, not only was it only clear 1.1.1995, it was also a constitutional review in 1997. Not only was he clear, but he was also a logical consequence of one fact. That is, that the former municipalities were amphibians, that they carried out the tasks of today's local communities and the tasks of the state of administration. It was right and rational - as a fellow Member had previously found - that all of this is a service for citizens, that relations have been arranged in such a way. In particular, these premises were left for use by administrative units against the payment of a proportional part of the maintenance and operation costs. In this part, we follow such an explanation because the legal provision was clear. Individual informal interpretations of individual municipalities, clear legal provisions that are contrary to purpose and purpose. But these can't be the basis for accepting an authentic explanation. Second reason: the law for which the authentic interpretation of the proposal is made no longer applies. As has already been made clear today, these legal provisions have long been exhausted, given the fact that they were in previous provisions. In other words, the parliamentary group fully agrees with the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which considers that the regulation, as regards the use of premises for the work of administrative units, has enforced the law on administration, otherwise derogates from the established means of transferring assets to newly created entities. However, the legal standard is clear. In this part, there is no need for further explanation and, therefore, such property relationships do not apply to such premises, including the legal rights which impose this property, as established under Article 103 of the Administration Act. This provision has regulated ownership. In order to further address this issue, it is not necessary to deal with it again, since, as I have already said before, these provisions have translated into the real fact of ownership with the content as prescribed. The ownership right of the municipality was thus established and remains, however necessary, limited in accordance with the provisions of Article 103 of the Law on State Administration only if and as long as these premises and funds are used by administrative units. In the event of a dispute - for which we sincerely hope that even today's debate would no longer lead to a dispute between the State and the municipalities - the State may challenge its legitimate right of use before the courts and, on the other hand, the amount of the State's obligations under that provision fall also. Once again, we support the Committee's proposal and the interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue in the parliamentary group for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is given by Franz Chebulj of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In accordance with the authentic interpretation of the position of the Internal Policy Committee, I will also support the matter. But I am not of the opinion that this solves the issue of local offices. As is known, at the Ministry of the Interior a regulation is being drawn up on the evaluation of local offices which are within the competence of the administrative unit, in short, a state which does not give any advantage to keep local offices in remote municipalities. In short, in municipalities that are 10 kilometers away from the administrative unit itself, over 15 kilometers are followed by an evaluation of the presence or work of the local office itself. Unfortunately, I left this rule to the congregation today, because I am also on this issue - I want to ask the Secretary of State, in view of the sneezing of the Secretary of State, that it is not so - yesterday also asked Secretary of State Prašnikareva because she is responsible for this area of local communities. In fact, she said that they were in harmony with the congregation association, the small ones. So our congregation is not involved, and that is why I did not see it. But now I'm asking the following question - so that you don't confuse this story with what we were talking about. I ask the following questions, namely, where I was also elected as a Member. The Municipality of Jezersko, which has 600 inhabitants. Shenchure Municipality, which is less than 10 kilometers away. But I know it's a pretty good visit at the local office and again, it's out of this rule. In particular, I hope to leave our congregation with this. The book itself makes it clear that the congregation is obliged to pay back or cover all costs by means of a decision of the congregation council. From this point of view, I would remind the Secretary of State and the Ministry of the Interior that this is not in accordance with this authentic interpretation in accordance with the functioning of the local offices. We have now only solved the issue of administrative units, but we have not solved the issue of local offices in rural areas or in smaller municipalities. For example, do you know where Saint Leonard is in our congregation? An anchor that is essentially on the stone side, which actually has 20 kilometers of the finishing office in the center of Cerkelj? And that these are people who do not face our laws daily, with rules and so on, and that, finally, in these offices, are employed people who can also explain and serve these people. In any case, this person is heavily burdened with work. However, according to the information you will simply request from the Ministry of the Interior or the administrative unit, how much this local office is actually burdened, it will be clear that this person cannot spend eight hours working at this local office. Well, that's the system you prepared. Unfortunately, I don't have it with me because I could explain more clearly what it says in this rule. Thank you very much. I just wish you could answer that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much. There's no Kangler. Mr. Rokavec. Right? Good. Yes, and then the government's response. Please, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u97	Yeah. Well, this topic of local offices, I don't think it's directly related to the authentic explanation. But I'm going to give you an answer so that it doesn't go unnoticed. It is true that the criteria and content of the local offices are within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior and that this issue will be regulated by a regulation, but with a quite different content as you know it. In fact, we've been preparing this rule for quite some time. Because there is a dilemma to be resolved. The rational organisation of administrative units should be considered or, on the one hand, balanced and, on the other hand, the need to bring services closer to users. Or if I simplify, we want people to be as close to service as possible and, on the other hand, we cannot agree to this in a given budgetary situation, so that people in local offices sit without work. Well, the final solution to be adopted in the rules is very flexible. For the first time, it no longer defines any fixed kilometre conditions. But you don't have the latest version of the rulebook. Another time. It shall leave a decision to the Chief of Management on condition that it has the staff and financial conditions provided. Third time. We are not monitoring, we will not monitor the effectiveness of individual local offices, because we are not interested in this as a ministry. But we remain in the system of monitoring the efficiency of the administrative unit as a whole. So we're not going to measure the work of that referee who works at the local office, but we're going to look at the productivity of the administrative unit as a whole through the new system of administrative statistics. Fourth time. The system is set up to provide a uniform range of services that citizens, citizens and legal persons will receive in local offices, unlike before. We got the whole catalog. In addition to those services listed there - this is about 40 of the most basic administrative services - the Regulation also states that the local office provides all information about all other administrative services, it is said that a point of information is served. Flexibility is also in the fact that the Chief of Management will decide how he will handle the official hours. Thus, the local office will only be exceptionally - this is possible two cases in Slovenia - will have the status of an organisational unit that will operate 5 days a week, 8 hours a day. That'll be an exception. Otherwise, it will be flexible according to the needs of the local population. Twice a week, three times a week, once a week. Maybe even during some administrative actions, such as passport swaps and so on. So, maximum flexibility. But that's all I can say about space. Often the question was - and this question is, say, connected with the use of premises by the State, and this was often open - is it right for municipalities to provide their space for the functioning of the administrative unit? Is it right for municipalities to lend their computer to the administrative unit? We are limited by the resources intended for the operation of administrative units. The municipalities are prepared to come across and space and not transfer the computer to its own, but to transfer it back to the use of the country, using the administrative unit. The benefit is mutual: the country gives the person, the person, the person, once, twice, three times a week if necessary, and the congregation comes to her with its premises, office, and computer on the container. We estimate that this system is good and that we will keep it for the future. We have over 90 computerized local offices. We'll only keep those who will be included in the information spine. Local offices in the old sense of home offices are unnecessary. They make sense where they provide a comprehensive service to the customer, the user.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word because we still have some time? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I conclude the debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. On the proposal for a decision of the parent committee not to adopt a proposal for the adoption of that authentic interpretation, we will decide today at 5:10 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u99	PROPOSAL FOR TRANSITIONAL EXPLANATORY REASONS 218. Member of the Buildings Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 218 of the Buildings Act was submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the representative of the Council of State the floor to further explain the proposal. Mr. Fras, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Well-welcome fellow Members, fellow Members. As a representative of the Council of State, I will try to explain our request or proposal for an authentic explanation of Article 218 of the Buildings Act. Although I must say in the introduction - as you may have understood from the material or those who are dealing a little more with local self-government or also with the municipalities, the way in which the compensation is given, you probably already know - that a number of these reasons, which were the main reasons for this initiative, have already been eliminated since the Ministry of the Environment and Space for postponing this requirement has already issued a supplementary instruction that eliminates one of the essential misunderstandings. In our view, there are still some outstanding issues. So allow me to complement or further support our initiative. The main reason for this initiative was, in fact, an explanation, or "compendium", as appointed by the Ministry of Environment and Space, which was published or I think is still on the Ministry of Environment and Space website and where local communities are to be interpreted twice after a new compensation for walled buildings. As a sum, for the first time, the refund applied to the useful commercial or residential area of the building located on that land. And once again from the surface of the land on which this facility stands. Such a practice did not have a basis in the law or is not recorded in Article 218. Perhaps the legislator was going to write something down here, but it wasn't written like that. This was the main and basic reason for us to request or give an initiative for the authentic interpretation of the law itself. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has defined our request and, as its opinion also suggests, does not oppose the requirement of an authentic explanation. The government has proposed an amendment to this requirement for an authentic explanation. This is because our request for an authentic explanation explains or eliminates only a misunderstanding or ambiguity regarding the way in which the compensation is given for this building site. It does not solve or answer the question of how the differences between the building and the building site will now be identified, or what data will be used to make those differences. It is said that between the area of the whole plot and the area for which only the compensation for the building plot is to be given and the area remaining on that plot, for which compensation should be measured as for the building plot that is not built. I believe that this issue or the interpretation of this matter may seem somewhat complicated. I'll try to make it as simple as possible. The point is that nothing changes in unburied buildings. We get two situations with built-up building sites. One situation is when a building plot is established on this building site as such. That's when the replacement is measured the way it was. So it's from the useful or business area of the facility. However, as long as such building site is not specified - it is said - the locational land has not been issued or the subsequent functional land for this facility has not been determined, then the refund for such land shall be administered twice. Once for building land, for that part of this land, which represents the foundation of the building, increased by factor 1.5. For that part of the area of this land, the refund shall be the same as before, it shall be said, of a useful or residential area. Now the difference between the area of this foundation of the object increased by 1. 5 and the whole area of the plot, and for that difference of surface, measure the compensation for the building land. You can probably imagine what a project this is for local communities. This means that it is necessary to individually check each plot, to determine whether it has a specific - I am talking about building land, so that there is no misunderstanding - a building plot. If he's got it, fine. If it does not exist, find the foundation of the object that stands on this plot, multiply it by 1. 5 and this area shall be deducted from the entire surface of the building. In short, it is a very large scale, a very difficult task, which will also take time in the local community and, finally, money for this matter. I stress this in particular from this context, because the applicant or the Ministry of the Environment and Space only notes that the remuneration is granted only in the preceding period until this instrument or this public financial benefit or the tax is reimbursed as such.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u101	Mr. Frans, your time is up a little while ago if you haven't noticed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u102	I'll take care of it. So, too, in the national world, we join and support the government's proposal to extend this interpretation. We believe it would be useful, but the Economic Committee did not support this proposal at its consideration of the government. I don't think it's a procedural option either. But I hope it's some kind of law-abiding regulation. I'm sorry to exceed your time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u103	Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr Mamič, New Slovenia. Excuse me! You're right. A little bit of a mix-up was on my side. The proposal for an interpretation was treated by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee as a parent working body. Please, the rapporteur of the Committee, present the report. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Infrastructure Committee considered the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation at its meeting on 16. 5. 2003. The proposed proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was given in writing by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service found that, according to the legal nature of the authentic interpretation, the text of the article in question did not need to be interpreted. Notwithstanding the applicant's finding that the transitional period is not defined, which is not solved by an authentic interpretation, the solutions adopted are sufficiently clearly recorded. On the basis of these, it is possible to determine the areas from which compensation is paid, both for the walled area and for the walled building area. However, the whole arrangement should take due account of the transitional provision of Article 180 of the Law on the regulation of premises, which in fact constitutes the legal basis for the payment of compensation for the use of building land as a tax. The representative of the Government presented the position of the Government, from which it follows that the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the text of Article 218 of the Buildings Act does not conflict, but considers that the interpretation of the article in question is not necessary. The Infrastructural Committee also adopted, on the basis of this view of the Government, after a discussion, the conclusion that the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the text of Article 218 of the Buildings Act is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. It is now up to the members of the groups. Mr. Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u106	I welcome all present. I thank you for your word. Therefore, the position of Nova Slovenije in relation to the authentic interpretation of Article 218 of the Buildings Act. This interpretation raises the question of how to give compensation for the use of buildings according to the new definition of building land following the last year's Law on the Construction of Buildings. Following the regulation so far, this compensation for unpaved building land is paid from the whole area of the unpaved building land. On the other hand, for the building’s walls, it pays from the residential or business area of the building, which is located on the building’s plot. In the case of multi-story buildings, this means that the compensation for the use of the building land shall be awarded for each floor, not only for the floor or for the land on which the building is situated. We're talking about land. According to Article 218 of the Construction Act of last year, construction plots with construction buildings and construction engineering buildings are considered to be walled buildings. With such a definition, the municipalities were afraid that they would from now on be able to charge compensation for the use of the building land even in skyscrapers only from the floor floor or the area of the building plot on which this building stands, not from the floor of all floors. Such an interpretation would be detrimental to the municipalities whose income is compensated for the use of building plots. On the other hand, I would relieve the owners of buildings liable to pay this tax. The municipalities consider that the law should not thus reduce one of the most important sources of revenue from the municipal budget, with which a wide range of funds for economic and social development are also provided. Or, in other words, money for the mayor's and other municipal officials' salaries. Therefore, the Council of State requested an official interpretation of that provision of the law by allowing the municipality to continue to collect compensation for the use of the building land of each floor of the multi-story buildings, not only from the area of the plot on which the building lies. To comfort the congregations. In the New Slovenia Group, we first ask ourselves this problem: Why are we still counting on building owners to contribute to the use of building land under the 1984 Act, which was a socialist law, which considered this contribution to be some kind of rent for building land that was then only socially owned? At that time, property relations have only changed so that the owners of buildings can now be real owners of private land, not just users of state land. This contribution should therefore at least be renamed a contribution to municipal equipment or the like. In no way can he continue to give the impression that he does not own all property rights on his land or in the building. If this interpretation is judged from a tax point of view, we believe that the regulation so far is wrong. However, the owners of several floor buildings for the same building land must pay several times more than the owners of the floor buildings. In this way, luxury and irrational land use is promoted. On the other hand, they are penalized by high-level owners who live above each other in blocks or towers. All of these interpretations, however, are aware that in this country the financing of municipalities is very poorly regulated, which is why they must also help themselves with such revenues when compensation is paid for the use of building land. We therefore agree with the formal explanation submitted that, irrespective of the text of Article 218 of the Buildings Act, municipalities may continue to account for the contribution to the use of building land in the current manner. However, such a position does not oblige the Government to be liable to provide the municipalities with as soon as possible with other more well-founded sources of income and to abolish the contribution to the use of building land as a form of taxation. Consideration would also be given to the taxation of habitable land which owners do not wish to sell. In addition to the fact that the municipality would have a richer budget, I believe it would also be a contribution to the improvement of the demographic problem, which is far from being achieved in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec is the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Much of the misunderstandings, as Mr Fras has already said on behalf of the applicants, have already been resolved in connection with the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 218 of the Buildings Act. In fact, the main problem was whether certain plots, walled plots are paid for by means of a so-called double contribution, a walled plot number, where the facility is located with a functional land, or where a double contribution is paid, is said to be a contribution to the walled building surface as well as to the unwalled building area. These things are more or less clear. The representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as the Secretary of State, also pointed out the unacceptable provisions in the law that municipalities should regulate decisions on the compensation of building land under the new building law within 6 months at the latest. We can now see that these provisions had too short a deadline for municipalities not to carry out such a difficult project in such a short time. And then they will not be able to carry out all the other obligations imposed by law on the congregations. Therefore, I believe that this is one of the opportunities for us to put in place in the future, when we adopt systemic laws in these areas, the optimal deadlines that are possible to meet all the conditions imposed by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Brank Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u110	The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will follow the views of the Committee and the Government that there is no need for an authentic explanation. It will therefore also support the proposed decision of the Committee that an authentic interpretation of Article 218 of the Law is not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u111	There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Franz Chebulj has the floor, but he is not present. It's also not France Kangler, it's not France the Rock. The proposer has already spent his time. The government representative is here. I say hello to him. In my review, it does not appear that they would apply for a debate. But if you want a word because we still have time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The Government agrees with the Committee's proposal that an authentic interpretation of the text is not necessary. We apologize for the levers already said by the proponents that there was a misunderstanding in one of the informal compendiums that circled around. In July, the Minister issued an official instruction, which is not only in accordance with the law, but also in a reasonable manner. Key in this law was that in Slovenia there are at least two or three problems arising from the practice so far before the implementation of the building law. In Slovenia, we have the practice of some municipalities collecting compensation, some not [[It's getting smaller and smaller.]] . Secondly, the ratio between the remuneration received from the building or from any person is even 1:38. In short, very big differences. What the building law has laid down is that compensation must be charged from all facilities, but in accordance with the record practice so far and with all things. Except for the exceptions that are set. While the value of the point is determined by the municipality itself. Secondly, what is new is that for building land that is not built, compensation is also charged, everywhere for one very key reason or, in particular, for the purpose of activating these walled areas, rather than spreading the wall to some other non-sustainable areas for unnecessary purposes, particularly agricultural land anywhere else. At the same time, I can inform you that the government has now practically provided some additional funds, stimulated municipalities to revitalize the community’s spatial plans. Over 80 congregations asked for this assistance from the State and provided contracts to prepare the material by the new year. And the other 70 are asking for a new year. As far as the recommendations are concerned - Mr Mamić, just another explanation, for the buildings of the municipality - as I said - can be collected further, as they will find that they have a lack of records, they will complement it, but that is their business. While the additional source is for those unbuilt lands where the building does not stand, or factors such as those already calculated there. As far as the deadlines are concerned, Mr Rokavec rightly pointed to a relatively short deadline. Apparently, we were all too optimistic together. This marriage period does not have sanctions. However, what the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has warned the municipalities is that they are obliged to adopt the decisions by the end of this year at the latest. Which means that they had this subsequent notice they had explained, the record was provided immediately thereafter. So I hope that most things will be done during this time. Secondly, our ministry is also interested that the Ministry of Finance will prepare a new real estate tax law as soon as possible, which would, of course, resolve matters over a longer period than the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We still have some time. Who wants a word? I believe that those who are not accustomed to these minutes and seconds in this national council, as important as the railways, felt as if they were at the train station, I suppose. But, well, who else wants a word? No one else. Then I conclude the debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. On the proposal for a decision of the parent committee not to adopt a proposal for the adoption of that authentic interpretation, we will decide today at 17.10. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll resume at 3:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u114	Let's get back to work. Between us, I very much welcome the representative and representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. I invite the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Slavko Gabra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have before us a proposal to amend the decree of the University of Maribor. With this decree we are trying to complement the University of Maribor programme with two more colleges. The Faculty of Police Safety Sciences is included in the University of Maribor - which is probably at least as important - with this decree we open the formal door to the establishment of the Medical Faculty in Maribor. The matter ahead of us is relatively simple. We expect the National Assembly to take a decision to extend the activities of the University of Maribor. Allow me to say, however, that today this operation is simple because much work has been done in the past. On the one hand, the Ministry of Health, together with the Chamber, has found that today there is a great need for additional staff in this area. This was a fundamental prerequisite for the fact that it could at all join the serious preparation of this whole project. However, of course, the trainees have done a lot of work and proved that they are capable of such a demanding project at an appropriate level to provide both the professional basis for the start of a part of the Faculty of Medicine, as well as the space that has proved to be behind these projects and is willing to provide a certain part of the start-up. Today we can find that an important part of the preparation for the eventual start of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor in the academic year 2004/2005 is behind us. But let me say this because I think it's also that everything's not done yet. That, as we expect, a vote will probably take place here today in the National Assembly, which will formally open the door to the formation of this university. However, in order for the entry to be carried out in the study year already mentioned to be completed, it will be necessary to complete all the necessary infrastructure and staffing needs to complement the entire structure of the institution, which will be developed after the start of work for several years. We expect that in the study year 2010, 2011 will be fully operational and that we will have this second medical faculty in the country. Certain basic information on how the entire project is to be covered, i.e. this whole expansion of the activity of the University of Maribor is also before you in the material sent to you by the government. Allow me to propose, on behalf of the Government, that you support these envisaged amendments to the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u117	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear fellows and fellows, a very nice greeting! At its 24th meeting, the Committee considered the proposal for a decree amending the decree of the University of Maribor and found in the introductory part that it had met with the content of this decree at several meetings. First, at a meeting of the National Assembly, where we discussed the National Higher Education Programme and the National Assembly adopted a landmark decision, which read: "The Slovenian National Assembly proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its professional bodies prepare as soon as possible the professional basis necessary for the decision on the eligibility of the Faculty of Medicine within the framework of the University of Maribor." At its 12th session, on 14.3.2002, the Committee discussed the procedures for the establishment of a medical university at the University of Maribor. At its 14th session, the Committee took note of the professional basis for the decision on the eligibility of the establishment of a medical university at the University of Maribor and also called on and proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to define, in accordance with the objectives of the National Higher Education Programme, a strategy for the provision of doctors and to accelerate activities related to the establishment of a medical university at the University of Maribor. Also at the 20th session on 7.5.2002, information was provided on procedures for the establishment of a medical university at the University of Maribor. There, too, the committee adopted a similar decision to accelerate all activities to establish this medical faculty. So at the 24th meeting on 17 September, when we discussed this, we listened to the proposaler, who found why it was necessary to change the decree and why two colleges, medical colleges and the Faculty of Police Safety Sciences were set up at the University of Maribor. He said that the newly established medical faculty was created because of the great shortage of doctors in Slovenia, which the medical faculty of the University of Ljubljana alone cannot manage. He further said that until now the high police security school, founded by the Republic of Slovenia, acted as an internal organisational unit of the Ministry of the Interior. Now, as a college for police-security conduct, join the University of Maribor. Its premises remain the property of the founder of the university and will be left to this college for use. The representative of the legislative service, of course, had some comments on the decision. In particular, comments were made regarding the provision of facilities for the functioning of the Faculty of Police and Security. On the Committee, this amendment comment was satisfactorily resolved. At the same time, she pointed out that there were no very clear relationships with the medical faculty, since the decree did not have provisions on financial resources as start-up funds. [[for the construction of premises and the purchase of equipment]] provide financial consortia. It is the funds from which the Institute for Anatomy will be built and so on, and all the municipalities of northeastern Slovenia have roughly raised one euro per capita to start this investment by themselves. Last week, as far as I know, a foundation stone was laid. The representative of the University of Maribor expressed satisfaction at the successful progress of the process of transformation of the University and replied to the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service that the funds dedicated to the Faculty of Medicine, by a statement signed by the Director of the General Hospital of Maribor, the Vice-President of the Consortium for the provision of financial resources for the development project of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Maribor and the Rector of the University of Maribor, were definitely intended for this construction and will be granted to her after the Medical Faculty was formally established, also in use. Members of the committee have always supported the establishment of this public institution, medical college, almost unanimously during several meetings, as well as comments on the accession of the Faculty of Police and Security to the University of Maribor. Thus, the members of the committee, with the synergy of all members, unanimously supported the draft law and proposed to the National Assembly that the supplementary proposal be adopted and thus achieved one of the main objectives of the National Higher Education Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. First of all, Mr Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group welcomes the proposal for a decree before us. He's bringing us two news. The first is that so far a high police-security school, which has acted as an independent higher education institution, will be finally transformed and promoted to a college - it will be called the Faculty of Police and Security Orders. And another novelty is the establishment of a medical university. Both colleges will become new members of the University of Maribor. We stress that it will gain not only Maribor, but all Slovenia, in many ways. For the first time, these new colleges will contribute to the greater completeness of the University of Maribor. Secondly, as a result, this will strengthen Maribor as the central city of the eastern part of the country, while in the scientific field it will strengthen the creation of a wider scientific circle and a critical mass. This will undoubtedly stimulate the dynamics of the exchange of expert opinions and views, which in our opinion will strengthen the confidence of Slovenian experts in the medical profession. This is also in their interest, as they will face competition from the other Member States on the basis of one of the four pillars of the European Union's free movement of labour in the near future, once it has entered the European Union. Finally, the establishment of a medical faculty is also an event for all citizens of Slovenia and others who will seek scientific assistance in our hospitals and elsewhere where the graduates of this university will go to work. We expect and believe that the newly established university will truly produce so many doctors that we will cover the anticipated increase in the needs for these personnel in the future. Just for illustration. Projections by 2020 show that in Slovenia we will need about 1,100 doctors or a quarter more than we have today. In the countries of the European Union, for example in Finland, which is developing very rapidly mainly due to high investment in knowledge and is also a country that is an example to us, they have one medical college per million people. If we do this in our space, we find that by establishing a medical university in Maribor we will reach the level of those countries with which we want to compare ourselves. Finally, the DeSUS Group expects that a degree in dentistry or dental medicine will be introduced in the future at the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, as the new law on scientific names calls it. Our parliamentary group will be pleased to support the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the decree to the transformation of the University of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Welcome to the government, greetings from colleagues and colleagues. With the decision under consideration, the University of Maribor will be richer for two colleges, the Faculty of Police Security and the Faculty of Medicine. In the New Slovenia Group we are pleased that the project of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor is already so far away that today in the National Assembly we will adopt a decision to set it up. The woman at the outset was aware that the establishment of the medical faculty was a very demanding project, so today we are so much more pleased to find that the approach and continuation of the preparation of the laboratory and everything else needed to be done was serious and professional. The higher education world also confirmed in its opinion that all the conditions for stopping the medical faculty at the University of Maribor are met. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the establishment of the Maribor Medical Faculty is very important for Slovenia. First, due to the lack of domestic staff in health care, secondly, the location in Maribor is also important. The eastern part of Slovenia is gravity in Maribor or will gravity after Slovenia enters the EU in Gradec more than in Ljubljana. It is therefore important that our students can study in Maribor and not in Austria. We also believe that there could be cooperation and exchange of students in this part of Europe, among medical universities in Ljubljana, Maribor, Graz and Zagreb, as the study content of the Maribor Medical Faculty is comparable to that of modern medical schools. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor and we want to work successfully for all who will work and study on it. We also support the Faculty of Police and Security Sciences. The decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor will be supported in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u123	Respectable present. For the decree or content of the decree before us, in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it is a reflection of the joint work of all parliamentary groups in this National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the institutions of Maribor. I think that this type of cooperation may also indicate the expansion of quality work in the other areas of which this national assembly deals, which are dealt with by the legislative branch of government and, after all, by the executive branch of government. The transformation of the University of Maribor and in this sense its expansion is and must be all-Slovenian significance both in the field of health care, where speakers are ahead of me and it is written in the material that the needs of new doctors, who will on the one hand offer new knowledge, on the other hand the page of continuous health progress and, of course, what is most important, health services. On the other hand, the expansion of the University of Maribor also means progress in the field of the Faculty of Police and Security Sciences. After all, the decree itself also means the recognition of the city of Maribor, which is at this moment despite the big words, this recognition is still needed. If we remember, you were giving Maribor a big earring just 24 hours ago. It follows that such commendation is necessary at this time. However, it is not equivalent to losing the activity that you caused yesterday, that there will be no executive, legislative, judicial branch of power in Maribor, Styria and elsewhere in Slovenia, but you have completed the case with European institutions. In return for this city you offered Maribor a university. In any case, the city of Maribor will accept this, but we must be aware that this will be accepted by Slovenia, because all of this is of Slovenian importance. Therefore, it is inappropriate to expect that only Maribor will benefit from this. We estimate in the national party that it makes sense to continue with the latest pace that activities will not die before they are found and implemented to legalise the resources needed, the financial resources needed to start. In the Slovenian National Party, or representatives of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will also continue to support all the aspirations that will move towards a real and speedy recovery of the decree in practice, resulting in new staff in both areas. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we welcome the matter. Again, I regret that yesterday you Members and Members of Parliament have taken the view that no other place in the Republic of Slovenia will have any more detailed functions, and once again I stress, not the legislative, not the executive and not the judicial branches of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives and government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed decree on amendments and amendments to the decree on the reshaping of the University of Maribor concerns two colleges. And they will both make an important addition to the internal structure of the University of Maribor. When we decided in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to support the proposed decision, we relied on two expert opinions from the Council for Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia. This gave a positive opinion on the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment of the Faculty of Police and Security Sciences, taking into account the opinions of the experts and the assessments of the World Commission for Humanistic Social Sciences and Education on the Elaborate for the Conversion of High Police and Security Schools into the Faculty of Police and Security Sciences. We now have a decree on the membership of this university at the University of Maribor. The new university programme will no longer be financed from the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, but from the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The organisational master will be more involved in the University of Ljubljana, but he will join the University of Maribor, as it is said, even though this university will not change the place of its operation. This confirms at a symbolic level that the University of Maribor is not only a Maribor University or a Styrian University, but a Slovenian University. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we are particularly pleased that today's decision opens up formal possibilities for the establishment of a medical faculty in Maribor, which will confirm several decades of long desire and efforts to establish and substantively complement the University of Maribor. Now, I would like to stress in particular the two reasons why we believe that this seems not to be such a very important step, very important for the university to be able to open the door to new students. Let's hope in the next study year. Let me give you these two reasons. The first is sure that by educating doctors, including in Maribor, we will gradually reduce the lack of these experts, and on the other hand I think it is very important that there will be increased opportunities for graduates to participate in those studies that they have chosen as their first course. In the United Social Democrats Group, we are confident that the high level of consensus and concerted action at local and national level will be confirmed in the quality programme of the Faculty of Medicine, and in its implementation, which will promote competitiveness in training for a profession that is primarily aimed at people and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! This is one of those agenda items at the meetings of the National Assembly where it cannot be voted against. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed decree. We certainly do not want to diminish the importance of the new member of the University of Maribor of the Faculty of Police and Security Sciences, and we look forward to doing so, and I would like to give particular thought to the fact that the new member of the University of Maribor will be a medical faculty. The establishment of a medical university is a major event. In our view, this is also an opportunity which gives Members and Members the opportunity to say what is a more elevated word. This is a great event for the nation, for the nation, for the country, for all its inhabitants, for the university, whose new members will become both colleges, for the local or regional environment. This is a big event for Slovenian medicine, for Slovenian medical science. Most of all, it's a big event for patients. It's been a long way. There was a lot of stubbornness, persistence, professional credibility in Maribor, cooperation with politics in Styria and finally there was a symbiosis that supported the decision in the heads of those in Ljubljana who created the development of the Slovenian medical profession and education. Many, as the minister said, participated in this journey, and there were many interns. Thank you all very much. Last but not least, the previous rector team has done a lot to keep us in front of each other today. This is a positive event for the entire area of Slovenian health. The area of Slovenian health is overloaded with negative roads. There's a lot of good in Slovenian medicine. Let the establishment of the University of Maribor, the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, help strengthen positive energy in Slovenian health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! It's nice to talk about a project that is ruled by consensus in this National Assembly. But I think you all agree that this project is primarily a medical school. Maribor will get two colleges, one will carry only a seat, and the other is something new in the Slovenian space. There are two reasons why we probably all support this project. First of all, it's a matter of need for medical personnel. The capacity of the university must certainly follow the needs of the population. It has been known for many years that it is imperative to increase these capacities in the medical school. The capacity has increased slightly in Ljubljana, but it has not been able to increase more than that. And a lot of effort, a lot of evidence, a lot of persuasion was needed to finally figure out, and health policy first found that we really need a much larger number of doctors than we have. For the first time, because the current capacity did not reach the mortality of doctors, the current faculty could not even guarantee the same offer of doctors from Slovenia, not only to respond to the needs of an increasing number. And so it finally matured to think that we need between 80 and 100 new freshman cities in medicine. Of course, health problems were first exposed, in health policy. The solution could not be found here and all the requirements were then passed on to the school area to which they belong. And here, amazingly, was to find agreement, to find an understanding of this, so that it also woke up all the potential at the local level, in Maribor, in medical circles, among Members and so on, and so we came to this. Taking into account that we urgently need to increase the capacity of the medical faculty, which in just ten years will have the expected effect, although late, but better now than never. Why are we also pleasantly surprised or supportive of opening up these facilities in Maribor? For the following reasons: Styria is staffed much more than other areas in Slovenia as regards doctors. It is probably also the reason that the scab girls, Styjerkas, come to Ljubljana, the Ljubljanaians of course rush in, and at the age of graduation, she is already in love with her ears and stays in the environment where she studied. The Styrians, the boys, the upright, the brave probably find their partners often in Ljubljana. So Styrian students don't come back, unfortunately, they don't go back to the countryside. This is the first success that the Styrians will have the opportunity to study in Maribor. Your Honor! This isn't a joke. This is a problem we've identified for a long time. But you don't get it in Gorički, and you don't get it up there blindly unless you import it from the neighbouring Republic. See how many Croatian-speaking doctors there are in Styria. Another problem we do not think about when we enter Europe is the opening of borders and the intrusion of German intellectual potential or the power of these colleges to suck up our students. I have quite a few colleagues who studied at Trieste who studied in Graz who studied elsewhere. Many are abroad, many are lost, and somehow they have lost contact with Slovenia. She's lost, as I say, her connection to the birth breast. That's too bad. I think that maintaining Slovenia means building on these borders an intellectual potential, strengthening institutions, especially institutions such as the Faculty of Koper, Gorica in Maribor. Maribor has shown himself capable of doing this, willing to do so, so we are glad of this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ljubo Germič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u131	Dear President, Mr Minister, co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will be giving a decree on amendments and amendments to the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor, which, by establishing a medical university and including the Faculty of Police and Security Sciences, complemented the internal structure of the University of Maribor, in accordance with its development programme. The content of the decree follows the definitions of the National Higher Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, where we wrote that, in meeting the conditions for quality work, it is possible to properly redesign the current study programmes and introduce new ones in line with the development plans of universities, the staffing situation in particular areas and the employment needs of the country and regions. Special attention will also be paid to health care, with the possibility to study in particular medicine, information technologies and language studies being expanded as soon as possible. Although efforts have been made to establish another medical faculty in Slovenia for a number of years, they have been particularly intensive in the last two three years, with the participation of the National Assembly very actively. A thorough analysis of the situation and comparison with a number of European countries showed a relatively large lag with the supply of doctors in Slovenia, and the need for doctors was further demonstrated by the unpleasant age structure of doctors. On the basis of the positive decision of the Higher Education Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the compliance with the law of certain conditions for the establishment of the University of Maribor Medical Faculty, a clear assessment of the Minister of Health is made that by 2020 Slovenia will need 1,100 doctors or about 25% more than now, and the conclusion that the University of Ljubljana Medical Faculty for the specific and nature of the study itself cannot meet these needs by increasing the entry. In support of the amendment of the decree, it should be pointed out that preparations for the establishment of a medical university at the University of Maribor, in cooperation with the Maribor General Hospital, were carried out at all times. The experience of the Maribor General Hospital, which has already been fully involved, as well as some other hospitals in Slovenia, has borne an important burden on the extension of admissions to the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana, as learning skills and skills from clinical subjects requires work at the hospital. In particular, it should be pointed out that the drafters of the study programme have always led to the requirement of international comparability, quality and modernity, which is essential for entry into the common European space. This includes the experience of various European countries in the study programme, the experience of teaching at the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana and the coordination and cooperation between the two Faculty of Medicine in Slovenia will allow for the free passage of students between the two faculties. The establishment of a medical faculty in Maribor and the implementation of an internationally comparable study programme will have a number of other positive effects in our opinion. This will increase accessibility for these studies, as the number of admissions to medical studies has virtually not increased in recent years, with an extraordinary increase in the number of students. Thus, a number of candidates who have continued their medical education in neighbouring countries or who have opted for other study programmes for objective reasons will have the opportunity to achieve their objectives. It is also of paramount importance that the development of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor will also ensure a higher level of health services, as the latest achievements of science can be applied more quickly in practice, and it will certainly be possible to detect a positive impact and raise medical knowledge and health services in hospitals, not only in Maribor, but in the whole northeastern region, Slovenia and, we are sure, also in the wider European area. In doing so, particular emphasis should be placed on the support of the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Maribor of the type of institutions of northeastern Slovenia, which have already provided, within the consortium, the considerable resources needed to cover the start-up costs. The amendment of the decree represents an important step in development also for a high police-security school, which as a college for police and security sciences will significantly complement the internal structure of the University of Maribor. From the very beginning of 1973, when the Higher Administrative School in Ljubljana set up the Internal Affairs Education Department, the idea of a single school was also growing by supplementing the content of the study programme. By adopting the proposed decision, we want all the necessary activities to be carried out in the future, so that we can turn on the green light to the first generation of enrolment in the school year 2004-2005 and that the implementation of the study programmes in those faculties would make an important contribution to the realization of the knowledge-based society, one of the fundamental development objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Dr. Bajuk is not here, and Mr. Kangler is not. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the University of Maribor, the Maribor Congregation and the Maribor Hospital and the future medical faculty that you are in bed with! Let me also begin my own syntagma, that today is a great day for Slovenia, for Maribor, for the Slovenian nation and for all those who have a lifelong interest in the prosperity of Slovenia in a united Europe. This decree, which formally establishes two new members of the University of Maribor, the Faculty of Police and Security and, above all, the Faculty of Medicine, will help to make the University of Maribor, this second, alma mother, actually become a complete university. Last week at the opening of the foundation stone for anatomical institute, which will be part of the future medical faculty, Minister Keber stressed the personal place of the medical faculty within each university. And I agree with that. For this reason, it was urgently necessary from national interests to establish a medical faculty as soon as possible. Other important factors are, of course, the lack of medical staff, the constant deficit in the eastern part of Slovenia and, in fact, the deficit of this profession in Slovenia. The transfer of the head office of the Faculty of Police and Security Sciences from Ljubljana to the University of Maribor will also have a number of positive effects, it will ensure the independence of this college from the state bureaucrat influences and will prevent indoctrination of future police and security personnel against this state bureaucratic mentality, which is extremely important. And even more important is the establishment of a medical university. While we are establishing a medical university, I am pleased to have been able to participate intensively in the fights that were not easy to fight here. There was a huge subtitling contradiction between the lines, although everyone was officially ensuring that they were to be established. We have been through this phase and I am glad that we have passed, but at these moments of course I remember those giants who made it possible for Maribor to be Slovenian. This is Bishop Anton Martin Slomšek, who, with the transfer of the bishopship of Lavantina and the establishment of the university of theology, has laid the foundation for what we are establishing in Maribor today, the second is General Maister, who has provided Slovenianism in Maribor and the whole of Slovenia. Without these two men, Slovenia would not be. This establishment of the Medical Faculty is not such a comparable milestone with these two commendable acts, the transfer of the Lavantina diocese and the takeover of Maribor by General Maister, but goes to the same river. It is also an important milestone in the history of Slovenians and will be designed for eternity. Without completing the University of Maribor, Maribor would slowly sink under the hegemony of the scientific and cultural supremacy of Graz. We must be aware that, although we support Europe, we must do everything possible to preserve Slovenian identity, to preserve Slovenian life, Slovenian science and Slovenian culture. In Styria, we know what kind of degeneration pressure we Styrians have been subjected to in the past, and there is no guarantee that we are forever, even though united Europe is safe or safe from these influences. Such influences and aspirations continue to exist in modern Europe. Therefore, I would like to answer all those opponents of the medical faculty in Maribor, at least to be consistent Slovenians. And don't let them argue. From this point of view, it is also a mortal sin to oppose this medical school. I hope there will be no intellectuals working in the future a mortal sin for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u135	I too have to join this mood that a great degree of consensus has been reached, with regard to the establishment of these two faculties in Maribor and, in the first place, the Faculty of Medicine. This also opens up a chapter on the greater competitiveness of the university or colleges, in some way, must establish competition, in a good sense. It's not about real market conditions, it's about improvement. The second is decentralisation, which is important, that at these points, I have already pointed out yesterday or the day before, in these places where different nations contact, it is very important to put anchors of Slovenian identity. This is certainly education, but not only education, but I also miss in other areas, the financial ministry, banks, to take part there in an area such as Primorska, namely Nova Gorica, and Maribor, to strengthen these centres that will radiate, not only within the state of Slovenia, but also across, where it reaches, Slovenian life. When new regions are established in Europe, we will have to define new regions. The Austrians have already defined and their region will reach - Styria region to Croatia. Mr Il from Trieste also said that it was very good if the region was established to Zagreb. Colleagues and colleagues, where are we? But we're not behind? Where did we define the region? This is a convention on the question of Slovenia's future. How to set up a region? This is not about nationalism, but it is about establishing economic and other centres. This is important. The Benelux region has been established, it is being established. These are future tracks. I believe that the establishment of these two faculties will mean gaining Slovenian knowledge and increasing the number of staff, doctors and others that are still needed in the Slovenian economic and social space. Still, I could add that it would be more than mere joy. A few days ago, a doctor, Slovenian from the so-called category of Slovenians around the world, came to me from a clinic that he had established himself, an extremely important man with 20 years of practice and would like to work in Slovenia. You can't. State bureaucrats make it impossible. Finally, the key reason was that she had not yet completed her course or exam from learning about the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. They set him up here to perform the most demanding operations, but he cannot perform because it has to do with some other administrative obstacles. This law, which we have already completely changed three times in one year, should be taught three times by a man who is a surgeon in the order of this nonsense that we accept, and that is the condition that he gets a license. He can't get a license for this. Of course, this also affects the fact that the lack of doctors in Slovenia is such a "pishme art". In Italy, in order to return their citizens from abroad, they have opened offices inviting people, inviting Italians from the world to help their national economy. What about us? This is also what will have to be done. But I still believe that this step is a good one and that we have made an important movement in Slovenia and perhaps understanding between us in Parliament through this common approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and a very warm greeting from Styrians from Maribor! In fact, we can say today when we take a decision on the creation of the University of Maribor that the University of Maribor will have everything they have. Today we can say that the Ministry of Education in this mandate has done everything that the great ministries do. Strangely enough, one of the opposition praises the ministry in this way, but what is to be said in a positive way is also said by the opposition. And if anything, then I will do it with the greatest joy and joy. That's why, of course, I'm even more bitter about saying what's wrong. As a whole, the Slovenian Government has not done so in this mandate. It has not done that the state would have everything that the great countries have. It has not done what has already been said about regionalism today, about the transfer of certain matters to the rest of Slovenia. Slovenia is going to the European Union, Slovenia will, of course, be involved in the regionalisation of Europe. We're here. There's no other way. We have established the University of Cyprus in this mandate. The University of Maribor receives two new colleges and I will not be surprised or happy to think that we will make another university on the Slovenian border. These are the areas, these are the points where Slovenian national interest must, of course, be, and where Slovenian national interest is united and common. The projects we have undertaken in this country for the benefit of the state, citizens and citizens, together with the opposition and the position, have succeeded. Big projects have been successful, from the European Union, NATO. For this development and existence in Europe, the region, of course, is also a major project of the new Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. I have worked as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture throughout this project. The data available, from the fact that the number of students increased from 33 to 68 thousand, did not change the number of students in the medical school and remained at about 150 all the time. The analysis that is done is worrying, in the coming years we would lose a large number of doctors, so the question is, Why did someone defend themselves like that, or why did someone oppose it like that? One of the answers is the answers that are given themselves, where they come on their own on a day that happens in healthcare, which, of course, should not be happening. In those health-care environments where a doctor attends or where better working conditions need to be achieved, better conditions for a patient are involved by each individual, the local community is not there either, nor is there where they spend billions of Slovenian money unjustifiably and uncontrolledly. I believe that the medical faculty will contribute to, of course, such distortions and such behaviours in health care becoming less and less. I am happy and, as always, will be my "for" for the University of Medicine in Maribor today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! It does not happen every day in Parliament that all parliamentary groups, but in particular that all Members are so united in some matter or matter. Clearly, today's act, when we're preparing a decree or changing the decree to change in the University of Maribor, is one that has somehow really united us. This, on the other hand, proves that the matter is truly necessary, necessary, and that we all feel it somehow for our own. At the same time, there may not even be a need for some big words, however, this change of decree is one of the most important in recent years and the expansion of the second Slovenian University in Maribor is particularly important the establishment of a new institution, this is a medical university. This college, however, is established in a time that has some essential characteristics that have also conditioned this establishment. First I could say, acutely, I could already say acute lack of doctors in our country. The next thing that seems important to me is that Slovenian society is getting older, which means that the specific need of doctors for a certain number of residents is so much higher. The next fact is that so far the only institution that has taken care of the education of this staff in Slovenia has somehow not been able to provide sufficient medical personnel. And it is probably not irrelevant that the education system at the current university was such that the duration of schooling is slightly longer than elsewhere in Europe. Europe has already made some changes. This new institution will also speed this up to happen. Moreover, it may not be the most important thing that any competition is good in every area. The fact that education is a little longer for us in this frame also has consequences because graduates are older and there are many conditions on an international tender to obtain additional training age, with our graduates slightly reduced. It is also right to look at the time when a new institution is established by decree. I've already mentioned that we have a shortage of doctors that we've covered so far, as we knew and knew. But the solution was always that we were looking for graduates from the former common country, which was sometimes problematic. Last but not least, the Minister pointed out this in terms of expertise when he proposed two years ago that people from other republics of the former common country be given a special additional educational process; this, of course, casts a bad light on such a solution and is not a good journey for these people. Last but not least, the urgency of the second medical faculty is dictated by the fact that the Minister announced some cooperation with a similar ministry in the Republic of Croatia and with the medical faculty there, which means a somewhat easier transition of doctors from the Republic of Croatia to Slovenia. This is strange, of course, and that is why this matter has been directly called for us to do something in Slovenia and set up another university, which has been discussed for a long time. For Maribor and this part of the Slovenian space, the establishment of a medical faculty is certainly a major challenge, a responsibility. By opening Slovenia to the European space, insistence on the old - it is said that the non-establishment of another medical faculty in Maribor - would mean the departure of young people from this work to a study in nearby universities, where they have it arranged, in Graz, Budapest, Zagreb, and finally to nearby Italian universities. This would mean a deterioration of the Slovenian national space. The establishment of a medical faculty in Maribor also means a great strengthening of the importance and power of Maribor in the wider space, and this also grows only from a medical profession. I would now continue where my fellow Member has already started - that it might be somewhat too sentimental to compare the establishment of a medical university in Maribor with the action of Anton Martin Slomšk when he transferred the bishopship. And not only that, but what followed when the first religious education began to form in Maribor, later agricultural. Maybe this part is the final point in the rounding up of education in Maribor, as some strong regional, university center, in Slovenian language. At the end of this pleasant moment, you may only be able to exhale why we have waited so long after all that we have established this other medical faculty, when the needs for the staff he educates are so great and in the Slovenian space so great a deficit. Of course I'll support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of Members of Parliament and Members who have notified themselves of the word. Since there is still some time left and, of course, it is possible to distribute it between Members of Parliament and Members who would like to discuss it, two have spoken to me. I'm asking, would anyone else like a word? Three. Thank you very much. Five minutes. First Mr Sok, then Mr Kremjar and Mr Kavticnik. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear fellow Members and Members. Now I don't know what time I have? Four minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u142	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u143	Five minutes. Thank you again very much for your word. Once upon a time, not so long ago, we were able to hear that Maribor does not have sufficient personnel to carry out an important field of energy. Just today, we have heard something similar about the fact that there is a real problem with human resources in the Styria area. And there's definitely a health problem here that's pretty neat and big. It is not to be forgotten that Maribor experienced a major economic break in the near past, I could say, that many companies have failed in Maribor, that the country then turned its back on Maribor in some way and that it has, of course, had great consequences for the entire northeast of Slovenia, because Maribor represents ours, as we say, the Styrian metropolis. Of course, the consequences are still visible today. Today, however, Maribor is slowly strengthening despite its agricultural back. The economy comes to its senses if I put it that way. Certainly the proximity of Austria and the proximity of Slovenia to the European Union is a great opportunity for Maribor on the one hand and, of course, also responsibility. Speaking of responsibility, we cannot go beyond what has already been said here today, what happened more than 150 years ago, when the Slovenian language and the Slovenian nation were threatened by other European nations. Today, as we enter the European Union, when the borders that have secured us will no longer exist, how important it is to create a strong university and, of course, also the resulting strong economy as a defender against these influences, which will certainly be great here. I am sure that by doing so we also realize that there is no rarity yet today, that the Maribor opera is visited by many Austrians and that Maribor has opportunities in this direction extremely large. However, when we adopt this decree, I must say that I am not given any great euphoria either, because this decree that we are about to adopt today, all that concerns the medical faculty, is just a small stone in the mosaic of what is going to happen. In particular, it is necessary to provide financial resources. The municipalities and the Maribor economy, with their backs, will not be able to do so alone. And if we see what the problems of building up an oncology institute, a pediatric clinic, I expect something similar to this to happen here, and soon there will be an opportunity when we change the budget for 2004 and when we adopt the budget for 2005 so that both the government and its school ministry will be able to show whether we are serious or not. As for us Members from Styria and, of course, those who will come after us, I am sure that they will constantly exert pressure and this demand to make this happen as soon as possible. I think it is too long to wait until 2010, 2012, as the Minister initially said. So, we have to get to this solution early, we have to get to this solution soon, because if not, others, like us in other areas, will be ahead of us, even then. So, on one side of the open border, on the other side of our option. We must work together to make this decision as soon as possible. But since I'm already on the subject, I'd like to mention one more thing at the end. Mr. Minister, in Maribor there is another major problem concerning the University of Maribor, you need to resolve the issue of the Faculty of Agriculture, which this country must also solve within the framework of the University of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The establishment of a medical university in Maribor is an important event for the whole of Slovenia, as it is the establishment of another Slovenian medical university. The point is that it will be necessary and that it is right to do so, to cover something that is known to be scarce, that there are too few doctors at the moment and that there are too few doctors in the future, so studies show, so predictions show. It is therefore important that some very important hole, if I say so, be filled, but it is important to fill it in this way. This is a leap, I would say, into thought can, namely, centralisation, which we are talking about, is essentially a mistake in the head, in thoughtfulness and whenever this error is exceeded, whenever something like this is done, it is a great achievement, a great achievement by the proposer and all those who eventually press this button and decide to do so. Of course, it also shows that some people, some institutions, are given some recognition. It's a confession to the University of Maribor. Only the best universities have medical colleges. There is a recognition of a university that has been working seriously and well for many years and has done much, but in some distant past it has had some, say, concerns in some environments, of course outside this university. My time was said by the University of Labor, etc., although I've never seen anything bad about it. However, this is a recognition to the university, it is a recognition of the entire environment, it is a recognition of the health of North East Slovenia, it is a recognition of the end of the fact that this impact of health care on the university and universities on health - because it is a bilateral effect, not only that there are capacities - it is a matter of improving with the medical faculty, of course, through research work, through all that follows such study, including work in hospitals and the whole environment. In short, it's a big action, it's big things that aren't just Mariborian and I think that at this point the emphasis is just that it's a college in Maribor, it's not enough. This is a university, a Slovenian medical university, and this is important. Of course, it also points to the fact that in this small country, of course, we have capable people in the health of northeastern Slovenia, because without this base, without a base on one side of the hospital and on the other side without a base in the university, of course, this would not be the case. Since this is enough, it is nice and thanks to all those who have worked very hard for this university to get its place under this Slovenian sun, if I am a little pathetic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kavticnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I am confident that today we will confirm and adopt a decree amending and supplementing the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor. I am sure that this will set up two important colleges, and both will not be awarded to Maribor, but will be awarded to Slovenia, based in Maribor. This is the beginning of some kind of work. Of course it was necessary, and I'm sure there was a lot of work done. I am also convinced that there will be a great deal of sorting to be done in both universities, especially that the medical faculty in Maribor will be given the right conditions and the appropriate staff, so that the faculty will become able to compete in Ljubljana and that this way we will receive better quality studies in Slovenia, where students from Europe will also come. That's why I want you - the city, the ministry and universities - to do a lot to find this synergy and create good conditions for studying in these colleges.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate. We will vote today at 5:10 p.m. on the motion for a decree, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation and the adjournment of the session, which we will continue at 5:10 p.m. when we begin the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u149	Your Honor! We are moving to the vote at the hearing this morning. The consideration of item 15 of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption - was proposed by the Nova Slovenije Group to the President of the National Assembly, who was chairman, to extend this point in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by no more than one hour. As chairman, the President decided to give the National Assembly the opportunity, of course, to decide on this proposal, with a view to extending the debate on this agenda item by one hour. That's what the president said. We will vote on this proposal. Vote explanation, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u150	Dear Chairman! I think that the President who heads the National Assembly can determine whether it makes sense to extend the debate and how much and then propose to the National Assembly to decide on it. I didn't propose an hour. The point was that there were still a number of debaters who were willing to discuss and did not get a chance to discuss at that time, and also Mr Penko did not have the opportunity to answer all the questions raised. For this reason, I have proposed that the time for discussion should be extended. But I'm asking you to check to see if it's necessary to extend it by an hour. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much for that comment, Mr. Sok. However, if I understand correctly, the President used an hour at the time when we discussed this item, which was on the agenda. If you, as a proposalr, estimate that you need less time, please say so. 30 minutes? This time, as long as this proposal is adopted, will be divided among those who will sign up for the word, according to the number of notified persons. Therefore, the proposer has now drawn up his proposal, seeking to extend the consideration of these points by 30 minutes. This will be decided by the National Assembly. We're voting! There are 55 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 18. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the National Assembly has decided to extend the general debate on agenda item 15 by 30 minutes. Please, everyone who would like to sign up for the word to raise their hand and hold the air for a while. Mr. Penko, I ask you, would you like a word? Thank you very much. Allow me to read the names or surnames to see if I may have overlooked anyone: Mr Sok, Tsukati, Jerovšek, Pukšič, Kremjar, Mr Penko and Mr Zląbec. Any speaker would have had four minutes at his disposal. The minutes remaining, I think we can give Mr Penk two minutes. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you very much. It is obvious that I did not expect such a great deal of interest in the debate, because otherwise we would have suggested that this time should be extended to one hour. However, in this short time available, I would like to point out that this law on prevention or, as it is called, on the limitation of corruption will not live in practice unless at the same time we change some other laws. And if this commission, which this law establishes, does at least to review and propose which laws need to be amended, it will already be something. Let me mention just two things in this place that have surprised me lately. First of all, I would like to point out that about a month and a half ago, the government decided that the Ministry of Agriculture should publish the names of all those who received subsidies from any address in 2002. The Ministry has indeed published this list, but only published the names and surnames of the recipients of the subsidies. So if I use this comparison, let's say the name Novak Janez among the winners of the different criteria of these subsidies appeared, so I'll say, a hundred times. Then, when additional requirements came that the exact address should also be published, the answer was that this could not be done because it was classified. And what can we contribute to transparency in this area if the data on the winners are judged among the secret data? Then there is no way to control it. And now I am returning - it is said that if this law on the limitation of corruption is to be brought to life, then it is also necessary to amend this law, which will not determine in this way and protect someone, because we cannot achieve transparency and transparency under such a criterion. And then there's the other thing. I accompanied, like the others, the debate on public procurement in the Tarč programme. I was surprised by the information that with transparency in this area we could save 10% of the money annually, it is about 46 million Slovenian tolars. Since the municipalities are also present, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the past we have implemented all the legislation in this area in such a way that only the mayors decide on public procurement at local level. Why did this matter change in such a way when we could leave what was in force in the near past for the choice of the best contracting authorities to be decided by the municipal council. So, I would like to point out that some laws need to be amended, and we will immediately get a system that will be transparent, transparent and in which it will not be possible to make legal provisions. Since my time is up, thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Allow me to say in kind, as you will get the word: Mr Tuckati, Mr Kremjar, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Zląbec, Mr Pukšič and finally Mr Penko. The word has Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Certainly it is not only the issue of bribery in the case of public tenders or any claim of benefits or gifts in property matters in the Slovenian case, but in Slovenia there is an even greater problem of political corruption, gentlemen. Let me just mention one case. We have 42,000 or 41,000 pensioners in the title of martial arts pensions. We know what the age structure of people is, that one who was 15 years old in 1945 is now 72 years old and it is very easy to interpolate the age structure, recalculate it and then find out that there were 300,000 fighters in 1945. There were only 1,400,000 inhabitants in Slovenia at the time. It is certainly an incredible allocation of some rights that are not eligible. We are on the committee when we pointed out that, in fact, with 41,000 fighters' pensions, this is what fighters' pensions say should be reduced by 10% every year on a natural age scale, because in this age group 10% of people die each year. But in our case, they're only going to be reduced by 500, so that's going to be 41,000 by 500, instead of going down by 4,000, they're going down by 1%. That's what they say. New ones are added every year. Who's sharing these rights? And of course we call that political corruption, where those who grant this right have no direct personal benefit, but some political system has a party, maybe this way they buy their addresses, I don't know. Otherwise, this is an enormously expensive deal for citizens, for taxpayers, and as we have calculated, we currently have 32 000 unjustifiable fighting pensions, because there were no 300 000 fighters, we know that. And that means 5 billion a month, that means 60 billion dollars a year, 60 billion corruptly distributed. I would just like to ask myself why the members of the ruling coalition did not support our proposal on the committee, where we wanted to clarify this matter a little bit, this suspicion was taken slightly under scrutiny and the representative of the PIZ was prepared to provide us with data by the next meeting. We have asked only one key question: How many of these fighters who now have a fighting pension were born after 1945? That's the only question we've asked. Of course, you voted "no, we don't want clearance, we don't want an answer". This, gentlemen, is our political system based on corruption. Now, we're going to fight some small commissions, envelopes, some small things, the whole system based on it, and that's what I'm afraid of, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Actually, my debate is going to be some kind of replica. Mr Kelemina mentioned me in his debate, so roughly, but I waited, of course, for a magnetogram so that I could read exactly as was said. He said, "But Mr Kremjar would probably also sweep his left hand with this, to the one who, as an agent, always says that we have the appropriate institutions, the appropriate authorities, and that everything is arranged and taken care of, they are paid for it and let them do it." Exactly as I think, thank you, Mr Kelemina, for quoting me as precisely as I think it must be. In every legally regulated country, a well-ordered country is so, and this country must, if not yet, be a well-ordered state of law. Of course, there is legal order, institutions are in force, supervision of these institutions is very important, it is also an integral part of the institution, supervision of institutions. I've never claimed, and I'm not saying that this is flawless, far from this, but that's how the state works, and that's democracy, a Greek-type democracy, where everyone would gather in some field and be all judges and prosecutors. But it goes and goes at some other time, not in this one of ours, now. That is why I will always advocate that the state has institutions, that the police do their job, that the prosecution does their job, that the court does its work and that Parliament does not act as a prosecutor or as a judge, but that it performs in a supervisory function, where it has to supervise, and that it acts in a function where different authorities are called to do so, so that it works. That's the point of you, I'm not going to say that this is my philosophy, far from it, it's the philosophy of some regulated countries. As an example, we always give Scandinavian countries. I'm not quite sure there's any less corruption there. It's Cardeian just because people are different. Probably, but on some experiences. It's there because the state works like this. And that must be our goal. Not that we are going to hunt thieves, to say so, and those who give, and those who accept, but that we and, above all, this Parliament must create conditions for less corruption. The legislation must be such and the authorities must be such and the whole system must be so directed that these corruptions are less or are not at all, in some ideal future. The essence of my thinking is always the same and I will never change that, because I am deeply convinced that this is the only way that it can work. Not with extraordinary means, not with extraordinary circumstances, not with swift courts, not with our swift decisions, such or different ones, but with one regulated country, a country where exactly what needs to be done, and this must do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, if the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption were to bring what it should bring, then that would be good. Unfortunately, such a law does not, of course, make such a law. Look, there's been a lot of irregularities or irregularities lately, again. What's been going on at the stock market lately and so on. How many irregularities have occurred with regard to our economy at the time of the transformation of this damage to social property, the theft and so on, we have actually had a commission in the previous term, but of course we would talk about it, and on the basis of these facts and conclusions that the Commission has also adopted, reached some conclusions and would also lead to the drafting of the law, we have not done so. Well, why not? Because, of course, a group of Members, which opposed it, feared that other specific matters would come to the public during this report. But it would be good if they came. For example, if this law were to be so directed that, for example, such things as audit reports, when an audit report was drawn up between Sloveniansto and when it was found that there was damage to SCT's social property by some 12 million financial assets. Then it goes on to talk about the fact that it came between the SCT and the Party of Democratic Reconstruction, the current United List of Social Democrats, to the conclusion of an announcing contract to authorise its debtor Arkado to pay 10 million in favour of the Party of Democratic Reconstruction, or this law would have resulted in the fact that it would no longer be the case, as the report states, that the SDPSlovenia, which owed funds to pay the costs of the election campaign to Telstar, whose director is Dušan Kumer, made the concession contract and so on, and it damaged again - this is what the report says - for 4.5 million tolars. Ladies and gentlemen, with corruption, I'm afraid they're winning elections, and that's the wrong thing! There is too much money in the game, too much corruption money to be made, unfortunately, by elections, which is not right, which is also reflected in the functioning of such a parliament when certain legislation is adopted, which is then rejected by citizens and citizens at referendums.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Zląbec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u160	Although I wanted to talk about other things, my colleague Tuckati stabbed me with his thesis on how people born after World War II receive money belonging to fighters. You could say, mate, that what you said was actually moral corruption and erosion. All over Europe, old fighters and veterans, who were on the right side of World War II, were respected, except in the countries, did not clear up with collaboration such as Italy, Spain, Austria. And because these lands did not clear up, they did not clear up basic ethical laws. I am sorry, and I am sorry that almost half of our Parliament is so that they have not even resolved this issue intimately, let alone socially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Corruption is certainly the worst social evil that gnaws at our society and is high in the tops of this country. The main culprit for today's consideration of the law, which is in the fight against toothless corruption, is not Mr Penko, who is sitting here, who has to sit here before us, but all other ministers, who are significantly more concerned, are of course not present, but the direction of the government, the strategy of the government that literally supports, is still constantly supporting corruption. Yesterday, we had an example of how Mr Rop and Mr Bavčar decided on how to find the bank's director. It's corruption. And they were poured out - when they cut wages, into meetings and prizes in the control councils. The country has never prevented these enormous payments and rewards. But when a new buyer arrived at the Ljubljana Bank and we read this year, he said the unjustifiable were these enormous prizes. But the state never fought for money. The state was accelerating corruption. Mr Penk, I must say that he was immediately demolished, that he was immediately taken away from the bill's proposal, and he quickly found out what the main cause of corruption was in our country. Long-term rule, long-term political rule of one greedy party in relation to the economy and so on. There have been consequences that are difficult to resolve at this time. That's the correct conclusion. Of course, they reacted brilliantly, practically liquidating it politically because he quickly understood the root cause. I must say that the actual situation of corruption in our country is so critical that in the 12 years you have brought your authority to such a stage, literally as did ancient Rome in the few centuries that it has failed in decadent times. You've done it in 12 years. Look, it was a plan. Our Monitoring Commission has found that none of the government has ever asked intelligence about how, what some offers from the Cayman Islands mean and so on to take over our companies. No, that's what they supported. We've arranged for them to strengthen, say, the Department of Economic Crime. By this year's zero, they've hired people who will be operational in five years. In this way, corruption and economic crime are not being hampered; in this way, corruption and economic crime are being promoted. Because now that they've announced this, they've given instructions to those other people, and now you're stealing because the country isn't chasing and it's not able to prosecute, but they've cut off the out-of-date hands. And see, even in current cases of corruption, the state does not operate with the same vat. I got, without any indication that it was classified, an answer from the police, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , if in the case of SIBs, the clinical centre is called these tables, Zbiljski Gaj and the case of BUS in Maribor only special methods and means are used, as in the case of the Mayor of Cyprus. [[...]] No, they were not because the competent state prosecutors did not give these instructions for the application of supervisory measures. Tell me, how far is it that someone can steal 500 million? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or a billion that he is protected from the state, that they may not persecute him, because apparently those who steal a lot are protected, because nothing happens to those who are not persecuted. [[...]] Apparently, there is this limit and this instruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Finally, Mr. Penko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear Members! I'll try to answer the remaining unanswered questions. In the morning part of the debate, inter alia, it was problematic that the law concerns only officials and does not cover a sufficiently wide range of persons. In fact, the functionaries are concerned only with the part which deals with the supervision of the property status of the officials and the incompatibilities of the performance of the function with a gainful activity. To this end, the term "functioner" is also defined in Article 2. And then, in the preceding provisions, this concept is extended to some other important persons. Of course, in all the rest of the work, the law refers to everything, for example, in integrity plans, of course, it is not about respect for integrity and having only officials and so on, but about the integrity of institutions that cover all civil servants, including officials and so on. And in the final stage, the law also refers to the other side, including those who engage in possible interactions with officials, who may thus come into a corrupt relationship. Of course, they are also covered by the law when, of course, such conduct is prohibited in contact with the private sector. So that's the extent of the law. Let us not forget that we have special legislation on public servants, which specifically sets out these rules, which we bring here for officials. With regard to the lack of sanctions, I repeat that the law is not inflammatory, there is no criminal nature, and sanctions are in other regulations. Only the Public Procurement Act knows maybe 50 different offences or more. And it's so practical with all the laws. The penalty is thousands. And the criminal law, of course, has strict sanctions for corruption crimes. So that no new sanctions were necessary in this case, nor was it appropriate to prescribe. Sanctions shall exist for officials if they do not comply with the procedures provided for in the control. These sanctions shall be gradual, from a warning to a reduction in wages to a derogation from the competent authority to decide whether to terminate the mandate or any other sanctions, unless the termination of the mandate is in place in relation to, perhaps, the manner of election, the position of the individual official, etc. That is why the law is open in that part, talking about termination of the mandate and other procedures. With regard to judicial decisions relating to corruption offences, I have data, i.e. judicial statistics have been such that since 1995, 15, 1996 has been condemned. 19, 1997. 13, 1998. 16, 1999. 15 and 2000. 9 persons, no further information on legal convictions. In these cases, corruption is generally at the middle and lower levels, with a hand-to-hand bribe at this lower level. Data on the charges, perhaps for interesting reasons, in 2000 18 charges in this direction, 2001 27 and 2002 13 charges. It's from the D.A.'s office. So, it was given in a way, a criticism that there is no protection for those who report corruption. We have dealt with this and at some stage in the legislative process this idea was, but we have seen that in some way we take over this law then the powers of other institutions. When we have reviewed legislation, we have seen that such discrimination against those who, for example, report corruption is banned at the constitutional level and then drifts through different legislation. It is possible to seek justice in a court of law, it is possible to hear anonymous witnesses in a criminal procedure, etc., so the system is wide and complex and now to add something here at the principal level, probably makes no special sense. So, for this reason, I repeat, existing rules need to be known and enforced. There was a question about the status of this body, which is actually the status of Sui generis. We have also examined the matter from a constitutional point of view, we have found that there are at least two precedents from those bodies that are not listed in the Constitution, such as independent bodies such as the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, etc. These two precedents, based on the law, were elected by the State Audit Commission and by the Republic Commission. These are independent bodies which do not have such status in the constitution and are in fact excluded from the branch of authority. So we're essentially referring to this somewhere in this argument. Questions were raised here regarding the relationship between the Commission and the Council of the Commission, as regards membership in one body and another. I think this is more of a debate. I'd say it's, I think, consistent. It is the fact that the President of the Commission is a member of the Council for a number of reasons which he would not now mention. The other members of the Commission are not members of the Council because the other members of the Council are taxably listed. So he can't have any such ambiguity. Let us leave this discussion perhaps for individual articles, where we can still fix the matter if necessary. At first glance, I think the matter is consistently settled. With regard to the question whether it is possible now to abolish the working body of the national assembly by this regulation. I would say that this is the law proposed by the Government, the same proposer who also proposed this law, the applicable law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity. This is a newer law that brings about a different institutional arrangement in this area. It does not mean, however, that in this law, it is not explicitly stated that the body of the national assembly is hereby abolished. The National Assembly can maintain this body. This law refers to transferring the powers of this body to a future commission, archives and so on. However, this body may, of course, retain another role in cases where the Commission finds irregularities and mediates matters to the competent institutions on a case-by-case basis. And it is possible to find the role of this body, which, like all other bodies, as a body of the judiciary, as a body at the level of local self-government that should be established, will not be able to exercise partial control if the concept is adopted. The concept of single control by an independent institution. Otherwise, there is probably no particular difficulty in understanding that a newer law also makes a later one in this work. I agree that, as Member, Mr Petan has opened up the problem of the police, of course, we are also aware of this problem and are always dealing with it in some way. We have informed the Prime Minister of this and have also proposed concrete measures to change the situation in this area. More than that, the Anti-Corruption Office cannot do so in this case. We can also have different views on the Ministry of Agriculture's procedures regarding the publication of the subsidy data and, of course, we advocate the transparency of any state-owned operation, but in this case I am acting on behalf of the proposer and will not continue to do so. I believe, and I conclude that this is, however, a major step forward within the scope of the options. What can be optimally done is that we also need to do something in parallel in other areas, which we have repeatedly mentioned today, that the law can also be corrected during the procedure and that it may be possible to give it more teeth than some of you express. We just did what was possible. And on behalf of the rapporteur, I propose to the Members that they support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. Mr. Bayuk, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have noticed that you have actually allowed - and I congratulate you on this - during the meeting - that the representative of the government has been able to respond more widely and for longer than he has been destined to. I will also expect such an approach in other cases, so that the Member in the middle of a sentence will not be prevented from at least finishing. In any case, however, I note that Mr. Government Representative has not answered the question I have raised, but he has obviously had enough time now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Bayuk, for your congratulations, but you're wrong. That's exactly how long Mr Penko spent, as I said. We had at our disposal 30 minutes divided by seven is 28, and in the beginning I said four plus two minutes, Mr Penko. Look at the magnetogram. I have already concluded the general debate and hereby terminated this item on the agenda. The vote on the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be carried out in the framework of this point, which I am starting now, this is the point of the vote. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for an air navigation service bill. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 3. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the government's amendment to Article 13. We're voting. There are 58 of us in attendance, 53 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are also voting on the Government's amendment to Article 29. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We ended the vote on the amendments. Since the amendments adopted have led to a lack of consistency between the provisions of the bill, the Government, as a bill-maker, has tabled the harmonisation amendments to Articles 5 and 20. These two harmonisation amendments were received on the bench. Would you like a representative of the government? Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u168	In this morning's debate on this law, I said that the legislative service would propose harmonisation, just one amendment to Article 9. In the course of further coordination, it was found that a harmonisation amendment should also be drawn up and that it is therefore submitted to Article 9.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Members and Members have so far received two harmonisation amendments, namely Articles 5 and 20. Ladies and gentlemen, if you please, I would interrupt this item on the agenda to clear up this misunderstanding and return to it once we have completed the other items on the agenda. So I'm breaking up the 13th item of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption, first reading, is suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you very much. In order to discuss this year's issue in a folder entitled "Corruptions" I have created three such files from articles in Slovenian newspapers, I have had four minutes at my disposal, despite the fact that in the past years - I hope to say - I have asked the most questions sent on this subject, and also through the Commission I am fighting. That's why I have to say that I can't support this marriage because it's completely toothless. Because it is the continuation of the government's strategy and political will to do nothing in this area. That those who are most "powered" in corruption issues and many of these connected persons will be in the supervisory councils [[Recently, in recent decisions, the government has placed such people in important supervisory councils and sacred institutions]] - to keep you calm. That nothing will be done in this area, for the government, as I have already said, will be eliminated at a time when someone who makes a clear diagnosis appears. Mr Penko has it, on the fault of the party in power, for such a situation. And as long as the most draconically condemned were those who sincerely fought corruption, such as what was imposed by the court in the Stalinistic judgment to Mr. Hvalica, who said what we all knew, because we all knew which state official was working in such a way that he told the pure truth that we all knew, and was thus given such a draconian judgment - that he had to pay $250,000 if he did not publish it every day and published it every day. You know, it's a shame for the state not to be ready to fight corruption. And she's not ready with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We heard an explanation for the voice. Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u172	The New Slovenia Group will not support this law, because it will not make a single contribution to reducing corruption and may even speed it up. That is, those arguments that we made in the debate are indeed true. However, there is no political will in Slovenia, especially in the elite that is now ruling, this is crucial, the will not to suppress corruption, the non-restriction of corruption, as the fellow Member has already said. You're talking about restricting corruption, and it's true, somehow in one park, this corruption is taking place. The establishment of commissions and similar new bodies only entangles those who should deal with prevention, repression, to shift the problem to someone else. Hence, this law will bring nothing, and it makes no sense to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, explanation of voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Corruption is certainly a very dangerous, difficult problem and a heavy bar for our further development at the time of accession to the European Union. We would like to expect this to be an integrated package, where, in addition to this law, the penal code would be supplemented by other laws, some whole offense, where we would really try to curb this flood and this plague of this decade. The text is just so flawed and in this sense, as has already been said, in some way without a tooth, on which we do not hope that it will come, or at least I do not hope that there will be effective results, on the contrary, we will have a feeling, we have adopted a law, and now let us wait five, ten years, what will come of it, but maybe less corruption and the whole thing will move back. Again, we will not have some time of quality, comprehensive, integrated approach. If he does, I will not break the law myself, but if the law is passed, then expect that we, with a series of amendments, will really try to save ourselves, which is to get rid of him or supplement him by giving at least a few juices for this future life of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have heard Mr. Potts, an explanation of the voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I have already said in the opening presentation of the Group that the Members of the United List will support the law and also say that the relation to this law, which is not ideal, which is likely to achieve or experience any additional additions, will show whether we want to improve the situation or if we want to make it as bad as possible, so that maybe one day later it will be better for us. I mean the relationship between the ruling coalition and the opposition. It's an unconscionable way of doing things. And at this point, it seems to me that it would be really useful, but the donkeys have minimal corrections in the anti-corruption system, and this law certainly gives them, at least minimal ones. However, I believe that, and we have all said, we will have to supplement the criminal law, to complement in particular the conduct and conduct, to complement the specific behaviour of people in these institutions, only without the desire to take this slowly, step by step, we will not go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Brace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Well, after all that the government representative has said today, it is clear that this law will not solve the issue of corruption in Slovenia, but will provide only five new functionalities and so many others, 20 employees, that the country will stand for so much and so much, the effects will not be any more. This is not a fight against corruption at all, this is just a matter of cutting off some obligation to the public's visa, perhaps even to the international public, and it is said, "We have organs, we have regulations and so there will be no corruption." In fact, the situation is completely different. This law will create a bureaucratic apparatus, which will cost a lot, will have no effect and cannot be by the very nature of the thing, as the law states. It is further more than obvious that this law is in direct contradiction with public administration reform, as it creates new bodies, expands the number of employees, expands the number of officials and, of course, we cannot promise much from this. This National Assembly has supported the reform of the public administration, as it will be today - I have no doubt that you will vote - but of course it will take a step back. And since this is not the only regulation, it is clear evidence that this reform of public administration will, of course, experience the same fate as many others have already. But most of us obviously want to, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] because it does not want to have effective public administration, because it is better to have fog, vague relations, unclear relations. [[...]] The answers that we have heard from a government representative today show exactly or only confirms what he says. In short, I will not support this, and because I announced today that we will agree on this in the Group of Members, my colleagues will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you. That's all I'm gonna say. Because, say, Mr Kremjar said it nicely before, but he is yours, or, say, there, from that group, it is you at home to consider how you have, he said nicely that we have so much existing legislation and so beautifully written that it is only necessary to respect and everything is arranged. And that's actually true. He's right. He's absolutely right. We do not really need new laws in this area. Now, if we want someone to like us again, I don't know what we're doing and we're creating some controversy and people's hope that we're going to settle all these issues. No, no, no. These are false promises made to millions of people by this power. Mr Penko has also said well, criminal sanctions are thousands, everything is written down, no one is making it happen. I beg you kindly, until we punish what I said earlier, who does not wish to impose sanctions against the person who has committed a corrupt act or anything else in this regard, for so long there will be nothing. We do not sanction those who should implement sanctions - how should we sanction them? Only by withdrawing them are we punishing them for not doing their job and so on. We're not gonna do this or you. No, no, no. It doesn't make sense. It's a waste of time. It's money. 400, 300 million money we're gonna throw away again, and it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I will not be able to vote in favour of this bill for a number of reasons. If this law contained some points which were then listed as draft for the national programme, I would certainly accept it. But that's not the case. I'm going to point out one thing where there's great damage done to our country and to our people and the government doesn't change anything. I will read from page 61, which says: "Accepting the objective and politically impartial functioning of the Official Council in order to effectively ensure solely meritocratic employment and promotion of public servants." I have repeatedly warned here that a young Slovenian does not have the opportunity to get a seat in the state administration unless he comes in one ready-made uniform. This is also true when accepting applications for Ad futura and so on. It's a good idea to think about it. This is a great damage to all Slovenians. Not just those who don't get a job, but those who get it that way. Finally, another note that he sometimes adopts good marriages is not good if he does not have a spirit. And that is the spirit that our laws sometimes fail to show, and that is what happens only in conductive democracies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. We will do as I said in the presentation earlier this morning in the parliamentary group. We estimate that the proposed law is a good basis for making good decisions on the basis of these solutions by procedure. Well, that's a good basis. When the law is examined by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we believe that it will have comments on a number of articles. Also from a nomo technical point of view. There are also some conceptually delicate solutions in the law. This law will get a lot of amendments in the procedure. The Group of Ambassadors will participate constructively and substantively in proposing these amendments. We hope that today the majority will be in favour of moving the process forward. We also wish to join the opposition in further proceedings in this project. Then this law will also have greater legitimacy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Me and my colleagues in New Slovenia will vote against this law, because it is believed that it is the wrong basis for solving these problems. And the more wrong it could not be, because we have already found that the key problem in Slovenia is the phenomenon of corruption, the lack of documented political will on the part of our authorities. And now I'm going to add something, because I refuse, I firmly reject the arguments that I've heard now in explanation of voice, czech, because this is to be expected, the opposition wants to show black things, but in fact we're just going to move forward with a little step when we sort this out. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have been taking small steps for a long time, but our government will not move. Another example of your consideration of why our government is not interested in this. The Public Procurement Act created the Public Procurement Office and commissioned them to raise bureaucrats to understand and implement the law. Do you know how many programs the Public Procurement Office has learned? Nothing, nothing, nothing! That's it, that's our problem. The problem is that we adopt laws that are toothless. Then we write a decision to have the government prepare a prosthetic, but the government does not move. That's why we're still drooling, just like we're dripping, and we have the country we have! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We can move to a vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting! There are 64 of us present, 44 votes against 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the law will be allocated to the homework body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the government very much for its cooperation. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of paragraph 83 of the Law on State Administration relating to the second paragraph of Article 103 of the Law on Administration. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 83 of the Law on State Administration relating to the second paragraph of Article 103 of the Law on Administration shall not be adopted. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting! There are 65 of us present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for examining this authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with break 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - WITH THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE 218. Member of the Buildings Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 218 of the Buildings Act shall not be adopted. We are voting on this. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore the procedure for examining this authentic interpretation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda item 1 9 - to consider the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Maribor. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments and additions to the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor. A voice explanation, Mr. Moge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I will certainly vote in favour of this decree. At the same time, I would like to say here my sincere thanks for the contribution, woven, to the adoption of the decree of the medical lobby in the National Assembly, gentlemen. [[alphabetical]] , Tsukatiju, Gasparini, Merlu and Podobnik, because they have always supported these things; all members and members of the committee, you, the leader of the parliamentary club, who you have been for this idea from the beginning, and you, respected colleagues and colleagues who will vote in favour. I'd be very happy if we were all in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting! There are 63 of us present, 63 votes against none. [[Let's hear it.]] [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 20. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO A DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE Lease IN A EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK UP TO THE SCHEDULE OF 34 MILLION EUROS FOR THE FINANCING OF RAIL PROJECTS, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word in order to further explain the bill? I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, mag. Anton Zunich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a loan law with the European Investment Bank up to €34 million to finance railway projects. In the case of transport infrastructure providing reliable and cost-effective transport of goods and passengers, it is of paramount importance for each country and an important factor in general economic development. Therefore, part of the European transport policy measures is also aimed at improving transport infrastructure. In order to modernise transport infrastructure and to remove bottlenecks that allow for smooth and secure movement of passengers and goods, the European Community allocates substantial financial resources in the form of various programmes each year. One of the programmes is the Financial Instrument Ispa, which provides financial assistance to candidate countries for investment in environment and transport infrastructure between 2000 and 2006. The recipient of these funds is also the Republic of Slovenia. Funding is carried out by providing part, most of the funds from the Ispa programme, but it is partly necessary to provide resources from own resources. The following projects will be financed by the Impa funds and by today's potentially adopted law, which will allow for a later signed EIB loan agreement. It is about increasing speed on the Ljubljana-Zidani Bridge-Maribor route, the first and second stages.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u191	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Thank you very much. Mr. Zunich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u192	The second project, the renovation of the Cross Peak with the reconstruction of the line from the station Poljčana to the kilometre 564 plus 860 and the reconstruction of the tracks, number 1 and 2 at the station Ponikva, at the railway station Zidani Most-Maribor. And it's also about upgrading the signal-safety devices on the Divača-Koper track. The bill's principal proposal and the main solutions to the bill state that it is actually a favourable loan. This is a favourable interest rate and for other conditions, and we therefore propose that the law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? No, no, no. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Ivan Mamić will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome all present. I told the Infrastructure Committee the last time that history repeats itself, and I'll say it here. History repeats itself, so that every year we become more and more indebted, either as a guarantee or directly this year. Otherwise, there's no difference. The state will pay. I remember that in 2001 we owed 6 billion 250 million, in 2002 for 8 billion 250 million, this year for 12 billion and a half. Now there are these 34 million euros, which means around 8 and a half billion, or 21 billion this year. So everything that's the capital and what's going to be the interest and so on and so forth is approaching the figure of 60 billion. I can be fixed by those who get to know these things better. And now none of this is about investment. So we only have maintenance because it's said, it's written in a few lines. Is that, say, 34 million euros today that you're going to accept, is that too little, or is that too much, or how much is it? Why 34? Why there were eight and a half, why there were 12 and a half and so on. And also to my question, which I asked on the Infrastructure Committee, to explain to me a little bit, how did it get to 12 billion and a half and no answer? That's exactly what you could say 20, or just 3 and I don't know what. It's supposed to be so opaque, so blurry. Madam Members, vote, the government is right, that is how it thinks and that is the end. This is a first-class demagogy, please. From the national programme for railways, no speech, not a word has been written since I've been in this Parliament. Some even claim we have a national programme. Where is he? Even if it's written in 1998, or if I don't know what year, if it's just a dead letter on paper, it's nothing, please. Maybe it's even better that we don't have a national program. Why? Because maintenance would be once again as much as we are now holding up a single maintenance loan. Those people who work on railways, I believe they have to live off something, so they get paid. Only if the railroad doesn't create anything, that we just furry to exist, and that we have so much cost every year, I don't know, man would say, "let's cut them all." I am against shutting down clearly, but I am in favour of doing something systemic in this area once, because we need railways, because it has been proven that railways are very rational communication. Yeah, and we only have one loser. We had a referendum on railways not long ago. And after those famous letters that came last, or I'll say last day, because it was a vote of silence, to vote against. And that was purely misleading because people thought that they would achieve that they wouldn't sell the railroad. So it was written that people did not understand it, and with a narrow result it went through to own it. Now that we've all come to terms with it, we've only got more credit in the same year. Please don't talk to me about favourable loans. No credit is favourable because we had a favourable credit for the Ribnice- freeway, and we waited ten years for it to be used. This is exactly the contradiction our authority has. Please, what's good for us? Are we going to repay the loans? We won't. He'll be my grandson. I may be a bit of an older generation. I calculated that if I had [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank God if I have grandchildren to pay back what their great-grandfather owed. [[...]] Because he won't know that I was the opposition and that I voted against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u196	It's irresponsible for our future family. Please. And now that we're at it [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u197	Mr. Mamić [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u198	Why the government didn't, even though we've been warning them for so long, I'm running out of time, I just thought of a final thought. Why didn't they analyze it, and they said, in this column, there's so much and so much, 3 billion is for this, for this, one five, six indents to write, at least enough to know. Otherwise, for the consumption of so many billions, there should also be one piece of paper to see what's inside. And please, you're deceiving me, if you say so, let me back it up. I'll go against it, me and my client.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Mamic. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u200	Respectable present. True, they hold to the words spoken or presented by the speaker before me. Today we are accepting budgetary commitments, but we do not know what the budgetary obligations are, how long these commitments will be burdened by the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, or how this will affect deficits or public debt, nothing. In this country, unfortunately, we don't even know the structure of the deficit, let alone know how such actions, which are unfortunately taken with our left hand, will really affect the image of public finances in our country. In addition, we estimate in the National Party that the proposal is presented with two shortcomings. First of all, it would be understandable to borrow a loan, to be paid by the person who directly owns it or uses it. It is therefore reasonable to ask, and I know that there were some words on the committee about the level of the use of Slovenian railways, their infrastructure. The fact is that today’s uses are almost gone or are of a symbolic kind. We will update the railways, after which trains will start to operate in foreign ownership from 1.5. Is Slovenia going to make so much sense and raise its benefits? Maybe even with that, I'll give you a piece of the debt, I'll pay you back. The first question is addressed to government representatives or legal advocates. And I think that the third part of the bill, the price of the financial implications of the bill for the state budget and other public funds, is very rigorously prepared. In the whole law, and although we are talking about the law behind us, only a basic loan of EUR 34 million is written only: the funds to repay the loan will be provided to the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of annual quotas intended for the payment of Western liabilities, by loans leased abroad. I mean, we should be aware that we're not talking about a small amount. And I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should familiarize us with all transfers that take place around this amount. I don't think we should be putting extra pressure on the budget in this way because some secretary of state said - are you a secretary of state or not? - because he said it was a nice loan. That's not a guarantee. We do not know if it is a favourable loan, we do not even know how to pay it and we do not know or know the vision of the infrastructure of the Slovenian Railways or their system. There are too many unknowns in this area and in the Slovenian National Party, precisely because of these questions we will not support the bill. However, it would make sense for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to come back with a proposal for a law, to justify it more strongly, to say what is the use, what will be the vision of these Slovenian railways, whether the existing tracks are so bad that they will someday be avoided by foreigners when transport is carried, or whether this is true or not? Of course, the most important question is: What will be the impact of this leased loan on public finances? At the annual budget, we see that public finances are always in worse shape. This is how we today accept a few million-euro commitment on the nose without too much discussion. I personally estimate that you make such a decision too easily. The Slovenian national party does not want this responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Yuri Malovre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your word. Our parliamentary group will support the above-mentioned law with both amendments worth Article 1. And as the Ministry of Finance said, this credit is quite favourable, given that countries like Slovenia, this Ispa, from 2000 to 2006, provide financial assistance for investments from 75 to 85% and that the rest must be provided by the home country. All I'd say to the speaker before me is that with the railroad law, we set up a railway agency. Secondly, that we have accelerated the reorganisation of Slovenian railways. The law has also made the state responsible for railway infrastructure and is also financed by the state and, of course, also repays credits. It is true that the legislative and legal service found that this investment was not mentioned in the national programme, but it was in this national assembly that we withdrew the national programme last year and put it here in 1994 and in 1998 that we agreed on a number of things. However, this national programme is being monitored on the financial side somewhere around 15%. I have to say, given that I am a railway by profession, I am a little afraid that if we do not modernise our tracks, they will slowly get around us, so the Italians, so the Austrians, so the Hungarians, because they are already speeding up your lines and then, over the years, modernisation will not help us. We need to modernise both the lines and the signal safety devices in order to ensure railway safety. And of course, to increase the so-called technical speed, because only in a thin way will we be able to fit into this so-called fifth and tenth corridor, so that the cargo in transit will also run through Slovenia. It is for these reasons that our parliamentary group will also support this amendment law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Branko Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In our parliamentary groups, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that lending is essentially a very responsible job. Even in this case, when we hire a loan of about twenty-eight billion or eighteen billion, I don't know, something like that doesn't matter 10, 18 or 20, something like that, if we were to act responsibly, of course, we should make a very precise investment programme and all the other documents that, of course, we could rightly say that we took a loan that would have some real effects, economic effects, economic effects. We should also know, of course, how we will return these loans, when we will return them, and so on. But unfortunately, we have found on the Committee on Finance that the government, although it is an extremely modest law, two, three articles, has great difficulty preparing such a proposal as transparently and without error. Our legislative and legal service has pointed to a whole range of shortcomings. Most of us have tried to remove the majority on the committee itself, but with the subsequent report, the legislative and legal service has again found that certain things have not yet been regulated as they should have been. And then once again a coalition, of course because of the procedure that makes it possible for it to do so, gives a new amendment that improves the text. Please, you're not children! You're not kids. You have all the support, all the information support that no one in our country has in our country like you have in the government, but you are not able to bring together your lawyers, experts, doctors, engineers and whatever else I know with whom everyone is; thousands of you are there, but you cannot bring together four or five articles of law that would be credible and that should be supported in the National Assembly. We have also agreed that you will deliver additional documents because they are missing, and we have said that until the meeting of the National Assembly you will give some additional documents. I didn't see them. Where are they? I didn't get them. Now, if we got them to the offices, I'm sorry. Besides, I was checking the mail as much as I could, but I just didn't see them. In short, we are not talking about a resolution on the national programme for the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure, which should have been in the national assembly a long time ago. Now you promise it will be this year - you promised it three years ago or two years ago. In short, it seems to me that we're putting out fires. I know that the resources in the railway infrastructure are extremely necessary, and we all know that. Only now is the question whether these investments that we are currently making are in fact so weighed that they will first have the greatest effects, capital and all others, inflows, revenues, and whether these investments are really needed to cover a hole that, due to the failure to invest in the past, is today in a difficult situation to enable Slovenian railways to be competitive with the European market that will open up any moment in this area. In short, we need to make criticism at the expense of the government because of the very poorly completed parallel documents that would be judged alongside. We do not want anything other than to really come with comprehensive documents to the National Assembly, on the basis of which we could - on the basis of the annual plans and then all other plans - plan in the long term how to train Slovenian Railways in the long term. In short, of course, we cannot oppose such a law, given the knowledge of the situation, but the criticism of the government certainly deserves in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Mr Lenko will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister and other members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members! My implementation or our position is not as critical as was expressed here by the opposition. Indeed, rail infrastructure is far behind compared to rail infrastructure in the European Union. In view of the rapid approximation of the full membership of the European Union and the rapid integration into the railway system in the acceding countries, which will create integration into the trans-European rail network and allow the provision of quality and user-friendly services, we believe in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group that we are hunting for the last train, the rain enables modernisation and thus greater competition of Slovenian rail transport, which is necessary when the market is liberalised. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that by transferring freight transport to railways, we can strongly help to reduce environmental pollution, which is also a requirement imposed on us by the Kyoto Protocol. Therefore, it is encouraging news that a number of new track products are being introduced, which aim indirectly to achieve this objective. By investing in railway infrastructure, we can make a key contribution to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. We agree, however, that the legislative and legal service has already pointed out that it is necessary to specify explicitly which facilities will be used under this law, as national priorities for the development of the railway network need to be defined. In the DeSUS Group, we also support the decision of the Infrastructure Committee calling on the government to draw up a new national programme. As indicated in the existing national programme, transport is a factor that directly affects the promotion or limitation and the inhibition of the development of society as a whole. Railway infrastructure is an important part of this system. We know that a number of railway lines do not fit in terms of capacity, they do not meet European criteria. Slovenia has a favourable railway position and needs to be properly exploited. That is why our parliamentary group will support this bill's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Comrade Lenko. I have another presentation. My friend Štemberger will present the position of Him not? [[...]] Okay. Comrade Janc, then it is your turn to present the position of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group will support the proposed law. Of course, on the basis of this law, several criticisms were expressed, both on the Infrastructure Committee and on the Finance Committee, while it is only necessary to realise that the rail infrastructure sector has been heavily underserved in recent years. I welcome this law, which, in one part, of course or whether the law itself provides for its own participation in joint investment investments for the four proposed sections or four proposed projects, which are, of course, to be co-financed by the funds of Ispa and, of course, this effort of Slovenia to obtain EUR 27 million from Ispa. The warnings given by my forerunners, of course, must be taken seriously. It is worth noting, in particular, the unmanaged national programme for the development of Slovenian public railway infrastructure, which, following the Ministry's assurance, is in preparation and is expected to come to the National Assembly in the autumn. In this document, of course, there are more specific priorities. At this point, however, there are clearly priorities set by the national Iso Strategy. These two documents are not in agreement, so that the amendments proposed slightly more precisely regulate the way these funds are spent and, of course, resolves doubts in the part of whether these funds will be actually used for the projects listed here. Of course, we support the two proposed amendments, and I also propose to the other parliamentary groups that these two amendments, together with the law, support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you very much, colleague Janc. This was the last presentation of the views of the groups. We will now proceed to the debate on the amendment tabled. It was tabled by four groups of Members. This is an amendment to Article 1. I'm putting it in my head. Anyone wants a word about him, or we'll go to the decision. Okay. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the four groups of Members to Article 1. Please check the voting devices. We will vote on this proposal. Please, we're voting. Attention, we're in the middle of a vote! 47 present, 38 for and no one against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. One amendment to Article 1 was adopted. I'm asking qualified candidates if they want to table an amendment? I guess not. The amendments are therefore not tabled, not announced. We need to find consistency. Does anyone have a notice that the text is not harmonised? Nobody. Then we can move on to deciding on the law. We're voting on the law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm interrupting, and you have the floor to explain your voice. Unfortunately, this time I looked around the hall, it's my fault, so first. I saw you first, Comrade Master Visjak. You have the floor to explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I agree with all the debaters that railway infrastructure in our country is underdeveloped, especially underdeveloped for the challenges facing Slovenia in terms of transport by entering the European Community. Surely we are in the important transport area of the future European Community, which will be more than eleven. I think that, of course, this makes every effort by the Government and our countries to modernise infrastructure more than justifiable. However, I am asked: Is borrowing credit the right way to update this infrastructure? Is it not only necessary to update this with budgetary resources without indebtedness and, of course, any other matter may be waived for this purpose? That's what I'm worried about, because these loans, as well as all the other loans, are going to have to be repaid someday. And I am sorry, as a member of the Finance Committee, that the country's strategy in the field of investing all the credits listed, which, of course, are very easily rented in this country. I think we're going to be burdening both the younger generations and the middle-aged generations, and I'm afraid that one day this story is going to end. That is why I am expressing this needy investment in rail infrastructure, this idea that we have eternally on the scale of this debt and investment. We always choose to invest, and in my opinion, we pay little attention to the debt or how we will repay this debt, which increases once and for all. I think it's worth warning at these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u211	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. A colleague of mags. The trifle man now has a word, and then I saw Comrade Marshich's hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. The government surprises us every six months or every year; perhaps this is no longer a surprise; with some credit that the state or railway will rent with the State guarantee. This is mainly about current maintenance, but not about serious investments to modernise the Slovenian railway economy. But the government and the minister informed us at that referendum that if the referendum fell, we would save 150 billion. When we went to watch these funds, 150 billion in the balance sheet, they were gone. We don't know where they went. Maybe it became an extracurricular fund. But they certainly are, if the government has said so. That is why I propose that these funds be drawn from this extraterritorial fund, which we do not know where it is, instead of a credit that would burden the country. Isn't that a good suggestion? This would make the network much more up-to-date, and there would be no burden on the country. Look, don't laugh, if that's true what you promised at the time, then you have to stick to it. I'm sure you don't need that 150 billion for one more falcon or next year's elections, even though we have two. For these reasons, I propose that this project, which you mentioned in this extra-balance sheet sum, be provided with one part of the extra-balance sheet sum and therefore I will not support it, but I will not oppose it, because you have accepted it all yourself - this imported story.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The next one has the floor to explain the voice, not the controversy, Comrade Marsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The fact is that lending often raises the question of whether this is a suitable way to finance any project. In this case, I believe that this is a project that is important not only for inclusion in the fifth transport corridor, but also for Slovenia, to implement the development strategy of the so-called transport and logistics cluster that arises in Slovenia. Slovenia has the opportunity, with its developed rail system and with its Kori port, to become a member of the European Union, as a member of the European Union, a leading transit route for overcrowding, for the needs of the economy of Central European countries. This is one of the important development opportunities for the Slovenian economy, as the activity of the port and logistics has a multiplier effect on the development of the national economy. I don't think there's any doubt about that. And which can immediately earn a billion euros a year from the transit of goods. Given that most of this credit will be aimed at upgrading the Ljubljana-Maribor line and the Divača-Koper signalling devices, which will increase the traffic gap in this direction, I believe that the money that will be hired will be [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] With this credit, I also returned in a short way as I mentioned earlier, with the multiple factor that these tansport links certainly allow. [[...]] That is why I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Comrade Podobnik, you have the floor to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u216	Thank you for saying so, President. I'll support this marriage. However, I would argue with the following, like my colleague Marsich. On Monday, all transport ministers of the Member States entering the European Union presented themselves on the General Policy, Transport and Tourism Committee of the European Parliament. Our Minister of the Presecnik has received very many questions from the Euro Members. The Austrians and the Germans asked him what plans Slovenia has with Kopro, and at the same time the question was raised how Slovenia, in combination with its projects with Van Miert's report, would upgrade the existing third corridor in the field of rail systems. It's a strategic decision, colleagues and colleagues. If we do not watch the Slovenian works of this route ourselves, it will be possible for some to make decisions and give priority to some directions and go around Slovenia. This is a strategically correct decision and let us support it today. This is not an argument, but it is a very up-to-date argument, which also gained its weight in Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u217	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must confess to you that I have great difficulties with this proposal because, on the one hand, I understand or at least try to understand the argument of the Ministry of Finance and Government regarding the relative benefits of this loan vis-à-vis the others which the State is currently renting. The fact, in particular, has warned once again that any debt, the additional indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia at this time is in itself negative, because the government itself has already acknowledged in its reports to this National Assembly that our debt under the Maastricht criteria has not yet reached that extent, but that the servicing of this debt, such as it is now, or if it continues to grow, will be disabled only because we have such a structure of our budget, where we have so much fixed expenditure. It's a government report itself. Of course I agree with that. The fact is that when you talk to us about favourable or unfavourable loans, I would also like to see that once the Slovenian government would explain to us what it sees as a benefit, after deciding that it is mainly in the domestic market, which is obviously more expensive than abroad. So these are all questions, indeed, of a systemic nature, which our government is flatly presenting in this national assembly. The questions raised to you by fellow Members and Members of Parliament, gentlemen, are legitimate, but unfortunately there are no answers from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u219	My friend, Dr. Bayuk, there will be no misunderstanding. It's not the government's responsibility not to answer your question, but mine not to give him a word. On the contrary, we are now in the field of vote, and I can't give him that word either. So it'll be clear. Anyone else? My friend Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u220	I really don't want to delay the session, but I think we all mix two stories too often and too easily. I believe that there are 1000 segments in Slovenia that need to be restored in one way or another. Of course, railways are one of them. What a fellow liberal democracy said is true, but ask, or the other side of the story is the source. Is this the best source for the Republic of Slovenia? I'm guessing it's not. The credit is not a good source, especially since we know that 100 billion Slovenian tolars lie in Dresden Bank from the purchase of the New Ljubljana Bank. And let once the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the interest of this country, state how it works with our money in foreign banks. And this is a mistake today's possible positive decision. But, of course, you have decided to support the proposal. Once again, this is an irresponsible decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u221	We'll decide on the law. We're voting! May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. We're voting on the law. 59 present. 45 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] The law has been passed. And the point is closed. We're at 21. Agenda items - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Secret Data Act. It's a matter of making an emergency decision. The draft law was tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure. Are government representatives already present? They want a word? Please, Secretary of State Molan, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The Secret Data Act was adopted two years ago and some events took place at the time of implementation requiring adjustments or amendments and additions. And this amendment and amendment is before you today. This year, an initiative was launched to assess the constitutionality and legality of certain provisions, in particular Article 25 thereof, with regard to the conduct of security checks and the Constitutional Court, by a decision, suspended the implementation of this Article. This year, they were also inspected by NATO security authorities and the European Union, who made it known that they were not satisfied with the way in which security checks were carried out or with the legal solution of security checks in Slovenia, as they did not provide a guarantee that security checks would ensure that persons who should not have access to classified data were excluded. In view of these warnings and the fact that we are entering Euro-Atlantic links at the beginning of the next year, and from this point of view it is imperative that all those involved in the work of the various working bodies in these associations need permission to access classified data, we have prepared an amendment to the law which affects in particular the field of security verification. We are introducing a stage security check, namely a basic and extended security check by means of enquiries. This is essentially a concept that is represented by NATO and is exactly the same as the concepts of security verification in most European countries. In the law we also save the national security authority as the generic term we use. Therefore, the current Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia replaces classified information with a generic concept of a national security authority, which can, after a decision, be anyone, at the moment this is the office, but it is not necessarily that this name of the Office remains in the future. Due to the possibility of change, we have introduced a generic concept, but we have given it powers, which are also insisted upon by the NATO security authority. In view of the changed way of security checks, we have extended the circle of authorities carrying out security checks. So far, this has been done by the Ministry of the Interior’s special service for all civil servants, with the exception of the Sova employee and the Ministry of Defence. From now on, in particular as a result of this extended security inspection, we are also empowered by law to carry out security checks for police personnel. Which is also consistent with the provisions of the Police Act. The next novelty that is still proposed is a change in the deadlines for replacing the secrecy markings for documents that have been created in the past and thus the recovery of the situation that could have occurred because the documents are on different media and it is impossible for everyone to change the secret code at once. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendments of the home working body, the Committee on Internal Policy, and we propose that the law be supported and that the full representation of representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in international organisations be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The law was also dealt with by the competent committee. Does the committee rapporteur, Comrade Wolf, want a word? Can I help you? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u224	Very short-term president, or president. The Internal Policy Committee considered the draft law at its 37th emergency meeting, on 25.09.2003. In the introduction, the representative of the applicant explained the reasons for the amendment. In a discussion that then took place, members and members, as well as representatives of the legislative and legal services, drew attention to certain open issues. On the basis of these issues, the Committee has adopted its amendments to Articles 4, 8, 12, 13 and 18, which are reflected in the report and which propose to the Committee of the National Assembly that it adopt the law in this submitted form.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Committee Rapporteur, Comrade Wolf. We will now hear presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. I have before me a list of those who will present them. First of all, colleague Majda Zupan, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. The Government, as a candidate, wishes to amend the law on classified information as a matter of urgency, because otherwise, if there is no urgent procedure, there could be a difficult remedial effect on the functioning of the State. Among the reasons why such serious consequences occur, the Government provides for the suspension of all security clearance procedures by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The security of the State and the fulfilment of international obligations, particularly towards NATO, which would have a negative impact on the functioning of the Ministry of Defence, as well as on the credibility and reputation of our country, would not have contributed to this situation. In the framework of the pre-accession negotiations for NATO membership, our country has committed itself to align its legislation with NATO's minimum standards by 31.12.2003 at the latest, which is the establishment of an appropriate system [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u227	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u228	the handling of classified information. [[...]] This is the protection of classified data or the security check of persons, prior to the issue of an authorisation for access to classified information, to which Slovenia has been expressly alerted by the NATO and European Union inspectors. Only persons who have been authorised to access data at a certain level of confidentiality have access to classified information. According to the proposal, by means of a security check, which may be basic, extended or extended security checks carried out by the Special Service of the Ministry of the Interior of Sova, the Ministry of Defence, and the new police, it is necessary to determine whether a person is reliable enough, loyal and credible to have access to classified information. In the event of refusal of the authorisation, the verified person may lodge a new complaint, which is decided by the Commission for Complaints from the working relationship with the Government. For each type of safety check, a questionnaire following standards as established in NATO and the European Union must be completed. The content of the questionnaire is intended to provide the necessary information on the identity of the person, the personality character and the circumstances for the occurrence of any problems. The questionnaire, which we have in the proposal itself, makes me think about the basic questionnaire is interesting. We discussed it quite a bit in the Internal Policy Committee. In our parliamentary group, we would also point out that it would be right to include, for example, membership in secret services before the 16th point. That would also be information that would probably be interesting for NATO. In a specific questionnaire, however, the fourth point is interesting, which discusses the characteristics and circumstances of a person’s life. We ask ourselves: What qualities are these, or sex, faith, homosexuality? The prerequisite for accessing classified information from NATO has ensured that the national security authority has been duly verified by the person making access to it. The national security authority shall issue a certificate on the basis of a national authorisation issued. Article 43 provides for a new government to designate a national security authority to monitor the implementation of the law and other regulations. We find it interesting that, of course, Nate's great concern that classified data should not be leaked through the old Udbov canals in the transition countries. The question is how to ensure that the confidential data to which the Eastern European countries also have access do not flow into the hands of the people of the communist era. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] In our parliamentary group, we are pleased that Slovenia's information system will actually have to submit to NATO's ally and the flow of data through channels such as used to be, can no longer be tolerated, especially after the fatal 11th September when the global anti-terrorist war began.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u229	Comrade Zupanov, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u230	Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u231	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u232	Well, in this direction, we'll also make decisions in support of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm not that excited, and in our party, no, not above this law. After all, this law is a poor copy of the compilation of American and European laws, thus, of course, the main focus on NSA acts or "National Security Authority". We must be aware, however, that we have grown within different frameworks and that we are living in Europe, not in the United States. Therefore, I have a feeling that someone here wants to establish a new third intelligence service, which will be the intelligence service of all intelligence services, because the explanation states: "In the Republic of Slovenia, the tasks of the national security authority are to be carried out by a body designated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." I think that's extremely inappropriate. Then why do we have Owl, and why do we have military intelligence? It is true that Owl does nothing and that military intelligence does little. And neither one nor the other know the most basic data, what Croatia is doing and when Croatia is going to announce or perform a new action that will hit the Slovenes on the head or when something like that will happen again when Mr Drnovšek was brought to dinner by a spy van that no one knew anything about. I am also surprised how Mr Molan spoke about "generic" names for certain things. I don't know what "generic" names are supposed to be generic names for intelligence. I think this is all very funny. I would not go into all the articles, but just by introducing new articles 22a, 22b, 22c, 22d and 22nd, it shows that there is complete nonconsistentness and ignorance and ignorance in the legislative field. Because if they knew how it was going, they'd say, new articles are introduced, and the others are recalculated. At least that's how it works in normal countries, but I don't think we're going to be able to achieve this status for a long time. And if I just take another 6th, where point 14 says "alcohol addiction". According to Kebra’s law, alcohol depends on anyone who once a month also smells a bottle stopper with a drill. Please, what are we going to do here and what are we going to write? Or under point 16 - "Membership or participation in organisations that advocate an unconstitutional change in the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia". Yeah, do you really think that whoever is a member of this organization will surround "I am a member"? It's such an idiotism that we can only meet on those lists when a man enters the United States of America, where he writes, "Do you intend to commit terrorist acts in the United States of America?" Which asshole would say "I do," even if he was going to, he'd say, "No," and we, like "idiots," are following one of those weak and deranged patterns. This points to the again incapacity of the Ministry of Police or the Ministry of the Interior. The inability to understand what this intelligence service is, what the law on classified information means and what verification means, if not otherwise, to look at ourselves and to take samples of the old State Security Service, who knew, knew and controlled these matters, but not to go here and prepare a law with which, of course, we will wave in front of the American and the NATO Pact and boast - see for ourselves that we have passed your law. In short, the law sucks and the Slovenian National Party will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u235	Thank you very much. She's a magician's colleague. The passage will present the position for the ZLSD. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have decided to support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Secret Data Act. Two facts have been cited for such a decision or for such a decision. That is, the temporary suspension of implementation laid down in Article 25 of the Secret Security Verification Data Act, which makes it impossible to grant access to classified information. However, the national permit to access classified information is the basis for access to classified information, including those related to NATO and the European Union, and consequently means that our representatives could not be involved in participating in these international links. However, since these are already, so to speak, a fact in view of our state of readiness for inclusion in the coming year, it seemed to us that this was worth taking into account. At the same time, we also felt it necessary to take into account comments that some of the provisions of the existing law on classified information were subordinated, in particular in those matters relating to security checks and the extent to which persons excluded from the law on security checks are excluded. The problems and solutions proposed in the law have been discussed in the parliamentary group and in the committee, so I will not summarize them now, let me just take this brief report back with renewed expectation that the amendments will eliminate at least part of our concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u237	Comrade Petan, I give you my word because my colleague Kangler is not here to present the views of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. So I'm not stalling. Anyway, I've got everything ready, but I'm just gonna say it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this proposal, which was prepared as a final product on the Internal Policy Committee. We support and vote on what has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u239	Comrade Cheligoy is giving up the word. Comrade Skull, you have the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u240	I'll act on my own behalf, if possible, or I'll retire.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u241	No, you can't do that. But you can take advantage of the opportunity on behalf of the club if you have this authority. [[No, no, ……]] The second reading of the amendments was not tabled, so that we can move on - in the light of the fact that we are in the middle of an urgent procedure - to deal with the proposal in the third reading. The amendments have not been tabled, as I said, so they cannot be re-invested at this stage. We're moving on to a decision on the law. I'm not informed that the text would be uncoordinated. If you'd like, colleague Školč, you have a chance to explain your voice now. Otherwise, I see that my colleague Drobnič wants to take advantage of this opportunity. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. I thought it would be Mr. Skolcz who came forward earlier. Look, I'm not going to support the law, because it's not entirely appropriate in all the regulations. Our country will be in a difficult situation. This law does not provide for verification of data relating to cooperation in secret services under the previous communist system. When we send people to such departments within the framework of NATO or another mission, we will soon find ourselves in a difficult situation. It will be found that the person has cooperated, that he may also be associated with fellow workers in other countries, and the plot will be here. Why, for God's sake, didn't you prepare this to be registered? Not only for those who, like colleague Jelinčič, mentioned that you would turn yourself in and accuse yourself of cooperating with some groups that were destructive against the democratic system. I have already mentioned this at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly that when we adopt this law, let us adopt it so that we do not get involved. And that's not settled in the law. No, the lawmaker didn't think of that. Some evading again, and then they'll be tricky, and the Foreign Affairs Committee, closed sessions, and I don't know what else. Yes, it would not be necessary if this law had been regulated with regard to previous services, but in this Slovenia we have not yet arranged it, none of it. The plot will be, I tell you, on the first chance. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's why I won't support this law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u243	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Nobody. Then we'll cross Dr. Bayuk, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u244	It is true that it is difficult in this national assembly to act in such a way as to obtain such important laws in such a way that it prevents a longer debate and is obviously ready for swiftness. But all I want to do is take this opportunity. My friend Jelinčič always has a lot to say about the United States. One correction for the magnetogram, he talked about NSA as the National Security Administration, that's for sure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u245	There's no controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u246	Thank you very much. [[...]] That's not a controversy, that's an explanation. There's a lot to talk about, but it turns out there's very little to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u247	Whatever reference to the names of colleagues and colleagues cannot be replicated, it is not possible. Please, colleague, you have the floor to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I will abstain from this law, which, of course, is not, you will say, some kind of decision. It is difficult to vote against because the law needs to be amended, and to regulate certain things, to vote in favour, but it is impossible because solutions that are completely unequivocal are too clear. This will result in many complications, who is trustworthy, and who is not trustworthy. If we had any broader discussion, which I will say, this reorganisation of decision-making in the National Assembly in some way, I will say, impossible, then, of course, would defend, I will say, trust worthy, according to our judgment, not only because of these external requirements, it cannot be. There can be no one who is for any reason, any document marked by any degree of confidentiality [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I gave it away. [[...]] On the other hand, I would like to check the possibility that even in this congregation, in previous references, not all those who are, I will say, in the previous system, would not be worthy of trust, otherwise act as a loyal system in the sense that they are at large [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They're taking out internal enemies. [[...]] This is contrary to what caused these organizations, in which we are about to sink, to form. And contrary to what I'm about to say to myself, I'm honestly taking 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u249	Thank you very much. My friend Potts, did you want a word? No, no, no. Okay, then we can decide. Please, we will vote on the law. We're in the middle of a vote. May I have your attention, please? 53 present, 40 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Poti 4.]] I take it the law has been passed. This also concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to Ratification, first to the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the government of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation in combined transport. Does the government want a word as a proponent? Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Foreign Policy Committee? No amendments have been adopted by the competent committee and there is no debate on them. We are moving on to the third reading and will decide on this proposal for a law on ratification. We're voting! Please note, we are in the middle of a vote on the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement. 52 present, 49 for and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and this item is concluded on the agenda. We will decide on the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of Protocol No. 13h to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms concerning the abolition of the death penalty in all settings. Here too is the government's candidate. The Foreign Policy Committee has considered the proposal. No amendments have been tabled. We are moving on to the third reading and decision-making of the law. We're voting! We are voting on a proposal for a law on this ratification. 50 in attendance, 45 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] The law has been adopted, the point is closed. At 24. We have a defence and a decision on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the protection of non-proliferation in Europe. The proposer is the government, the committee has discussed this, the amendments are not tabled, so we will now decide on the law. Can we make a decision? The National Assembly will vote on the law. Please vote. We vote on the law of ratification. May I have your attention, please? Order! 49 present, 48 for and none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. 25. The agenda item contains a defence and a decision on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites. The proposer is the government, the Foreign Policy Committee has discussed this, there is no amendment, there is no debate. The decision on the law is in front of us. Anybody want a word to explain their voice? Nobody. We decide on the law. We vote on the law of ratification. 53 present, 52 for, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. 26. The point has a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Second Protocol to the 1954 Hague Convention on the protection of cultural goods in the case of armed property. Anyone want a word from qualified debaters? Then we'll decide on the law. We're voting. We are voting on a proposal for a law on ratification. 53 present, 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been passed. And the point is closed. At 27. We are dealing with the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Convention on the Safety of Persons of the United Nations and of the Accompanying Persons. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[Nobody.]] No amendments have been tabled. We're at the third reading and decision-making of the law. We're voting. We vote on the bill. 54 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. 28. The agenda item shall give rise to a defence and a decision on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the European Convention on Film Production. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? Just a minute. Of the qualified debaters, you're not registered, so I can't give you a word. You have not signed up as a representative of the Group of Members. That's how we go about making decisions. You want to explain your voice? That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The European Union does not have much regulation in the field of culture. In fact, it has only one directive, and because of this, it has several measures of conventions within the Council of Europe, which are, in fact, most at risk and at the greatest impact of the other continent. They are correcting those dangers that can lead to the loss of cultural diversity in Europe. In this regard, it is also worth welcoming the European Convention on Film Co-production, perhaps with some sadness, that it has only happened now, because we are entering within that circle of countries that have decided to join forces, as I have already said, the higher-a-vis economic overpowers of the American continent. After his independence, the Slovenian film found itself in complete darkness. The first government, or first ministries, killed him in bankruptcy, deprived him of his breathing, deprived him of his resources, infrastructure, and, after only a few years, faced renaissance. But despite his great recognition in the world right now, however, as it is and in the way it is organised, because it is a very, very expensive production, he himself will not be able to counter the economic and other logics that apply, not only in Europe, but mainly in the wider world. Therefore, Slovenians can be found in that field that connects us in the European space. That is why it is first of all extremely strong and extremely enthusiastic to work in the field of Eurimages and, above all, to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by this European Convention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We'll decide on the law. We're voting. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. 57 present, 49 for and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been adopted, the point is closed. Yes, please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u252	Mr President, today's meeting is obviously going to take a long time. However, at one point earlier, we agreed on the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor that this is a great day for Slovenia. Mariborski, interested, is a true rector and Mariborians have prepared us to toast this great day for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u253	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u254	And I think that it's not necessary to wait until midnight, but to suspend the session for half an hour and toast [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u255	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u256	and thus finally resist the nonsense of the law of Kebra [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u257	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u258	that we must not drink to the day of statehood and to the great events. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u259	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u260	I think that this exception should be made and I propose that we vote, or that you approve a half-time break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u261	Comrade Jerovšek. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I don't accept your motion of procedure. First of all, we're not very far from the end of the session. If we make a concentrated decision, I suppose, in ten minutes or fifteen, we will also conclude a meeting. Secondly, the reason you state is not relevant to the suspension of the sitting. We'll move on to 29. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Summer Agreement on the Financing of the Specific Accessibility Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development in the Republic of Slovenia between the Commission of the European Communities in the name of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Only when you explain your voice will you get the word. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] So, before the decision, colleague Jelinčič, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already ratified this annual Sapard funding agreement for 2002, but already the Ministry of Agriculture has made a major mistake. Indeed, this Sapard Agreement contains provisions whereby the States Parties may draw on financial resources for emergency situations such as natural disasters, droughts and similar things. This agreement states that it is possible to recover up to 80% of the costs incurred by drought. The Republic of Slovenia itself covered the severe conditions caused by drought and the already modest budget, with an even deeper hole in and out of the budget. Otherwise, and also in the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal for a law, but I suggest that the Minister of Agriculture, however, use this option and get some funding from Europe for the Republic of Slovenia. Don't be afraid to ask him not to be afraid to present him where he could get something, and let them do it in advance. I hope now that the change is in sight, what's better. Above all, our government, at least some ministries in the field, should wake up and get money from Europe where it can be obtained. This is how all other accessions to the European Union do it, Slovenia is the only one who does not take advantage of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u263	Comrade Juban. Comrade Jerovšek, you have no word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this bill. This is a law that is formal in the third year of the pre-accession period for agriculture and provides not a lot of resources. It's a billion, two, which is what it's meant to be. While we can slightly extend the beneficiaries for these purposes compared to the events that took place this year, they are basic accidents, but they are nothing because the total number of events is ten times higher than the available funds that we will vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u265	I don't see a desire to explain my voice anymore. Then we move on to the decision of the law. We're voting. Peace in the hall! 56 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been adopted and this point has been completed. Well, now I'm going to ask for your attention by the end of the session. I believe that we will move quickly from decision to decision and I ask your attention in the vote. We'll go to 30 first. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF LEGISLATION. These consolidated texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and approved by the assembly without discussion. First of all, we will move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We vote, we are in the middle of a vote, I ask for attention and peace in the Chamber. 56 present, 47 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[1 versus.]] We've confirmed this text. We will decide on the decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Criminal Procedure Act. We're voting. 54 in attendance, 44 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Two against.]] We've confirmed the official purified text. I propose the same decision for the officially consolidated text of the Banking Act. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We're in the middle of a vote. Banking Act. Confirmation of official purified text. Please. 54 in attendance, 44 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Two against.]] Copy that. Proposal for a decision to confirm the officially purified text of the Act on Pre-lawed Drugs. We're voting. 55 present, 47 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Two against.]] This consolidated text is adopted. Let's move on to the decision on the purified text of the chemicals law. We're voting! It's a chemical law. 55 present, 48 for and two against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] This decision has been confirmed. A further decision on the officially purified text of the Cosmetic Products Act. We're voting! Cosmetic products. 55 present, 43 for and 3 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] The decision is adopted. We have a proposal for a decision, a formal consolidated text of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 and 2004. We're voting! Confirmation of purified text. 55 in attendance, 44 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Free six.]] It's been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision, and the official text of the police law is confirmed. We're voting! Police law, text purged. 49 in attendance, 39 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] Copy that. We have a proposal for a decision on the purified text of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts. We're voting! Parental protection and family benefits, we are in the middle of a vote. 54 in attendance, 46 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] Copy that. Cleared out the text of the War Veterans Act. We are voting on a decision to confirm the official consolidated text of the War Veterans Act. 53 present, 42 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] Copy that. Decision approving the official consolidated text of the Foreign Exchange Act. We're voting! I'm going to ask for a little more attention! Peace in the hall. Once again, we will decide to confirm the official text of the Foreign Exchange Act. We're making a decision! We're making a decision, please. 56 present, 47 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[1 versus.]] Copy that. Five more of those conclusions await us. First, on the consolidated text of the Road Transport Act. We're voting. The Road Transport Act. 51 present, 43 for and 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Two against.]] Roger that. Proposal for a consolidated text of the Kindergarten Act. We vote, the law on kindergarten. 52 in attendance, 44 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Two against.]] Copy that. Law on Foreign Affairs, Cleared-up Text. We vote, the law on external matters, the purified text. 52 present, 46 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Two against.]] Copy that. Two more conclusions. First, the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, the Cleared-up Text. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 47 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[6 against.]] Copy that. A final decision on the purified text of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We're voting. 55 present, 46 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Two against.]] This point is closed. And now we're really at the last, 31. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. We also have a few votes here. May I have your attention, please? I think it's time to go. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly 8 proposals for election to a judicial function. At the courts of six District Courts in the District Court of Ljubljana and Maribor and the higher courts in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does he want a qualified proponent's word? The chairman of the commission? No, no, no. Then we move on to decision-making. First of all, we will decide on the proposal for a decision on the election to judicial office, Mrs Urska Gasperin, to the district court seat of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. We have accepted this proposal. 55 in attendance, 43 in and 4 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] The proposal was adopted. We will decide on the proposal for decisions on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Urška Kusič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. Mrs. Uršek Kusic. May I have your attention, please? 56 present, 46 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] The decision shall be taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Junika Marflak to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. Ms Junika Marflak for the judicial seat of the District Court of Ljubljana. We have taken this decision. 53 present, 44 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] This Decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Matei Papler to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. Mr. Matthew Papler for the court seat in Ljubljana. 56 in attendance, 46 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Valeria Štern to the district court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 56 present, 46 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. Finally, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Janja Žejen to the district court seat in Ljubljana. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? 57 present, 46 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. We will also decide on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Andrej Veseič to the courthouse in Maribor. We're voting. 58 present, 48 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. We've got another decision to make. We turn to the decision of the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs. Slavice Ivanovič Kocelj to the judicial seat of the higher court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 47 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] This Decision is adopted. We are now moving on to a proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Nevenka Tsukolj Mavec from the function of a member of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. A colleague of Kelemin, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has applied for the floor by qualified debaters. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. In the light of this proposal for the resolution or applications submitted by the two Member States or Supreme State Auditors in our Group, there are actually questions as to why these derogations have actually occurred. In one case it is stated that for personal reasons, but in one case it is not indicated for any reason. However, we know from reliable sources that since the implementation of this new law on the Court of Auditors, there have been some strange situations in the Court of Auditors. From reliable sources, we know that these two representatives are leaving because of the unabsorbed situation or the situation in the Court of Auditors. In our Group of Members, we believe that, regardless of the fact that it should not interfere with the work of the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly should be concerned with how the Court of Auditors actually works. For the National Assembly, according to the law it sets out, has the right to know and to intervene in this matter, whether the Court of Auditors functions properly, transparently, fairly, fairly, and whether working relations there are also as they must be, the atmosphere as it must be, and then the results required and needed by the National Assembly for their work are relevant. From reliable sources, it is clear to us that there is tremendous pressure on State auditors to make decisions on individual matters, to give them precise instructions on how they should carry out checks and so on. In short, as long as we have a new law in force, the situation in this area is indeed unsustainable. And this is not only a comment by these two auditors, who are now resigning - of course they did not mention this anywhere - that could also be confirmed by other State auditors. However, because of loving peace and because of the right not to express it, there is actually some strange situation, some strange influence, some external influence on accounting judges, or on top state auditors. And then all we can do is ask ourselves, what are the results that we get in the National Assembly? That's not what anyone's asking. [[It's an ad from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u267	Order! You don't have a word, Comrade Evil. Comrade Kelemin, please. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Please, colleague Kelemin, you have one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u268	I'm sorry. I don't know why Mr. Zląbec is getting so upset here. He's been living on taxpayers his whole life. I don't know what I want.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u269	Please! Please, let's refrain from making statements. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u270	He's had everything from birth to death.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u271	Please! Please, my friend Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u272	In short, in fact, the National Assembly should deal with these issues. However, obviously the majority you have there do not want to discuss these issues, and you do not care much about what information the Court of Auditors gives to the National Assembly. Here too, the elements of corruption and all the other issues that we have discussed are certainly present. If sovereign auditors are unable to carry out their work in a manner consistent with the legislation in accordance with the Constitution, then surely there are also elements of allowing and allowing corruption procedures that we have just discussed. In short, personally and in our Group of Members, we would like to really ask why this is happening in the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u273	We'll decide on the settlement decision. Please, Comrade Jerovšek, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u274	Mr. President, colleagues, colleagues. What's been said now, I haven't dealt with this point, but I've heard, too, about
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u275	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u276	attacks on the independence of decision-making by the Supreme State Auditors. [[...]] This is frightening information, and I propose that these two supreme state auditors be given the opportunity, if they want to explain their move, because this will significantly contribute to the continued functioning of the Court of Auditors. I think the calculus is paralysed. On those, because of the pressure, which is well known, the countries, individual ministries, have committed themselves to the Court of Auditors, and if we are to correct the situation, we must pay extreme attention to the latter at this point. The President of the Court of Auditors could also sit here at such an important point. This is an unserious act and let's break this point and allow us, if they want us, of course, I don't know if they hope and want us. I know this is a dangerous thing to do if they come here, but we have to give them this opportunity, and I ask that we actually give them this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u277	Look, I will not put this proposal to the vote and I will tell you why. This proposal has not now come to the National Assembly and it is not true that no one has addressed it so far. It has been dealt with by the Commission for the term of office. So that even there or here, if there was such a proposal, we could hear the position. I therefore do not believe that this proposal of yours is justified. Please, I explained why. And I ask my colleague, Does he also have a procedural proposal or position? Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u278	Mr President, in the debate on this item on the agenda, Ambassador Kelemina said that one of the reasons for the resignation of the two members of the Court of Auditors could also be that they were under pressure in their decisions. If we go beyond that, like no one has said anything, then I don't know if we're going to act responsibly. The words were spoken here, at a meeting of the National Assembly, I heard them. [[It's an ad from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u279	Peace. No, wait, the business thing has to be formulated so that we don't make any precedents or exceptions. I'm asking for peace in the hall! You have the opportunity as a group to propose a postponement to one of the following meetings. Is that right? And this possibility can be suggested. Why don't you do it? Please, colleague Anderlich, did you want a word? Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u280	I will support this proposal, not because I would like to get rid of one or the other auditor, but simply because it is their right, one and the other - not to advertise twice - to apply, to perform this function and to resign if they so wish. And that's what they did, that's their right. I also believe that this may even be absurd, that the National Assembly must decide on discharge. If someone resigns irrevocably from a function, it means that he no longer wants to do the work. And it'd probably be better. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] This has nothing to do with the rules of procedure, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u281	Peace in the hall! Peace in the hall, Comrade Kelemina!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u282	And because it's really wrong for us to smile here. We have already taken this exercise on the Commission on Elections, and everything has been clarified and also decided. It was a public meeting, it was communicated to everyone, including the two candidates, the President and so on, to be decided on by the Commission, and informed on the agenda of this meeting of the State Assembly today. If you want to discuss the situation in the Court of Auditors, then you have every opportunity to prepare, within the framework of the reports provided by the Court of Auditors, the material you wish to propose, which will be justified and will demonstrate these claims in writing. They will be dealt with by the relevant working body and, if the situation is such, certainly also by the national assembly. However, it is certainly not good, and proudly or in any way, for this national council to say on the average how something extraordinary and extraordinary has happened and that these ladies are now giving up. They have the right, and it is our duty under the law to vote on this. If we don't solve this, we're just gonna have to solve this one time later, but we're gonna cause a problem in the Court of Auditors, because these two guys are irrevocably dropping out, and the new procedure won't, and that would be bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u283	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Each of you, of us, has the same opportunity to apply the rules of procedure. I've already told you what the business option is. If your parliamentary group proposes this, I will first make it available to the parliamentary groups to identify the proposal in three minutes of discussions, if they so wish, and then it is a decision-making. Did you have a procedural proposal, Comrade Jelinčič? Because otherwise there is no way to discuss it, it is closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u284	Yeah. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u285	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u286	But first, I'd like to explain. The fact is that no one takes account of the Court of Auditors in the Republic of Slovenia anyway. The fact is that the negative opinions delivered by the Court of Auditors do not concern anyone or draw any conclusions. The fact is, the ministries with the documents where the Court of Auditors found a lot of irregularities are, in their own words, erasing something. Unfortunately, such matters are happening in the Republic of Slovenia, and I understand the concerns of some fellow Members who do not want this to continue. We are of the same opinion in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, and we feel that if we already have an accounting court, it should be a competent institution, not that, as has already been said, good auditors and honest auditors are fleeing this institution because they cannot work. The Slovenian Parliamentary Group proposes that we hold a debate on this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u287	No, no, no. Such a suggestion, of course, procedure is not relevant and you know it. Please follow the rules of procedure. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Now, first of all, would you like to make this procedural proposal in accordance with Article 74, Comrade Tuckati? Yes, you are making this proposal to submit a decision to one of the Good. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u288	Allow me to explain myself to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u289	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u290	Our Group proposes that the vote under this item be put to the next meeting. However, the explanation is as follows. One member of the Court of Auditors explained that there were personal problems. The other Member did not explain its initiative. There are some clues that there are many things behind that we should be concerned about and we will ask both members of the Court of Auditors to, in so far as they are willing to further explain their resignation. For as many as two out of eight members and two months before the end of the term of office are worrying, we propose that the National Assembly take a decision to vote on this at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u291	This proposal is, like all other proposals in accordance with Article 74, and we will immediately decide on it after they have communicated their views if they so wish. I have to explain this one more time. This proposal has not been tabled in the National Assembly today, it has been decided by the Election Commission and is now before the decision in the National Assembly. However, this proposal is yours in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask, is there a group of Members who would like to explain their vote? On behalf of the LDS Member Club, colleague of the School.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u292	I think we'll make a big mistake if we make this delay. This is not only about this, it is not at all about being able to discuss the situation in the Court of Auditors in this way, as if one of the Members or working bodies were to prepare an appropriate material on this topic. You know that, more or less with rare limitations, we all have the right to be loved and elected and, of course, an integral part of this right is to terminate a mandate. I'm not going to explain the circumstances in this case, because neither is it, I'm going to say, very relevant, but the law is, I'm going to say, so awkward that even when someone resigns irrevocably, we have to take this for granted. Now, of course, I wonder whether it is possible for someone to say that they come out for personal reasons, that we do not believe him or in that case, but we believe Mr Kelemini, who says he has some other information that we do not know. This means that in some ways we are questioning the credibility of one statement and another. The other situation that needs to be said, but not now, about these two names, is that the mandate expires within a few months. A third circumstance is that one of them is also asking for a discharge so that he can register his business activity. We will not do a great service if we postpone it, because we will make it impossible for someone to do what he wants to do, but he cannot do if he is not formally resolved here. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u293	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u294	There is no need for us to discuss this on a mandate-holder's committee. There was much more said than at this time. I regret, of course, that in view of this great interest, you have not read these discussions or asked people who have discussed it, but I warn you about it as well. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That if we postpone this desired resolution, we are interfering with the rights of these two ladies. [[...]] And for that last reason, I'm for us to do it. But if Mr. Kelemina prepares the appropriate material to sign in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u295	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u296	I think we will find a way to discuss this at one of the Committees of the National Assembly. [[...]] It is irresponsible to come here with certain insinuations, I apologize. I'm aware that we're in the middle of some sort of procedural offense, but it's not really possible to demand [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u297	Time's up. I need to see you, too. Excuse me. It's over a minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u298	If you'll allow me one sentence?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u299	That's the last sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u300	Yeah. In essence, it is not possible to request a debate without laying down documents on the basis of which everyone could discuss and assess their credibility. Thank you very much, and I apologize for this violation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u301	Thank you very much. No, you can't procedurally now because we're in the middle of an explanation of the views of the parliamentary groups. No problem, before we go to the decision-making session, I'll give you my word. Did anyone else want it? Comrade Dr. Bajuk, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The mandate-election committee discussed this matter. It was also clear that the law did not require any explanation. It is true, - one Supreme Auditor explained that these are, for her own personal reasons. And the other one has no explanation. I believe that it is true that my colleague, Školč, speaks of interfering with the rights of these candidates, that is to say both who resign, but it is also the right of this national assembly to exercise its duty under the law in the most appropriate manner. I believe that the possibility that we would offer with this would be that at least this candidate, who has not explained her decision, would do so in order to be positive about our decision. Well, we'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u303	Comrade Jerovšek. I will now give you my word, but not for a procedural proposal. For the position of the Group of Members. Please. And don't parliament, please, with whom they can't answer you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u304	On the same subject as Mr. Bajuk. Indeed, even on behalf of our Group of Members, given what Mr Školč said to intervene in personal rights. And we're asking for an explanation as to whether that's true. If we have chosen these persons, according to our business arrangements, I think we also have the right to resolve them, after what our Rules of Procedure provide and allow. And I'm surprised the president of Kviaz is saying that this would interfere with my personal rights. I don't think that's true. We have the right, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, to resolve them with all the provisions that our Rules of Procedure foresee. I'm asking the lawyers to give an interpretation. Is that true?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u305	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u306	Because then, if this is not true, it is the intimidation of other Members. And the impact on their decision is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u307	Explanation of voice, not controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u308	But this is very important. Get the lawyers to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u309	There's no need for that. Look, according to the procedure, a proposal was made. It was discussed by the Commission's decision-making committee, submitted to the assembly for its decision. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u310	If this is not true, it is the intimidation of other Members and the influence on their decision is a violation [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u311	Explanation of voice. Not the controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u312	the basic rule that we are independent. [[...]] Yeah, well, that's very important. To get lawyers to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u313	That's why there's no need. See, according to the procedure, a proposal was made, dealt with by the Commission on Elections, submitted to the assembly for its decision. Here, in accordance with the procedure, Article 74, the proposal was made to postpone the matter to one of the following meetings. If the proposal is adopted, I will do so, otherwise we will decide today. And that's the procedure. Any other parliamentary groups? Don't you? Then we will decide on the SDS's proposal to postpone this decision to one of the future meetings. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Next. [[...]] We're voting. We are voting on this procedural proposal. Peace in the hall! 53 present, 16 for and 34 for. [[The vote was 16.]] [[34 versus.]] This proposal has not received the necessary support, so we will now move to a vote on the proposal for a discharge. Explanation of voice. Comrade Kelemin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u314	Yes, thank you very much. Well, I'll vote against it, of course. Because, of course, certain things cannot be issued, nor can I get the resources from which I receive certain data. That's understandable, but it's definitely-- well, you laugh, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u315	Please, there's no controversy. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u316	However, it is definitely, indeed, the problems in the Court of Auditors in this direction exist and these two representatives of the Court of Auditors had to leave because of the unsustainable situation in the Court of Auditors. [[...]] And it is logical that now the two of them, or any of the others who are employed there, will not give the documentation that Mr Školč is talking about. Because they can't because they're all afraid of you like the devil of a cross. I'm the only one who's not afraid of you because you can't do anything to me. But everyone else is afraid of you and no one will give you any information because they know they'll have to keep working. You're saying that now they're going to get some new activities, they're going to open up. Yeah, well, you'll destroy them if they give you any information. You know, people in our country may not even know what kind of terror is being committed in this country. The Communists have done nothing against what is happening today. Every job, every position, everything is under control, everything is planned. What's here isn't anywhere in the world, I think. I'll try to get this information myself, but if I don't make it, it'll only be because there are no documents in the mob society, of course, there's only money on the table and there's a gun under the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u317	I'm asking for peace in the hall. For most of us, it's the 12th hour here and in the house, but it doesn't excuse us to make statements that aren't appropriate. Comrade Partich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u318	Of course, I will support this decision because, in fact, all these answers have not really convinced me. It has been said that there is an opportunity to put on the agenda with the prepared material the issue of the Court of Auditors, if not before we name the new ones here, and I would fully agree with that. What kind of pressure - I can't come to the theater so we can't all explain how the director "fucks" them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u319	Please, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u320	I can't go to the study so they don't say it's impossible to work because they have a principal like that. And, in fact, wherever a man turns, these are the reasons. And here you have to have something in your hands, not at the expense of such rumors.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u321	Good. Comrade Juban, explanation of voice. Please don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u322	No, I won't argue. I will vote in favour of both proposals for conclusions, because I do not know who I am voting for. In the debate that was, and no one was talking about anyone, everything was just wrong. And it could happen if I voted against any of the conclusions to vote on the contrary. One member explained why she is resigning, the other one is not, and we are speaking on average and voting against everything, and the story is turning a little bit into Babylon when everything is wrong with us, and we are against everything. But who said at this point that they would oppose because this member, with his name and surname, would say that - we don't know! And those who accompany us - too bad that there is no direct transfer now - could think again of their own, as we had a strange decision yesterday on some extraordinary debate in this national assembly. I will vote in favour of both proposals because, as it seems, everyone else who discusses this does not know exactly who they are voting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u323	Well, now we only have one proposal for a decision. It's Mrs. Nevenka Cukon Mavec's release. Then there will be another, so that we vote separately so that there will be no misunderstandings. This proposal for a decision shall be decided by the national assembly first. We are voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of Ms Nevenka Cukon Mavec. May I have your attention, please? 57 present, 43 for and 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] This proposal for a decision was adopted. We now have a proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Ana the Advocate of the function of a member of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. You want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I will put this decision to the vote. We're voting. The decision on discharge shall be put to the vote, please pay attention. 57 present, 40 for and 8 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The proposal for a decision is adopted. This point is now closed. We are at the 3rd item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law. Good evening. By the way, this looks like a review that we will use more frequently in the course of the next vote. We are not using it now because then there is a little more time in the vote to move on. Well, we are now in the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law. Tuesday we held a second hearing, amendments to less than a dozen articles were adopted at this hearing, and on the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure we will now hold a third hearing. I'll give you the first word I ask for peace in the hall! [[...]] I'll give it first, if that's what he wants. At the beginning of the hearing, so no amendments have been tabled, so we will now hold a full debate on the bill. I ask, do qualified candidates want a word? The government? No, no, no. Anybody else want a word? Then we will now make a full decision on the bill. No one informed me that the text was inconsistent. That's how we make a full decision about the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. Peace in the hall. Present 56, 46 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] The law has been passed. Then we have here in the same way the 5th item of the agenda, the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. We have the same reason, Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, because no more amendments were adopted in the second reading than in the tenths of the articles, we are now in the third reading. Do qualified proponents want a word? I'm asking for peace in the hall! Otherwise, we will decide on the bill as a whole. The MPs and the MPs? Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u324	I am against, I will vote against this law because I have heard confirmation that this law is only about to wash money that has been sent from Slovenian casinos abroad and will now, in a legal way, come as capital to the country. It is sad that, on the day we talk about the fight against corruption, it is a sad thing that we adopt such a law and that we adopt such a government strategy that goes against it precisely, against the fight against corruption. One of the worst corruptions has been in the casinos, and now we're legalizing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u326	I will vote against this law because there is no need for one part of the casinos, that is, those casinos of classical gambling, to give to foreigners ownership. There is no obligation to join the European Union, seriously, because it is defined that part of the concession and dividend is earmarked for the development of charities and humanitarian and sports organisations. There's really no need. If this is what we have defined in our country, then foreigners would change that too. So we have two other groups of gambling that are going along the normal path to privatisation, and they're not connected to that kind of activity. That is why, of course, I will vote against this law. However, why would a thing that does not have a lot to do with capital have to do with the acquisition of funds from these bets and then, of course, with dividends and concessions that are of public interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u327	We decide on the bill as a whole. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. 60 in attendance, 44 in and 14 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are now on the 6th item of the agenda - the third reading of the bill on general product safety. It is the application of Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We are voting on a law on general product safety. 58 present, 48 for and one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. The last decision of today and also of the meeting, this is the 7th item of the agenda - the third item on the proposal of the Law on the Geometric Centre of Slovenia. Can we still decide on this subject? Please, we are voting on the law on the geometric center of Slovenia. Oh, I'm sorry! I'm calling off the vote. Please. The last point is this, I apologize, for the last vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u328	I will vote against the law because there is no reason for us to adopt such a law in the opinion of the government and in the conduct of this matter. In fact, it is a matter of being programmed in this law to determine what an institution, an organisation, should do and should receive State resources for this. This geometric centre does not belong to any cultural heritage or natural value, but it is now following a revised proposal, first the whole point would be set, now following a revised proposal, because the point could not be set for the purchase of a plot on which protocol events were to take place and, of course, that each year this would be an item in the state budget. All the events, all the programmes that take place and take place there, can be implemented and financed by the State budget through the programmes that it describes, at the very least, by the Ministry of Culture and some other ministries. There is no point in adopting laws that actually reflect something that will [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u329	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u330	has deviated from the general principles of what is national, national, state and so on, which is to be attributed in this law. [[...]] There's probably a lot of reasons for this area to become a landscape park or something. However, not only is the law of a point that is now not even a specific point, but it is a narrower area and therefore should actually form a public institution and fall on the list of state resources and I do not think we need such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u331	Did I see it right, Comrade Rokavec? Ah, Shirtz's colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u332	I have closely followed the debate under this law, and I must say that I have also tried to define my position on the basis of this debate, which was very ambitious at the beginning. But the summary of the debate was then based on three very controversial reasons. On the one hand, the geometric centre was defined as a geographical concept, after which it was a political concept, also linked to independence itself, after a practical concept, as one that would only become a law, through which a kind of social prize would be enacted. In Portugal, the southernmost point is, I think it is Cabo da Roca, defined, not by law, but defined as a tourist sight, which has its own economic and other reasons to exist. While our law excuses this, I will say the area, for the reason that it is a symbol of the roots of Slovenians in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And in this place, I wonder what, if the origin of the Slovenians in the area is what the border is based on, or according to the national, political or ethnic border, which means that we should also take into account the entrenchedness of the Slovenian nation outside the territory that operates through the state border, it is said, including the Slovenians who are trespassing on the other side of the border, in Koroška and elsewhere and in the south of the country. In that sense, I decided that I could not support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr Partljič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u334	I explain my voice, of course, as my forerunners, that I will not support it. Although I have some nostalgic relation to this place. I was once invited to speak there at 8 February. There I myself convened a committee of the Slovenian reading mark to show concern for everyone. At the time, it was on some level not to say, but on a civil initiative that was local patriotic and national patriotic, it seemed charming to me, very convenient. But when it becomes kind of a law thing, it's confirmed by the state. For the first time this part is lost, and for the second time I see no reason not to file an old vine law in Maribor. Since it is a big event every year, vineyards come from all over Europe, ambassadors participate and I simply see no reason. I think that if someone else's mind works, I have a feeling that it's about institutionalizing things in a way that some of the funds from the country can be brought in for that. I am sure that this area needs them, but of course with some other arguments, but not with this argument. That is why I cannot support it, even though I will like to respond to the events there, and I hope that they will not drive me away.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u336	Thank you for your word. I will support this bill. Indeed, the fact is that we cannot and can not deliver GEOSS, both geographically, historically, scientifically and nationally, cannot be placed in any system law. This is a fact, it has also been a clear message from the legal and legislative service to all of us who have participated in the drafting of this law. The fact is that GEOSS as a central point symbolizes the unity of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of independence. Since September 14, 1998, when the then delegates, together with all the mayors of Slovenian municipalities, decided to insist on accepting the Federation of disputed amendments. And then all these desires have been confirmed all along. Slovenia is one of the few countries on this earth that can calculate its difficult, central point. And Slovenia already has its history from Quarantine, a princely throne. And Slovenia’s entry into the European Union is more beneficial than the adoption of this law. Indeed, by this law, the state will add further confirmation of its national being and also the strengthening of this being when entering European integration - and, of course, allocate the minimum resources for what we accept in other laws [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in this National Assembly for the Further Development of GEOSS. [[...]] On this occasion, allow me just one more sentence to thank you in spite of all the co-proposals that come from all the groups of Members who have joined this project. And despite all that, I call, despite this thought of breaking this law, because I think it will be our country's pride. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Ašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u338	Thank you very much. I am said to be one of the few Members who, at the beginning of the debate on this law, made his comments in terms that no one has mentioned today. While I agree with all the reasons my fellow Members have already said, from my Group of Members. However, it is somehow past us to legislate the geographical concept calculated on the basis of national borders or republican borders that were in force in SFRJ in 1981. Although we have corrected this law to some extent on the Infrastructure Committee, it is no longer a geometric point, but it is a plot that defines this area, but my opinion has not been taken into account in order to record that this is the central point of the continental part of the Republic of Slovenia. The territory of the Republic of Slovenia is not only a continental or land part of Slovenia, but it is also a territory covered by the sea and represents the so-called maritime part of the country, which is not specified. And my point is that, of course, by legislating this we can make some forerunners who can in the future, I hope not, but it can also have some undesirable effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-02-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u339	Thank you very much. And an explanation of the voice, Mr. Horvath, if I'm right. [[...]] Thank you very much. We have therefore heard explanations of vote and can therefore move on to a decision on the law. [[..]] We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 36 to 18. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We still need to carry out the coordination process, which is to move on to the cut-off of the 13th item of the agenda, the consideration of the law on the provision of air navigation services. There has been a lack of consistency with the provisions of the bill due to the adoption of the amendments. The Government, as a bill-maker, has tabled the harmonisation amendments to Articles 5, 9 and 20 of the Act. You got all three on the bench. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Which one of the parliamentary groups? The MPs and the MPs? [[Not at all.]] We will first decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 5. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 9. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are still voting on the last harmonisation amendment to Article 20. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has also been adopted. Therefore, we can move on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you so much and good night!
