ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-20-SDZ3-Izredna-34.ana.u1	I can ask colleagues and colleagues, Members of the National Assembly to take their seats and also ministers and ministers, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will begin with the 34th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, for peace in the hall! Thank you very much. Before we begin the extraordinary meeting convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to inform you which of our colleagues or colleagues may not be present at the meeting due to other obligations. These are colleagues of Ašić, Dr. Brejc Cimperman, Fabjan, Juri, Kangler, Kelemina, Komljanec, Kontič, Kramberger, Kremjar, colleague Majnikova. Comrade Peterle, colleague of Potrata, colleagues of Pucko, Pukšič, Švagan, Trofenik, Weber, Vizjak and colleague of the Council of Zalikar Orazem. You're all here. Once again, I warmly welcome you, including the representatives of the government, and all of you, I wish a successful working afternoon. We are moving on to the agenda of the 34th extraordinary meeting. This draft agenda is prepared in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and you have received this proposal by reference. I have not received any proposals concerning the agenda, so we will move on to a decision on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would ask them to verify the functioning of their voting devices so that there are no misunderstandings during the decision-making period. Please be so kind as to check the operation of your devices. Can we decide on the draft agenda as you received by reference? Okay. The National Assembly shall vote on the draft agenda. May I have your attention, please? The National Assembly has decided. 53 is present, 44 for and 1 for [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. And we can move on to the only one, 1. Agenda item - Presenting the 2004 and 2005 budget memo and the 2005 budget proposal for the Republic of Slovenia This is the first act of consideration and adoption of the 2005 State budget in the National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government or the competent minister has the opportunity to present this proposal. There is no debate on this presentation today. Please, Prime Minister, mag. Anton Ropa to present the 2004 and 2005 budgetary memorandum and the draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-20-SDZ3-Izredna-34.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! Allow me to begin by apologizing to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble, that he is not among us today. The minister's sick. We expect that it will be better in a short time and that it will join the discussion on the budget when it will run in the National Assembly. Today, however, he is not yet capable of carrying out his part of the job, so that I will try to make something more concrete about the budgets myself, the draft amending budget for 2004 and the 2005 budget myself. In any event, the Minister will join in the discussion and will be happy to participate in the discussion. So if you allow me to start; Slovenia has been preparing intensively for more than ten years to join the European Union. During this period, we carried out structural changes in the economy, prepared domestic institutions for effective work in the European environment, and adapted our legal order to the common European rules. With 1 May of the following year, Slovenia will formally and effectively become a full member of the European Union, thus fulfilling its greatest goal after its independence. It will become an equal member of a large family of European countries that are embarking on a common path of building a richer, more competitive, fuller workforce, people and the more environmentally friendly Europe at the threshold of the third millennium. It will become part of a European society based on knowledge, democracy, human rights and greater social justice. Dear Members! The 2004 budget is the first Slovenian European budget and is historic in this respect. It is a budget that is already an integral part of the budget of the European Union in an important programme part and is becoming final with the draft amending budget for 2004. The proposed amendments include all elements of the final negotiations with the European Union at the end of last year. The adopted budget for 2004 will contain all the European elements, both our payments to the European Union starting in May of the following years, as well as the expected drawback and use of European budget resources by project and budget users. In fact, we can say that it is in the field of public finances that we will enter the European Union in the most concrete, first and most obvious way. We have prepared a draft budget for 2004 and 2005 with the aim of supporting and ensuring Slovenia's successful and effective entry into the European Union within the limits, limitations and opportunities given. The international economic circumstances are not the best times, especially in the Member States of the European Union, which are our most important external trading partners. In the spring, international institutions predicted 1 to 1.1% of economic growth in the euro area in 2003. The latest forecasts indicate only 0.5% of economic growth. For 2004, the forecast of economic growth for the euro area is lower, from 2.1 to 1.6%. The growth of Slovenian exports, which is less than expected in the spring, in particular in Germany, is moving accordingly. More than expected, exports to the countries of the former Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union, which reached an intermediate, high growth rate in the previous year, have also slowed down this year. It is not to be overlooked, however, that the latter are also markets where Slovenia's direct investment is increasing rapidly. Given the openness of the Slovenian economy, Slovenia is therefore necessarily sharing the fate of the global recession after 2000. In 2000 we reached 4.1% economic growth, last year and before last year it fell to 2.9%. This autumn's score is 2.6%. The correction of the forecast downwards in spring is therefore due to poorer opportunities in the international environment than expected. Similarly, most of the forecast revisions over the last two years have been applied as the recovery of the most important partners has been moving steadily for several years with each new institution's forecast for about half a year ahead. On the other hand, Slovenia is still in a small group of 30 developing countries that are catching up and overtaking others. In terms of economic growth, other countries, more than 170, are losing or maintaining their position. In the development of the European Union, after 1996, Slovenia reduced the backlog of the European Union average by reaching 74% of the average GDP in the European Union, or almost 10 structural points more than in 1996, according to previous data. We have overtaken Greece, we are catching up to Portugal, and at the same time, we are far ahead of this indicator among all the post-socialist countries. Despite adverse developments in the international economic environment, domestic demand is growing faster this year than expected in the spring. From a development perspective, it is important that, after a few years of modest growth, investment activity in particular increases, mainly due to the accelerated construction of motorways that started last year and the high imports of investment equipment in the first half of this year. It is also relatively higher than expected private consumption, where there was a long-awaited cyclical recovery this year. Even in 2004, we can expect a recovery scenario in relation to this year, at the same time based on less favourable developments in the international environment than we expected in the spring. The gradual recovery of export activities will be accompanied by the accelerated growth of domestic private and investment consumption, where it is mainly an intensive continuation of the construction of motorways and the strengthening of other investment expenditure, as well as the revitalization of residential buildings promoted by the release of the national housing scheme. At the same time, we expect that part of the scheme will also spill directly into private consumption, which will further accelerate the cycle of strengthening it in the coming year, although wage growth will remain at around this year's level and employment growth will remain relatively low. We estimate that, despite the tight international situation in 2003 and 2004-2005, we will be able to have economic growth in Slovenia, which will be two to three times higher than in the current Member States of the European Union. Some accession countries are expected to achieve slightly higher growth rates than Slovenia during this period, but with some very rare exceptions with significantly higher public financial and external deficits, which means that they will finance their higher growth mainly through indebtedness. Slovenia will realise its more sustainable economic growth in a situation of relatively good macroeconomic stability. Economic growth, which does not increase productivity and added value, is not our preferred alternative to economic growth, which creates structural, regional differences, degrades the environment and increases the contradictions between social development and indebtedness, so today the European Union and Slovenia are committed to long-term balanced growth, towards sustainable development, linking the post-industrial economy with social and environmental responsible development. Taking into account the current and projected trends in export and domestic demand, the autumn forecast of OMAR for economic growth in 2004 is 3,6 %, the projected economic growth for 2005 is 3,7 %, for the maintenance and similar structures of gross domestic product as in 2004, this is with a relatively strong contribution of domestic demand, in particular investment and private consumption, and the gradual strengthening of exports. Dear Members and Members. Despite lower economic growth than originally expected, today we can find that Slovenia has the lowest inflation since its independence, except for the second quarter of 1999, when inflation dropped to 4.3% before the introduction of VAT, due to the world market's extremely low oil prices and the lowest interest rates. Despite the trend of sustained inflation reduction, which we are witnessing this year, inflation in Slovenia is still higher than in other future EU member states. Its further downgrading is one of the key priorities of the government before entering the European exchange rate mechanism. However, reducing inflation is not only important because of the achievement of the Maastricht criteria and the entry into the ERM2 and the Euro-monetary area, but mainly because of the establishment of stable macroeconomic and competitive management conditions. For a longer-term downward trend in inflation in the coming years, critical factors will be structural reforms in the non-minor sector, the labour market and the successful coordination of macroeconomic policies. Inflation in Slovenia is mainly cost-effective and structural. Even after entry into ERM2, certain structural pressure on prices is likely to be present, especially for European coordination of fiscal benefits, specific environmental policy requirements and specific areas: electricity and rail prices. However, this is a matter of one-off effects which will not be passed on to other prices after the abolition of the indexation in the actual fixation of the exchange rate and the overall reduction of inflation expectations. Therefore, before entering the ERM2, we need to reduce inflation to a level that will not exceed the estimated impact of faster growth in Slovenian productivity, which means one to two percentage points. The government will limit the cost pressure - and it already does - arising from regulated prices, increased tax burdens and public sector wages. In order to increase the efficiency of the economy, it must lead an active policy of demonopolisation or effective regulation of the non-changing and public sector. The correctness of prices will be reduced by removing the indexation generated by the hedges in interest rates, in the accounts and in the contracts concluded by the State. We are planning a gradual deindexation in the area of wages and partly in the case of individual social transfers. By restrictively planning public spending, we will limit the growth of non-investment public spending and we expect Banka Slovenije's monetary policy to follow the restrictiveness of government policies, allowing for a smoothing of inflationary expectations and limiting the growth of the country's demand. This situation allows the Bank of Slovenia to reduce the nominal interest rates accordingly and also the nominal rate of depreciation of the dollar rate against the euro. Respected Members and Members, irrespective of the rather unfavourable forecasts from the international environment, the projected higher rate of domestic economic growth than the EU average will allow real convergence or a reduction of Slovenia's development backlog behind the current members of the European Union. In doing so, we will pursue several objectives: reducing social differences, differences in the economic development of individual Slovenian regions towards sustainable development, which will not be at the expense of future generations. Despite the major restructuring of our economy and despite the urgent rehabilitation and restructuring of many systems and despite the establishment of infrastructure and many other development priorities, all of which require large budgetary investments, social policy in Slovenia has not been pushed to the brink and has played a positive role in the entire self-adoption period. We have successfully adapted to this new situation in almost all areas of social security for the people and with the health reform that has been under discussion today, we will round up this policy in its entirety. The standard of living of people has improved in recent years, which has undoubtedly been contributed by a wage policy that has enabled their real growth, and real wage growth has been followed by real pension growth all the time. For people who did not have these two basic sources of income or were not sufficient, social policy provided basic social security with a range of different instruments. With only passive forms of assistance, as we used to know it, a system of active employment policy measures has been introduced, notably through the training of the unemployed and incentives for employers to successfully increase the employability of people who have lost their jobs. The basic conditions are provided for a more successful start to address problems in the provision of housing, better access to housing and more suitable rent subsidies for those who cannot do so on their own. In this context, family policy has also been one of those areas in which the Government's special attention has been focused over the past period. In doing so, I am referring in particular to those measures of the State which mean raising quality, choosing, establishing gender equality, respecting children's rights, especially children with special needs, protecting parents and mothers, protecting the vulnerable, supporting families with multiple children. While we are witnesses to the constant assessment that the country does not have a family policy, despite the clearly outlined objectives adopted by the resolution on the basis of family policy, which we have largely achieved. It is precisely because of the simplified estimates that nativity shows the failure to implement family policy that we have carried out a series of studies that point to the complexity of the problem, which is far from hidden in the material aid of the country, but in the integrity of health, housing, employment policies, as well as entirely subjective decisions of individuals. The task of the state is to know the causes of the problem and to offer a choice. And efforts are under way in this direction in the current family policy and the preparation of a national family programme. Your Honor! The time remaining before we enter the European Union must be used to the best possible extent. The more we take advantage of it, the easier we will become part of the European Union, and with fewer shocks. We have made relatively good use of the time before and during the preparation of the 2004 and 2005 budgets. It is very important that we, together with the social partners, have drawn up and adopted a social agreement for the period 2003-2005; that we have agreed with the public sector unions on public sector wage policy and, last but not least, that we have decided and have successfully eliminated many inflationary hotspots. At the same time, even more important are the tasks still ahead of us. Despite the fact that next year is also an electoral year, we must do our utmost to complete the work and prepare ourselves for an effective entry into the European Union. We are faced with a double challenge: for the first time, how to take advantage of the new development opportunities opened by membership, and for the second time, how to avoid the risks that will arise at the time of entry. At the time of accession to the European Union, the government will actively implement the development orientation already outlined by the Economic Development Strategy, the budgetary memorandum for the next two years and, in particular, the programme for effective entry into the European Union. Instead of the predominant stabilisation policy imposed by the difficult situation of Slovenia after the start of the transition, we are focusing on a development policy that will further promote competitiveness and economic growth. This is demonstrated by the revised programming and economic structure of the expenditure of the State budget in the 2004 amendment proposal and the 2005 draft budget. Instead of simply solving political and economic problems, we want to create an environment for creative social development, fortifying the country's cultural self-confidence and identity. With the programme for effective entry into the European Union, the government has responded to these challenges and has set short-term measures and priorities for its policy. The government responds to the risks arising from relatively higher domestic inflation through appropriate policies under its responsibility and through coordinated action with the Bank of Slovenia. These measures already bring positive results this year. The challenges posed by the adjustment of the European budget system to economic policy management and the long-standing weak economic activity in the European Union countries have been addressed by the government with measures to increase the flexibility of economic policy and reduce the structural deficit of public finances. The Programme for the Effective Entry into the European Union contains measures, some of which are already being implemented and implemented, others will be implemented after the adoption of budgets for 2004, 2005 and others will be implemented on the basis of specifically adopted laws, strategies or government measures. This is a matter of action in various areas. In the area of economy, regional development, under which we are preparing a law on promoting coherent regional development, which will be submitted shortly to the National Assembly. The health reform agenda is on the move and, of course, we will have to bring it to an end. It will be necessary to complete public sector reform. It is the law on public institutions, the law on public enterprises, the law on the integration of public records; the implementation of the principles of the rule of law; the amendment of the criminal code, the law on courts, the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the development of corruption; the amendment of the law on the market of securities; foreign policy; the adaptation of membership in the European Union and NATO; and also cultural identity; the adoption of a national cultural programme. There are many economic measures. I've already mentioned some. Let me mention, in the grave and in the short term, that I will not be too long, first of all measures to increase the flexibility of the economy and economic policy that we are implementing and will implement when these two budgets are adopted, which we are implementing and will be implemented by applying everything we have agreed with the social partners, everything we have agreed with the public sector unions. This is about measures to reduce inflation before entering the ERM2, which I have already talked about. These are measures to increase economic growth and employment, which are accompanied by both budgets and are in part contained in the law on the implementation of the budget, and this is a matter of tax reform and greater efficiency of the tax administration. So for an important task, which and with which we are actively engaged and which, according to our assessment, should be carried out before the elections. The first is, of course, the Income Act, and among the basic objectives that have been taken into account in the preparation of the new Income Law, are the global burden on the debtors, in particular those in the lower income classes that will be fully burdened, up to the amount of the minimum income established by the Social Protection Act, and a more equal tax treatment of incomes and a more even distribution of tax burdens between taxpayers. In order to successfully implement this part of the reform, it is essential, of course, to have an appropriate critical discussion with all stakeholders who have comments whose situation may deteriorate and the discussion with them takes place intensively, and I hope that we will find appropriate solutions in due course. In particular, there are areas of culture, student work, science, education and the like. I estimate that the work is going well and that before the end of the year we can expect the work to be completed and to go with the Income Act to the National Assembly. Also important is the Law on corporate income tax, which will replace the existing Law on corporate income tax and ensure the neutrality of the tax system and the taxation of taxpayers in proportion to their economic power. Of course, the very important part of this law is one that speaks of tax reliefs. What we want to introduce by this law and the new tax is a greater selectivity of tax reliefs. Slovenia already has one of the lowest rates of profit tax and we want additional reliefs in particular where they have effects in terms of added value of development, innovation and so on. In this regard, there are, of course, appropriate discussions with the Chamber of Economics, with the association of employers and, of course, this law - I hope - will also be presented in due time to the National Assembly before the end of the year. In the framework of tax reform, administrative laws, the Tax Procedure Act, the Tax Service Act, the Customs Service Act will also be proposed, which will allow for more modern and effective administration of material tax laws and administrative cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union, of which Slovenia will also, of course, be tried after entry. There are also economic measures to promote employment, as well as structural reforms of the financial sector related to the entry into the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, will take over the common European currency, which is expected to happen between 2007/2008. Before that, it will have to be included in the European exchange rate mechanism for at least two years and prove that, without economic difficulties, it can maintain a stable exchange rate of the euro. The necessary condition for entry into the European exchange rate mechanism in the first half of 2005 or at the beginning of 2005 is the appropriate adaptability of the economy, which means the ability to meet real and nominal convergence criteria at a long time. Of the nominal criteria, Slovenia meets both fiscal criteria. This year, the government and Banka Slovenije succeeded in coordinating income, fiscal, monetary and development policies to reduce inflation, which has slipped to 5% in this year or September. For a sustained reduction in inflation in the coming years, there will be key coherence with macroeconomic policies and the continuation of structural reforms, which I have already discussed. The aim of public financial policy over the next two years is to achieve a sustainable budgetary deficit and to manage public debt in the medium and long term. The development of the social state so far, a number of new public and private sector development requirements and adaptation to the rules and requirements of the European budget put great pressure on sustainable budget deficits. Additional financial commitments resulting from the integration processes - the Schengen border, for example - will be largely covered by the government with a rational and mutually coordinated establishment of military and police structures, so that they will not lead to a significant deterioration of the public financial position. We will continue, in a planned and rational manner, with reforms in the defence system and commitments made in the NATO integration process. In the context of the European recession and the slowdown of domestic economic growth, it is, and will be, in the face of the pressures exerted by the entry into the European Union, to create a cyclical deficit acceptable and meaningful under conditions that allow for the promotion of sustainable economic development. Dear Members and Members! The government's main macroeconomic objectives in the area of public finances over the next two years are: a government deficit not exceeding 1.7% of GDP in 2004 and 1.6% in 2005; a government budget deficit of 1.5% of GDP in 2004 and 1.7% of gross domestic product in 2005. In doing so, the consolidated government revenue is expected to amount to 2,614 billion in 2004, amounting to 42.3% of the gross domestic product envisaged; in 2005, the revenue will be 2.849 billion, representing 42.7% of the gross domestic product. The consolidated public expenditure will amount to $2,721 billion in 2004, representing 44.1% of the estimated gross domestic product, with revenue of 2,954 billion in 2005, amounting to 44.3% of the gross domestic product. The revenue of the state budget will be 1.555 billion, which is 25% of GDP, and the expenditure will be 1.648 billion in 2004, representing 26.7% of GDP, and 26.3% in 2005. The 2004 draft amending budget also includes, for the first time, the expected appropriations from the European Union budget, a total of 80.4 billion dollars to be allocated to the implementation of the common agricultural policy, structural and cohesion policy and the establishment and functioning of the Schengen border. In 2005, the amount of funds drawn will reach 103.2 billion. In 2004 and 2005, the European Union budget will also draw on flat-rate reimbursements to strengthen cash flow and to offset the budget. On the other hand, in the first year of full membership in the European Union, Slovenia is expected to contribute a total of 45 billion to the budget of the European Union. In 2005, it will pay around 76.3 billion tolars into the European Union budget. In 2004, it is estimated that it will receive around 35.4 billion dollars more from the European budget than it will contribute. The surplus in 2005 is expected to amount to 26.9 billion tolars, mainly due to the drying of pre-accession funds. This time, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has the first two Slovenian budgets, which include payments and payments to the European budget in the cuts of budgetary expenditure and revenue. While on the part of commitments to the European Union these occur in a predetermined size and dynamic of payments, they appear on the remuneration side as structural and programme potential benefits, meaning in other words that they will only be realised and that Slovenian absorption capacity will be large and effective; if we provide such sufficient institutional and financial absorption capacity. Institutional absorption capacity is the ability of the State to draw up and properly manage programmes that can be financed by the European Union. However, financial absorption capacity is the ability of the State to ensure mandatory co-financing of these programmes. So, on the one hand, it is necessary to prepare programmes, programmes that are, of course, suitable, which can compete and on the basis of which we can get these funds, and on the other hand, of course we had to and we provided co-financing in the budget for these programmes. These facts, of course, result in both the pressure to change the structure of the programme part of the budget, i.e. the substitution of existing programmes with Europeans and the pressure on additional funding to ensure co-financing of these programmes. In addition to the direct impacts I have been talking about, the European budgetary financing for the state budget is further co-formed by the so-called pre-accession fiscal effects associated with the additional expenditure arising from the obligation to enter the European Union from our obligation to enter the European Union. These are commitments, for example, linked to the Schengen border, those related to the common agricultural policy - namely the budgetary expenditure on agriculture - as well as the post-accession fiscal effects associated with - for example, the expected change in the efficiency of value added tax collection, in Slovenia we have a higher efficiency in value added tax collection than in the European Union average, customs reductions and payments to the European Union, for example, membership for the European Investment Bank, which we have to pay. Only the overall impact of reducing value added tax revenues, eliminating customs duties and customs duties with the European Union countries is estimated at 25.4 billion tolars. Only from this heading will there be so much less revenue in the Slovenian budget. The fiscal consequences of the budget entry into the European Union are therefore mainly double. Additional public financial pressures due to the fulfilment of the acquis at the time of entry into the European Union and the European budgetary rules linked to the financial flows between the national budget and the European budget, which cause major structural changes in the budget both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. With the proposed budget, we have managed to hold a neutral public financial position in Slovenia despite major pressures and major changes in the structure of the budget, mainly due to the relatively effective multi-annual gradual adjustment of our policies to Europeans. In other words, gradually over the years, we have been building ourselves a European agricultural policy, for example, and for this we have dedicated more of our own resources, which now makes it easier for us to substitute. We have also been preparing to join the European Union in connection with the Schengen border and, of course, have gradually earmarked and reserved additional funds for such investments, which, of course, has made it significantly easier for us to enter the European Union now and the financial shock we would have experienced if we had not done so in the past. The proposed 2004 budget changes provide for 55 billion more revenue than was expected at the 2004 budget adopted last year. The difference is due to various factors, and the most important is the inclusion of revenue from the European budget, in fact the budget on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. If we exclude revenue from the EU budget, which is the only meaningful comparison, their nominal increase is 5.7% in 2004 compared to this year, which is significantly below the real rate of economic growth, which is expected to be 3.6% for 2004, or a 2% reduction in the 2004 budget. We can therefore assess that much work has been done in the preparation of the budget. Dear assembly, allow me to present below the draft amending budget for 2004 and the budget for 2005 according to individual programme functionalities, first in the field of education. After the structural share, the largest share of budgetary expenditure in 2004 and 2005 will go to education programmes, 17.7% in 2004, and in the next two years the state spending on education will increase by 14.6% and 39.9 billion, representing 5.5% real growth. In this context, the funds for primary and secondary education and for higher education programmes are most increased, particularly in 2004, when the integral funding of both universities is introduced. More resources are also intended to finance the postgraduate study and adult education, and in addition to these resources, an additional 1.5 billion tolls for the recapitalisation of the AD Future public fund, the Scientific and Educational Foundation of the Republic of Slovenia, are foreseen in 2004. Science and technological development funds will increase by 30% over the next two years, by 11.3 billion, representing 21% growth. Slovenia will implement programmes and activities to make research and development a key factor in the economic development of the country. Within this, the most resources are devoted to scientific research activities, faster transfer of knowledge from the research sphere to businesses and the development of the information and telecommunications system. Under this programme, the growth of funds in the field of technological development is the greatest. The volume of funds for these purposes will increase by 97% and 3.5 billion over the next two years, and additional 2 billion for the Investment Fund for Technology Development are foreseen in the financial and investment account in 2005. In the field of the economy, funds will increase by 34% in 2004 over the next two years. The maximum growth in resources is reflected in the promotion and support of economic activity, where the bulk of the funds are allocated to competitiveness programmes, business restructuring and the promotion of the development of a small economy. Increased growth, 27% in terms of the 2003 balance, is also in promoting tourism development. Additional funds are provided in the SIT 4.5 billion financial claims and investments account, of which 3.5 billion are planned for the country's guarantees. At the same time, the accelerated transformation of the defence system and the Slovenian army into an effective, rational and security situation is an adapted organisation, while integration into the defence structures of NATO is among the important strategic objectives of the Slovenian country. Over the next two years, the available defence resources will allow for the achievement of the strategic objectives set by speeding up the implementation of the following processes: the substantial increase in the connectivity of our defence system with NATO standards, the transition to a professional army with a voluntary contractual reserve, the promotion of scientific research activities and the continuation of defence reforms. Funds for the construction and maintenance of transport infrastructure and the implementation of public transport services will increase by 14.6 billion in 2004 or 15% and slightly less in 2005 - the latter mainly assumes that the situation in the field of rail transport will be improved with the rehabilitation of the national carrier already under way. Within the framework of the programme framework, in the form of investment transfers, the main means are provided for the implementation of the Slovenian highway programme. Already with the 2003 budget, we have significantly increased the volume of the budget allocated to the implementation of the highway programme and accelerated their construction. The volume of these funds was raised to 35.2 billion in 2003, and 37 and 382 billion will be provided in 2004 and 2005 - partly from domestic resources, and partly through the engagement of cohesion funds, i.e. European funds. These funds, together with Dars' own and credit resources, will significantly accelerate, further accelerate the construction of the Slovenian road cross. Thus, 9 new sections of the motorway will be completed and put on the market in 2004 and construction will begin at four new sections 30.4 kilometers long. In 2005 it will be marketed 6 sections of 32 kilometres long. It is envisaged to start construction on ten newhods at a total length of 47 kilometers. A total of 80,3 km of highways, fast roads, and highways will be built in the next two years, and construction will begin on 77.5 km of highways. In the area of social policy, the budget shall maintain its social attitude for the next two years. The expenditure planned by the State budget for social security, both this year and the next two years, is increasing. The increase is mainly due to the implementation of legislation on family policy and social protection, which ensures the establishment of an information system to monitor and support the implementation of laws and new rights under new employment legislation for persons with disabilities. The overall social protection programme is increasing by 5% in 2004 and will amount to 183 billion, while in 2005 it will increase by 187.8 billion. The largest share of resources within the social protection programme is allocated to children and families, namely SIT 111.2 billion in 2004 and SIT 112.4 billion in 2005. The implementation of the planned social policy also remains an important part of the government strategy over the next two years. The long-term objectives of the government are to improve the quality of life of vulnerable groups, to ensure social security for different groups of users, to provide social assistance to people in different social distresses and to ensure the implementation of family policies, to provide family benefits with the aim of providing material and social conditions for families and their members. We are confident that this, together with measures from other areas, in particular with measures in the field of education, employment and housing policy, will allow Slovenia to remain in the European circle of countries with lower levels of poverty and a high level of social cohesion in the future. Environmental protection funds are increasing by 16% over the next two years, in 2004, which is the year of entry into the European Union, giving greater emphasis in particular to environmental policy - management of radioactive waste, management of water resources control and assistance and support for nature conservation. In 2005, however, additional attention is paid to reducing pollution, control and control. To a large extent, the increase is due to this year's beginning and future accelerated policy of promoting the largest carbon dioxide air pollutants to gradually shift to more environmentally acceptable production, to which we are bound by the ratified Kyoto Protocol. In the field of health care, the level of funding increases by 4.4 billion tolars in 2004, which is 31% more than this year. In 2005, however, the growth rate is 6%. Investments in health will continue to increase during this period, with 18.5 billion dollars from the state budget in the next two years, of which 8.7 billion in 2004 and 9.7 billion in 2005. In particular, major investments in the oncology institute, paediatric clinic, hospital block upgrades and surgery in the clinical centre and the replacement construction of the neurological clinic are envisaged among the largest investments in healthcare. There is also a significant increase in health care and thus funding for preventive health programmes, which will increase by 66% in 2004 and increase to 3.3 billion in 2005. In the area of agriculture, the 2004 and 2005 budget provides a good basis for the continuation and completion of agricultural reform. In 2004, agricultural expenditure will increase nominally by 14.7% and will increase by 8.4 billion in 2004 compared to this year. In 2005, compared to the 2004 draft amending budget, expenditure is projected to increase by 12.8% and 8.3 billion respectively. The key advantages in the area of agricultural expenditure are those that will significantly increase the absorption capacity of the agricultural and state budget after entering the European Union in the long term. The total value of all direct payments of Eco 0 at aggregate level in 2004 will reach 85% of European payments in 2004 and 90% in 2005. Compared to 2003, the budget for market-price policy measures in 2004 is higher by 30%, with the budget for market stabilisation increasing by 11.5%. In 2005, direct payments are projected at SIT 19.6 billion, which is 25.6% higher. In the area of culture, the volume of resources will increase by 11.1% and 4 billion tolars in the following year. The increase is forecasting the implementation of the proposed national programme for culture 2004-2007, which is also shown in 2005, as 41.67 billion tolars are foreseen for culture this year. Funding for investment in culture increases by 22% in 2004 and by 7% in 2005. In total, 14.8 billion tolars will be earmarked for the reconstruction of monuments and cultural heritage, for the continuation and upgrading of the buildings of the former Metelkova military station, for the reconstruction of SNG Drama Ljubljana and SNG Opera and Ballet Ljubljana, and for other investment projects in both years. Dear Members and Members! The inclusion of the Slovenian budget in the budget flows of the European Union required the budgetary users to restructure their financial plans in a radical way. The mandatory co-financing of specific programmes and the necessary substitution of domestic programmes with Europeans required preparation for the implementation of the rationalisation of fixed parts of the budget, without which the budget could not be drawn up. To this end, a significant reduction in expenditure on salaries is foreseen in 2004. The 2004 draft changes to the State budget plan for salaries and other expenditure for employees in direct budget users amounting to 177 billion tolars, which represents a reduction compared to the 2004 budget. In 2005, 183 billion will be provided to cover salaries in the budget. For expenditure on goods and services, 155 billion is foreseen in the draft amending budget in 2004, which is 2.4% less than in the approved budget for 2004. In 2005, the country is expected to spend 165 billion on these types of expenditure. The proposal for amending the 2004 budget foresees a total subsidy expenditure of 76 billion. Compared to the 2004 budget adopted, subsidies increase by 3%. In 2005, 84 billion were envisaged for the purpose of subsidising private entrepreneurs and private and public enterprises. In the structure of all subsidies for 2004, the largest share of the agricultural subsidy is 41%, which is, of course, due to the implementation of the common European agricultural policy. Subsidies from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs relating to active employment policy and the Ministry of the Economy follow. The 2004 draft amending budget provides for investments and investment transfers totalling $179.8 billion, which is 9% more than in the adopted budget or 25% more than in 2003. This means that we have further increased investment by amending the budget and further increased investment expenditure by a quarter this year. In 2005, however, these funds will fall to 176 billion as a result of the reduction in funding for the construction of projects at the southern border. This means, of course, that in 2004 we will have extraordinary investment efforts, which are particularly linked to the entry into the European Union and this requires additional and relatively large engagement from us. The largest part of investment transfers for 2004 is the provision of funding for the construction of motorways - 37 billion. Investment transfers to municipalities - 18.4 billion, investment transfers to public institutions 8.8 billion and private companies - 10.8 billion. Dear Members and Members! Let me briefly outline the basic characteristics of the financial plans submitted by the two funds: compulsory social insurance for the next two years. This is the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and Health Insurance, as well as the basic framework for the budgets of the municipalities, as based on the macroeconomic frameworks presented and the economic policy measures envisaged for 2004, 2005. The financial plan of the pension fund, as well as the State budget for the next two years, provides that the state budget of the pension fund will provide funds to cover the State's current pension and disability liabilities, as well as additional commitments from the State to the SPIZ to ensure that the current pension balance will also be offset within the next two years, or that the SPIZ will continue to show an excess of revenue over expenditure in the amount that will allow for the gradual repayment of the SPIZ debt from previous years. Thus, the 2004 SPIZ financial plan provides for a surplus in the revenue and expenditure balance of 2.9 billion dollars for 2005 of 5.4 billion, which will allow for a reduction in the pension fund debt of 23.3 billion in 2000. The 2004 Health Finance Plan proposal, which is also attached to the entire package of documents that are being discussed today, foresees a deficit of 14.4 billion tolars in the next year. Without introducing changes, changes, of course, including health reform, the deficit in the health treasury will continue to increase in the coming years. Taking into account the measures envisaged by health reform, the impact, in particular the rationalisation of public procurement, the impact of reference prices and the impact of the envisaged increased contribution of insurers, is expected to lead to a balance sheet in 2005. Of course, I would also like to point out that the debate is still ahead - an additional debate on health insurance reform and I hope that we will all find acceptable ways and ways to implement health insurance reform together. Estimates of the revenue and expenditure of the 2004 and 2005 budgets of the municipalities shall take into account the same macroeconomic baselines as those of the State budget. On this basis, the projections of the general budget balances of municipalities over the next two years show that the total revenue and expenditure of municipal budgets will increase slower than the growth of gross domestic product. The total revenue of the municipality budget will thus reach around 5% of the gross domestic product over the next two years and the expenditure of municipal budgets around 5.1% of GDP. Dear Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to support sound and sustainable economic growth, accompanied by stable and flexible public finances with a programming structure that is developmental and European-oriented, in particular through the new budgets for 2004 and 2005. The basic conclusion of the Government's development report is that the principles of sustainable development are being realised, but that imbalances remain in all three of its components. European medium-sized growth would not be without improvements in indicators of national competitiveness. Also, managers' business renovations already enable us to make a good assessment of the potential of Slovenian economic growth. There are also positive developments in the economic structure, where we are gradually approaching the image of the developed economies of the European Union. On the other hand, in terms of overall factor productivity based on the use of new technologies, knowledge and learning, we are still lagging behind. We are still part of a group of transition countries where we have a relatively slow implementation of transition reforms, and we are still in relation to foreign capital and foreign markets, where we need to focus, an overly closed economy. Therefore, the establishment of institutional infrastructure for faster development and the search for a development consensus is a condition for faster and more efficient economic growth and sustainable development of Slovenian society. The proposed budgets for 2004 and 2005 in their development work, the Development Programmes Plan, include as many as 1,900 development projects and programmes that span until 2007 and anticipate the use of immediate funds as private funds. Undoubtedly, they provide a good basis and opportunity for adequate support for projects and the economy. Your Honor! The European nature of the two budgets ahead of us means, on the one hand, that the European programme parts of the budget are significantly strengthened in our public finances and, on the other hand, that the real developmental realization of both budgets is primarily an opportunity and a challenge. It is our duty to take this opportunity for the benefit of all Slovenian citizens and citizens. The government is determined to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-20-SDZ3-Izredna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Before concluding today's session, allow me, my fellow Members and colleagues, ministers and ministers, to brief you very briefly on the plan to deal with both documents in the National Assembly. On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, work bodies will meet to table amendments to the draft budgets. The deadline for the submission of amendments by Members, sent groups and interested bodies is Thursday, 30 October this year. On 4 November, the first meeting of the Finance Committee, to be defined by the amendments tabled, will be held on Wednesday, 10.12., as well as the final meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to define until the budget changes. Both documents will be adopted by the National Assembly or discussed earlier on Thursday, 11 December and Friday, 12 December. Thank you very much! That's it for tonight. All good till next time! Thank you very much! The session is closed.
