ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Some of our colleagues and colleagues will be absent due to other obligations. These are: colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, Dr. Miha Brejc, colleague Fabjan, colleague of Stopareva. At the beginning of the session, we will not have our colleague Švagan with us, or Trofenik, Weber and Jaša Zląbec will be absent. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. Mr Anton Ropa at the 1st item of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Judicial Council at the 9th item of the agenda. All who are already present or will join in the national assembly in advance welcome. First, the National Assembly will move on to the establishment of the agenda for the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the year 11.4. We will decide in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw or extend the agenda within the time limit. This means that you could decide on the agenda as you received by reference. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda, as you received by reference. I shall put the draft agenda to the vote. You want a word? Vote explanation, please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this agenda for two fundamental reasons. For the first time, it is not included on the agenda of the Trade Act. It has also not been admitted to college in order to move forward in order to determine and give the possibility to regulate trade as regulated European countries have. We also risk holding a referendum in the Republic of Slovenia. This would be a fine opportunity for the National Assembly to respond in an appropriate manner. Second, if we look at the agenda, we see that very few laws are included in this agenda. Obviously, the government is not preparing legislation at an appropriate pace and is preparing what is necessary. Among other things, there are a number of laws that I have tabled; the Law on Exceptional Tax Exemptions; and many other laws. He's not responding. Therefore, it considers that these things do not need to be regulated in the Republic of Slovenia. These are the reasons why I will vote against this agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u3	My friend Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. I won't support this agenda either. The view of this agenda shows that there are only five laws on it. According to government forecasts, only about 15% of the legislative programme was received this year. According to the ruling coalition's forecasts in the coalition contract, she may have made some 20% of these forecasts regarding the bills that the government is supposed to propose in this mandate. The government itself says that in a bad year until entry into the European Union, there are still about 70 laws that will harmonise our legislation with European legislation. And we have five laws on our agenda today and nothing more. In short, the agenda that we have before us is not a reflection of some normality, as shown by the fact that European Parliaments also have shorter agendas because things are already in order, but rather the result of the government's failure. The result of the government's failure is also in the light of the criteria set by the government alone. I am not talking now about our initiatives, so that some things can be settled, and we have not received proposals, I am talking about what the government has announced itself and it might be good to learn from the agenda itself whether it will be so in the future and whether we will be late to bring our legislation into line with the European standards set. That is why, of course, I cannot support this agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u5	Anyone else want to explain their vote before the vote? If that is not the case, then we will move on to the decision to set the agenda as you received by reference. We're voting. Present 64, 44 for and 16 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the agenda for the 25th meeting of the National Assembly is set. At 3 p.m., we will move on to the first item of the agenda, which is questions from Members and Members. Until then, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen! Good day again! I particularly welcome the government representatives who have joined us. We're also expecting the Prime Minister of Mags. Anton Rope. We're going to move on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written applications from 35 colleagues and colleagues within the deadline of business. In accordance with Rule 244(2) and 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the order for asking questions is to be drawn up in such a way that two members of the opposition are appointed as members of the ruling coalition. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister. Please, let's start with the questions. The Prime Minister has just arrived at the hall. Before that I should inform the National Assembly that the two ministers have apologized, although I see the Presecnik minister among us - after 4 p.m. you will be absent, the National Assembly has taken note of this. The Secretary of Defense, Dr. Anton Grizold, will also be absent. I don't have any other excuses. First, they will be Mag to the Government or to the Prime Minister. Anton Ropa - also you, Prime Minister, welcome! - asked questions to opposition colleagues. He will be the first to ask a question from his colleague, Dr Andrej Bajuk. Please, Dr. Bayuk, you have time to ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, I hope that today you will answer our citizens with a clear answer to the following questions. What is the government or state wage policy governing directors' salaries, i.e., administrations or management in companies where the state has a direct or indirect majority or individual majority share of state capital? Where is this policy regulated or recorded? Why is this policy not known to the national assembly and the public? Where are they and who are the ones in our country who make the decisions? I want this policy explained to the citizens on at least two occasions. First of all, what guidance did you give as Prime Minister or as Finance Minister to Mr Lenič in the Capital Society, Mr Kušar in the Slovenian Compensation Society, and the Slovenian Development Society or SRD in liquidation, which is owned by Skimar, which is 90% owned by Elana, d.d., that Mr. Uroš Korže, with his 2001 business year team, was able to charge a prize of 1,600 million dollars and last week announced again that this prize for the 2002 business year would be a modest 400 million dollars, i.e. a total of 2,000 million dollars? I would also like to point out that every man in the administration of Elan has at least a million 700,000 tolars a month. And to this secondary question: What percentage of dividends belongs to the opposite state capital invested by the State through the SRD in 2001 in the purchase and restructuring of Elan to buy it back from the Croats and enable him to do business together for the purchase and restructuring of 7 billion tolars? How much of Elan's profits belonged directly or indirectly to State capital or was distributed to the budget? The second example, which is part of the government's wage policy, is the wages of the former or the current and future administrations of the Insurance Office of Triglav. Explain to us: What skills and business achievements have they achieved, for example, Mrs Nada Klemenčič and her colleagues, members of the insurance management and associated companies, that they are ranked in the first five places in the preparation of incomes in Slovenia for 2001? This is likely to be the case for 2002. Explain: What are the achievements of Mrs Klemenčič and Mr Tomažič in running a monopolistic insurance company with a centuries-old tradition that they deserve the most wages in the country? In this respect, we are wondering: What wages will the new Board of Insurance of Triglav, which will be determined on the basis of a decision on 85% of the ownership of the State or the SOD and the KAD? Who's gonna set these wages? What is Mr. Kušar's conscience, or will the Slovenian government say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u9	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Thus, the government's policy on wages in enterprises owned by the majority state and in public institutions has long been set and defined and has also been publicly published and clarified. This is a 1998 decision in which the government has set out recommendations to members of the Supervisory Boards concerning salaries, performance awards, discharges and so on, and in which it is specified exactly how wages are to be determined for companies owned by a majority of the state. These are the criteria by which salaries are calculated on the basis of the methodology of the management company and by which all these salaries were also established in all these years. Public companies, funds and agencies were also determined by the decision of the then government to set these salaries up to 90% of the minister's salary. In order to clarify this further, last year the Government's decision in this regard was further supplemented, you are probably aware of this decision, which also laid down such salaries for companies owned by Holding Slovenske Power Plants. Thus, in these cases it is systematically determined what wages are and so all salaries were charged. This government policy is clear and, on the basis of this government policy, reports are being prepared and will also be prepared for all these directors, and these salaries can be accessible to all of you. Of course you're asking me about some other wages. It is very interesting that you ask me about the salary of the Director of Insurance Triglav, when you know it, in this case the Insurance Company Triglav was not in the majority state ownership and together in this National Assembly we have adopted and adopted legislation on which we will also be able to arrange this in this case, which you are instigating. This means that we can first arrange supervision in the supervisory board, review the business in the case of the Triglav Insurance Company and also check the performance of the business and the reasons for any reward. In fact, the law also obliges us to do so, and that is what we will do in this case. You're asking me about some other cases. In the case of Elan, it is my opinion that everything must be done to address the award problem properly. And the instructions of the Slovenian Indemnity Society and the Capital Society were to try to achieve, by making an appropriate settlement, that the payment you are talking about should you wish to receive from the gross profit will not come. In particular, I do not know exactly the stage at which these negotiations are currently with the administration of Elan, perhaps with regard to any further explanation that the Ministry of Economy representative may also be able to make. Otherwise, these things have long been properly arranged. However, if such irregularities or over-rewards are identified in any case, then those who are subordinated to such undertakings, in this case the Capital Society, the Slovenian Compensation Society, or those who are indirectly involved in the case of daughters - and the daughters have not been directly regulated because they are under the responsibility of the mother - they are responsible and must be responsible accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The question is to be complemented by a colleague of Dr. Bayuk's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Excuse me if I have to express my disappointment at your answer. The fact is that the Company Act, which organises public companies or economic services and companies with significant shares of the state, does not set the level of wages of the management or administration and leaves this decision to the owners - and the Slovenian State is the owner. The government should therefore, when exercising ownership of State capital, lay down the criteria for remuneration for managers that would be consistent with their business achievements and would take into account acceptable wage relations in society for Slovenia. In one of the last reviews, TV Slovenia broadcasts, "The Salary Record", Mr Lenič, as president of the Capital Society administration, which is owned by the whole of Slovenia, explained freely to the public how it is right to pay the managers of companies managed by KAD from 1.7 million to up to 3 million tolars per month; at least that way it could be understood. On behalf of whom did he express such an opinion on behalf of the Government? Mr Prime Minister, your actions are not only of concern to the opposition and the majority of citizens, but your actions are also of concern to almost all the experts and professors who care about this country. Thus you have certainly read that Dr. Tina Stanovnik, professor of public finances at the Faculty of Economics, said in the last Saturday’s annex: “There are data coming to the public about the enormously high salaries and awards of some who, in my opinion, are largely unjustifiable. That's a big problem. Such tremendously high wages and rewards trigger a debate on the modesty of minimum wages, the benefits of the worst-paid layers, poverty and the like. The proportion of citizens from the lower edge of the income scale has increased during this period. The situation has very bad consequences. Because of the demonstration effects, the private economy has problems, and wages in this sector are inffluent."
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u12	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u13	Would you allow me to ask you a final question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u14	I'm sorry, Dr. Bayuk. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u15	How do you imagine, Mr President, that this is possible in this country of your presidency and government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u16	I will treat everyone the same way when time runs out, I will wait for you to finish the sentence, and then I will be forced to point out that your time has run out and I will take your word in extreme force. Please stick to the agreed time so I don't have to do this. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u17	Nevertheless, I think, with what you have just said in response to my reply, it is necessary to say that these rules, the system of wage setting in companies owned by the majority of the state since 1998, and you have not changed it, either, when you were Prime Minister. These rules also remained in force at that time. However, it must be said that these rules are actually restrictive to set wages in accordance with the rules of the company manager, but restrictively so that managers in majority state ownership have relatively smaller salaries than comparable directors in the same sector. That's what this rule says if you look at it. Precisely with multiples, average wages and the like. The exact formulas are defined. In this interview, Dr. Stanovnik rightly pointed out the issue of the salaries of directors as such, not just those in state ownership, and the issue of wage differences. In this part, I agree with him. I agree that wages must be comparable, that wages must be within normal frameworks as of course applicable to all other citizens, including all managers in this society. In this case, however, we are talking about a specific policy, a specific system that has been in force since 1998. Perhaps these specific rules and standards and norms would be considered to discuss and see if they do not fit what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much. A second question for the Prime Minister will be raised by his colleague Pece. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u19	Your Honors are here! Even before the independence and adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Nationality Act has entered into force in our country. The 40th Article of the Act said that Slovenian citizenship can be acquired by anyone who naturally asks and fulfils only one condition. This is that on the day of plebiscite 23.12. has a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. 170,000 people, citizens of the former republics of Yugoslavia had the right to do so. 140,000 did it, 30,000 didn't do it. According to their own opinion, they did not apply for Slovenian citizenship. Data indicate that 11,000 of these people left Slovenia because they did not agree with Slovenia's independence and the way of life in a single country. Of course, 18,000 people, for speculative reasons - we need to know that at the time the times were different - decided to wait for the request. Because they did not know what was going to happen and whether Slovenia will be able to win over and what life will be like. In short, just for speculative reasons. In 1992, according to my assessment, Slovenia did the right thing by changing these people or by setting them a different status in the register, namely the register of foreigners. In short, she didn't erase them, but she changed their status. Slovenia's own legislation, including the law mentioned above, has been praised both by the UN and by the Council of Europe. We even received the mark that we belong to or that our legislation is in standard with them. However, in 2003 a Constitutional Court decision will come that casts a bad light on the independent legislation, even at the creation act itself. And the Constitutional Court's decision takes place in two directions. Firstly, the need for a new law, and secondly, for complementary decisions, which will become a huge country. It is estimated that what would happen if "injurers" filed complaints in the slogans, giving them the right to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, would result in 870 billion Slovenian tolls of high lawsuits. In other words, over half a million Slovenian Tolars will be taxed or burdened by every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Because of their, i.e. those, in the nicknames "foreigners", speculative hints and purposes in 1991 and 1992. And question: Is it true that Mr Krivic participated in the drafting of the law and sold it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the same gentleman who represents this society? And if this is true - and according to our information - does this not conflict with morality and the way in which the same person writes the law and, on the other hand, puts himself in the role of the one who will harm this country for over 870 billion Slovenian tolars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Pece. Please, Mr. Prime Minister. You must have a defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much for asking the question. So there is no doubt an extremely difficult issue in which there have been many words in the National Assembly and also the decisions of the National Assembly so far are clear. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the Constitutional Court has adopted a decision and that the Government must comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. There's no doubt about that. Accordingly, within the Ministry of the Interior, appropriate solutions are being drawn up, which will be debated within the Government's procedure, and then adopted appropriate solutions, and will also be brought to the attention of members of the National Assembly. As I said, the right solutions are being prepared at the moment, so it would be premature to talk about the concrete solutions to be contained in the marriage text. However, you have raised a very specific issue concerning the participation of Mr Matevža Krivica in the preparation of such legislation. Several experts were involved in the drafting of the Law. Experts who assisted the Ministry of the Interior with the information I obtained in the drafting of the legislation. According to the information I have and obtained, one of them was Mr Matevž Krivic, and it is likely that the Minister of the Interior will explain this more precisely later. However, according to the indications set out here, his professional position was not taken into account in the final text. That's a fact. With regard to the assessment of appropriateness or not, it is probably more appropriate to refer this question to the author of these comments and views than to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u22	Do you want to ask an additional question? Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u23	I appreciate that the threshold of the Slovenian government's participation is, of course, a disgrace. I am sorry to use this word, but that the Slovenian Government agrees that the person in the process, the legal representative of one society, is invited to participate in the preparation of laws in the same matter in which its decision or activities achieve that this country - I hope not - but that this country should pay 870 billion Slovenian tolars - more than half the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Rob, when you answered Mr Bajuk, you said the word "specific" twice in one sentence. Now I'm asking you or asking you for a really concrete answer with a yes or no. The Slovenian National Party requests the Government to disregard the Constitutional Court's decision at this time; to adhere to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the division of power into executive, legislative and judicial authorities, and to make additional decisions that will stand before this country - as we have already mentioned - several hundred billion Slovenian Tolars, first approach the new law. This time, do not invite a person to the new marriage, who also performs on other shores. Then issue sub-laws and have in mind, when preparing and writing these laws, the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and that you will maintain it in the law itself. In addition, I ask you to have a financial perspective when preparing the law itself. We estimate that the Constitutional Court's decision is to the detriment of our country, and we hope that this time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will draw up legislation and regulations and that, without law, it will go to issue or enforce the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision on the issue of supplementary decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u24	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u25	In this respect, it is particularly important to stress that the participation of the professional public is very important in the drafting of the legislative texts and that such practice is, of course, also applicable in future practice. Of course, it was probably entirely impossible for the Ministry of the Interior to know in advance how one of the experts involved in the drafting of the legislation would act subsequently and once his cooperation with the Ministry has been completed. So in this context, judging someone in advance, because he didn't know how someone else was going to act, it's unusual for me to think. What I would like to point out once again is that the Constitutional Court is part of the constitutional order in Slovenia and we are obliged to follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court and so will we.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u26	The third question will be raised by colleague Janez Janša, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! In 2000, the government of Dr. Andrej Bajuk demanded the replacement of the director of the tax administration Stojan Grijel in connection with the irregular situation in the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia and many of the irregularities detected. The then finance minister did not want to do so and in this he had the full and strong support of the then LDS opposition, the United List and also the majority of the media. The late Minister of Finance, it was you, Mr Rob, who, of course, kept it in the work of the tax administration. In 2000, when the proposed replacement of Director Stojan Gril was proposed, the tax debt according to the same administration amounted to 85 billion Slovenian tolars. Auditors of the Court of Auditors discovered 170 billion outstanding taxes two years later. The tax administration says a lot of this debt is irrecoverable. On the basis of the findings of the auditors of the Court of Auditors, this is true or not, as the records have been found to be extremely weak. If the debt is irrevocable, then why is it still in the records? At the same time, the Court’s auditor found the following shocking things. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, with its tax records, does not comply with the basic accounting principles and therefore data from these records are not reliable. Data on tax accounting of tax administrations are incomplete and unscheduled. The tax administration, for example, has no data on the calculated taxes on casinos. Strange - casino. On the other hand, they found over 210 million taxes paid in the tax administration, for which no one knows who paid them. The auditors suspect that this money is much more than it is, but because of the incomplete records, it is not even possible to determine. On the one hand, there are unrecovered taxes and on the other hand, there is an adjective paid by the taxpayers, but there is no telling who paid it. DURS, however, deducts taxes on the basis of internal instructions: one I, the other not. DURS is taxing on the basis of internal instructions that we do not know, arbitrarily. Do you imagine this highly arbitrary power of the rulings, who, without clear criteria, can write off certain taxes to others without clear criteria? All of this raises strong distrust among taxpayers and taxpayers, and the situation is unsustainable. Therefore, Sir, I ask you, as Prime Minister, how will you ensure equality of citizens before the law if you have not been able to do so even as Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you for the question. I'm aware of this report. I believe that everything needs to be done to ensure that this report is adequately responded to in the context of the response report for which Durs is given 60 days. In the context of the Ministry of Finance, appropriate groups and indebted persons have also been set up to scrutinise all these statements, which are now by the Court of Auditors and which will then also check the response report and, in particular, the plan of measures to be drawn up and presented by the tax administration. It is certainly worth paying special attention to. It is not true that we have not dealt with the issue of tax collection and the effectiveness of tax collection in the past. On the contrary, I have also requested in the past some international studies on the effectiveness of tax collection in Slovenia. If you look at the expertise prepared by foreign experts and experts such as the International Monetary Fund [[on the existence of a study]] , you will see that their assessment was that tax collection is above average effective in Slovenia. Finally, these were some of those assessments that also affected the final decisions, including the consideration of staff changes and moves within the tax administration. Studies on the comparability of the tax system in Slovenia and the European Union, for example, show [[You can look at this in economic movements or in specific studies concerning entry into the European Union]] to collect 0.5% of gross domestic product in Slovenia at the 1st point of value added tax and 0.36 in the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, the efficiency of tax collection in the Member States of the European Union is lower than in Slovenia, and this is actually one of the problems when entering the European Union. The review of taxes and debt by number available also clearly shows what dimensions are and how much debt is deducted from late interest in the structure, and how much of that debt is derived from the actual active debt that is emerging. According to these figures, this debt does not increase faster than income and is constant. Thus, data show that the share of the bookkeeping debt in the gross domestic product in Slovenia is 2% and has not changed in 2002 according to 2001 and is one of those shares that is lower among comparable countries in the European Union. The structure of debt by legal persons, natural persons, independent entrepreneurs and citizens also shows that this structure does not deteriorate and is relatively constant. From what I have said, of course, there is no problem in the tax administration, there are no problems and there is no need to take action. Of course, measures must be taken, but it must be aware that we have a relatively effective tax system, a relatively effective tax administration, which has obviously made some mistakes in its records; obviously, there are some shortcomings in the evidence if we see this now from the response report - if and if they are, and I believe that there are also responsible persons for this, then the appropriate moves will be made below.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Complementary question, colleague Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u31	Dear Mr. Robb! We have mainly effective taxpayers, they pay very disciplinedly, compared to some other countries, this has been found. But we do have a tax administration that collects data on which you said things were okay. However, the Court of Auditors for this information, which you have just provided, said: "The data on Dursa's tax accounts are incomplete and unscheduled. Dursa records do not meet basic accounting standards." Based on that, you're saying that everything is fine, based on the same data. In short, it has been found that the tax administration is not able to keep records in accordance with the rules and on the basis of these incomplete records you are now saying that the matter is right. The study by Dr Bole regarding the situation in Durs is not credible because Dr Bole is on the financial ministry's payroll. He makes tax forecasts and other analyses every month and is paid for it. This is not an independent profession that would have made different observations from the Court of Auditors. Let me draw your attention to the fact that the Court of Auditors was unable to deliver an opinion, nor a negative one, after this review in Durs, where things were so messy. This has been the case in the history of the Court of Auditors only once more when they audited a client of the Greens who had fallen apart. In these two cases alone, the Court of Auditors has not been able to deliver an opinion so far. In the case of the Greens which have fallen apart, and in the case of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which is during the period of operation when you were the Finance Minister there. I ask you: What will be the measures, no response!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u32	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you so much for what you said. First of all, with regard to the credibility of Mr. Bolet's studies. Each person can calculate the share of the gross domestic product of the taxes recovered, the gross domestic product and the comparison it makes with the Member States of the European Union. And if he does, then he'll see that he's holding on to what I said. Everyone can calculate this, this methodology is also explained in this study if you look at it. Second thing, you mentioned the Court of Auditors report. Then, please read the fourth page, where it explicitly says at the end: "Most of the differences between the amounts that should match, DURS explained, but we could not fully confirm their explanations." Well, it's not entirely settled. I agree that it is not regulated, and I agree that action must be taken. However, no one, even in this report, speaks about the lack of records. All differences between the records cannot be explained. And someone, if this is confirmed in the Durs response report below, will have to answer for it, there is no doubt about it. Finally, the International Monetary Fund has also done such a study on the effectiveness of the Slovenian tax system and tax administration and confirmed what I said before: that we have relatively effective tax collection. And this is not just from the citizens, as you probably intended to say and have declared your time. If you look at the data on this - the structure of the accounting debt and the accounting debt recorded compared to the tax revenue - then you will see that in legal persons from which the debt is collected and where the role of the tax administration is highest, the share of this debt is 3.9%. So the share is the lowest. In the part where we are talking about independent entrepreneurs and individuals, the share of this debt is 28.6%, 65% for those in agricultural activities and 25% for citizens - on average 6.8%. Thus we cannot think of who is he who is paying, who is he who is not paying the tax, and what the role of the tax administration is. You just need to look at the numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much. With this we have exhausted the part of this point when representatives of opposition parliamentary groups ask questions to the Prime Minister. We will continue with the questions that you are referring to ministers or ministers in the government. First, a question will be asked by colleague Poszonec to the Minister for the Environment or Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. The drinking water in Pomur is known to be heavily contaminated by the high use of pesticides. I think it would be necessary to start implementing such agricultural programmes to avoid excessive use of fertilisers and pesticides, but I have learned from the workers at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry that they do not have data on all water protection areas in Slovenia and in Pomurje as well. So I want to ask you: When are the programs for cleaner or clean water in Prekmurje going to take place? For even the inhabitants of Prekmur, Pomur, we have the right to a healthy and clean environment. I will ask the next question in relation to the results of the last census, as regards the decline in the number of members of the national communities. I would like to ask Prime Minister Rope a question, but I know that I can't, not because he thought that he had missed anything in his policy on nationality, but that his engagement and the whole government's approach could help to correct, in part, the current situation as regards nationality. The number of members of the Hungarian national community has decreased significantly from the last to the last census, i.e. by 22%. This figure is as much as the war in Croatia and Serbia has decimated the number of Hungarians. It is much higher than, say, in Transylvania, where this number in recent decades is only 5%, or in Ukraine - 2%. Of the 8 thousand members of the Hungarian national community, there are only 6235 of us left, and that is what happened in the wake of good national policy. These are now facts, not just feelings and fears on my part, as you thought at the time when I warned, begged, begged about the situation; due to economic lagging behind, due to infrastructure isolation due to demographic threats, due to the high unemployment rate caused by the displacement of young people. In fact, the Lendava Congregation has already arrived in its first place in respect of unemployment. I have to tell you, I'm not over-satisfied and unfortunately I was right. It's not just numbers, it's about people, it's about families, it's about nationalities. In 1918 there were 35 thousand of us, in 1953 about 11 and now about 6 thousand. There will be two more signatures and there will be no members of the Hungarian National Community in Slovenia. I believe that this will be very bad and that Slovenian policy should not afford it, as Slovenia has gained a lot of recognition at the time of its independence and entry into the EU, and it is because of its policy towards indigenous national communities that it should not afford it for human reasons. Therefore, I ask the government to draw up a plan immediately to awaken Northeastern Slovenia from a depressive state, to provide jobs, to ensure that intellectuals and young people find their future in this area, and that children will be born at home because we have lost too many generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much, colleague of the Possonians. Two questions, first the Minister for the Environment. Please, mag. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. You asked about the water security records. This record has been produced for many years at the level of the municipalities. The municipalities have drawn up the records by means of water protection decrees. In their re-examination, however, we found that some of these decisions - or I could say most of these decisions - are rather inaccurate, do not use exact partial numbers, but they are more written - say, "from this oak to that rock" and so on. All of this now needs to be put on a digital cadaver. That takes a lot of work. We may have underestimated the scope of this work when the water law was passed. All of this, however, is because now, from the water law onward, this state obligation is no longer a municipal obligation. This has been transferred to the country and, now, for the purposes of the agri-environment programme, where they are particularly sponsoring green agriculture in water protection areas, we are speeding up this record. In January, when we started this, we had only five trial cases, now by the end of March 880 of these water protection areas, 880 of those for which municipal decisions had been adopted since 1997, were a little more precise these decrees, the older decisions were more descriptive than I had previously tried to illustrate. Well, among these newer ones are those who lie in ethnically mixed areas. It is estimated, however, that the water protection areas for which municipal decrees were adopted before 1997 are from 1,400 to 1,500. We expect that completing this record will take us about a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u38	Please, Minister of the Interior, would you like to answer the part of the question concerning the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u39	I did not understand that colleague Pozsončeva addressed this second question to me, but because the written copy of this question mentioned our ministry, let me say that the Ministry of the Interior is not competent to address the area of nationality. However, I have, in preparation for this answer, checked the statistics and can only confirm that your data are correct. I think it would make sense for the competent Nationality Office to produce a report on this, which should cover several sources, for the government, and for the government to address this issue in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please, colleague Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you. I wonder, which ministry is then responsible for nationality? That's what I'm really interested in. That's one. Second, I would ask Minister Kopač: What is the situation in the water protection areas in Prekmurje? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u42	Minister, who wants to answer first? Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u43	The Nationality Office, as a government service, is responsible for the field of nationality.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you, Minister. Mag. Digger, Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you. Here we have to distinguish two types of water protection areas. One has been declared a water protection zone under the Water Act, where there are direct backdrops of different drinking water sources, for example; the other is an area declared by the Environmental Protection Act as an area where - i.e. - the "hazard area of aquifers and their hydrographic catchments". This area was established by the government last year - I think in November - by its regulation. It then established five larger areas in Slovenia, areas of endangered aquifers due to over-use of certain plant protection products. As you know, the government then banned the use of atrazine, and in general certain derivatives of atrazin in these water protection areas. If we're talking about Prekmurje, the plan or the map was clearly presented at the time. I can say that the total direct ice of Mure and the southern part of Prekmurje, about south of Murska Sobota, are declared an area with an endangered aquifer where the use of certain active substances from plant protection products is prohibited. All of them in Prekmurje, of course, I can't tell you right now. As I said, so far they have been recorded and placed on the cadastral 880, I don't know how many of them are specifically in the Prekmurje area, but this could be further explored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Pavel Rupar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! First, I want to know who will answer the question about the zoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u48	You addressed the question to the Minister of Agriculture. The minister didn't apologize to me, at least if I knew this moment, no. If you are not satisfied with the answer that you are obliged to provide in writing within 30 days, you can verbally repeat the question if you say so today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u49	I hope that he is somewhere close to coming, and I hope that he will hear the question, as I said, about the animal garden in Ljubljana during the journey. So, for a while now, there's been a controversy about the affair that's been going on there. In fact, I know that many will tell me that an animal garden is a matter of the Municipality of Ljubljana. However, I must say that given that I am an animal lover and that in Slovenia there are many of my fellow thinkers and scientists who care for them, who are aware that the animal garden in Ljubljana is the only animal garden in Slovenia, it seems right for me to speak in this regard also in the National Assembly and ask a few questions to Minister Booth, Minister of Agriculture or any of the representatives of the government. I myself expected that the saints who rule in Ljubljana by the United List and Liberal Democracy would respond to the controversy that is taking place, but I must say that I did not expect anyone to know how much engagement on their part, because this is not the SIB Bank, but it is not the Energy Bank, but it is the insurmountable, unprivatized - I will say - and in recent times a completely neglected animal garden, which is fighting the "pismevuh" itself. Strange things are happening in the zoo. I would expect the sister of former director of this zoo of Ljubljana's Liberal Democracy Councilwoman Marjeta Vese Valentinič to warn her brother or one of her co-conspirators that the situation should be settled - again, I will say, disappointment! In fact, in this animal garden, as we could read, animals disappear, and all indications indicate that those animals that are edible are disappearing. So, some bear disappears, some wild pig blanket disappears, and others disappear. I must say, I'm very glad the parrots aren't delicious if we don't eat that "eat" yet. But most likely - so the anarchy in this zoo is really catastrophic and I would ask the following questions. It has been found that the status of the zoo has not been regulated for more than 30 years. Everything that's going on about this, about the arrangement, is out of order. I'm asking the following questions. What is the Ministry and the Ministry preparing for action to address this situation? [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u50	My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u51	Why doesn't he show up - just to finish the sentence, I think I have the right. Why is it not proposed by the Ministry or government that perhaps the poor caregivers, [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u52	My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u53	The city municipality of Ljubljana has taken away the right to an animal garden and taken care of and to start caring for these animals, which are excused, of all merciful value [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u54	My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u55	Me, too. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u56	Let me interrupt. [[...]] Everyone also has to count the questions in time to do so. In writing or in a statement you have addressed the Minister of Agriculture, as I say, the Minister for Unknown Reasons is not present today at the meeting of the National Assembly. First, let me ask you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure whether you want an oral answer to your question. You insist that the oral answer to your question is given. This will include a question for the next meeting and the Minister is obliged to give us an oral answer. My colleague Ivan Mamić will ask the Minister of Culture the following question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Practice shows that Slovenian media space is not plural. The media "deprives" freedom of expression, does not allow a variety of thoughts and beliefs, the right work of journalists and objective information to the public. Media ownership and distribution networks are in the hands of one political option, so this is the case. In April 2001, the National Assembly adopted the Media Act. In the process of enacting the law, members of the opposition or coalition Slovenia, unfortunately, have unsuccessfully advocated the creation of a media fund aimed at pluralising and co-financing the implementation of public interest in the field of the media. The fact is that national television and all newspapers are set up before Slovenian independence, the rest are owned by one and the same political options - we know which ones. Unilateral privatisation of the media space did not take into account the fact that media funds were the money of all taxpayers in Slovenia, including those who disagree with the current image of the media space. The media fund would ensure the same starting positions of different political options. It would also allow the abolition of journalistic self-censorship, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United States of America had also pointed out in his report on democratisation in Slovenia in 2000. Madam Minister, I would like to ask: What strategy for the urgent pluralisation of Slovenian media space does your ministry have? The media law has set up an audiovisual media fund with the aim of implementing state support for the development of audiovisual production in the field of the media. I also wonder: How much money was raised in this fund and to whom was it directed; of course, how was it spent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamić. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u59	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for asking. Ensuring media pluralism is certainly one of the main concerns of the Ministry of Culture, especially in the field of media implementation policy. In the management of its policy, the Ministry of Culture derives mainly from Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, with particular attention to the following areas: ensuring cultural diversity, ensuring the diversity of media content and resources as well as regulation of the media market. All these and other measures to ensure pluralism are elaborated in detail in the media law, which you also mentioned and for which implementation is the responsibility of our Ministry of Culture. It will soon be two years, and the month of May, when the law was passed in the National Assembly, so we also carried out an analysis of the situation in the media field, which also shows that in some areas where our Ministry of Culture does not have a direct impact, the law has not yet been fully implemented. For example, there is still no strategy for the development of radio and television programmes, which is stipulated in Article 100 of the Act by the Council for Broadcasting to the Ministry of Culture. However, you asked me here after our mission and our tasks, so the special chapter of the Media Act is specifically intended to protect the plurality and diversity of the media, in particular from the point of view of ownership or management rights. Thus, the issuer or the owner of the diary cannot be the owner of the radio or television programme, or vice versa. There are also restrictions on issuers, but not on owners, in obtaining a share in another broadcaster or television programme in order to avoid a dominant position on the market. The law also specifies in very detail those who are management, capital or otherwise connected and restrict ownership or management rights. The law also restricts advertising or telecommunications and at the same time radio or television activities. According to the law, the Republic of Slovenia specifically supports the dissemination of programme content relating to the realization of the constitutional right of citizens or citizens of Slovenia, Slovenians worldwide, members or members of Slovenian national minorities in Italy, Austria and Hungary, the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma communities in Slovenia to information and information regarding the preservation of Slovenian national and cultural identity. The Ministry of Culture shall carry out a public tender on this basis each year to co-finance the creation of programme content and the development of technical infrastructure by means of the State budget. In 2002, 97 million tolars were available. From this call we co-financed the programme content of some printed media, although their applications were extremely low compared to radio, television and electronic programmes. The Commission was thus able to deal with the role of the Posavik Exemplar, the newspaper Vestnik of Murska Sobota and the newspaper Sava, the voice from Brežice, which were all supported. However, there was no application for the creation of a new newspaper during the application. In fact, the call for printed media from the country was co-financed by a total of 2 million 742 thousand 130. Let me mention, however, that only Norway, Sweden and Austria have implemented state aid from European countries so far to generally informative printed journals. In this way, the aid is shared with all the journals, and is increasingly only symbolically important for the Audiovisual Media Fund. As a special measure, the Media Act also introduced an audiovisual media fund. This is a budget item aimed at implementation in the field of media. The funding foreseen by the law is, however, budgetary resources and annual fees for the dissemination of programme content to be paid by broadcasters of radio and television programmes and the monthly fees for the technical dissemination of programme content to be paid by payers. In 2001 and 2002, only budget resources were available, slightly above 90 million, because non-budgetary resources are still subject to the Constitutional Court's judgment. Thus, only 97 million tolars were available for audiovisual media in 2002.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much. That was the answer to my colleague Mamić's question. The next question will be raised by a colleague of Silva Črnugelj, the Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's a lovely greeting to all present. I will refer the question today to Minister Tei Petrinov. Our civilization today is so complex, diverse, so diversified and powerful, and man is increasingly weak and lonely in relation to the state and its institutions. The protection of the sea, as well as the protection of human rights, which many times we feel so far away, is the protection of the consumer and the consumer protection policy itself one of the more concrete derivatives. Today's question I have focused on this particular area, because it seems so much more important to me, because violations in various areas can have a fatal impact on each individual, on his health, existence and more. In Slovenia we have relatively well-ordered consumer protection because we have a consumer protection law and a national programme. Unfortunately, however, the gap between the written and actual implementation of legislation is present in everyday life. Consumers are often left with no choice but to the courts. In the case of consumers and consumer disputes, however, judicial protection is generally ineffective, slow, long-term. The country does not have a consistent and effective policy in the area of consumer protection, the national programme is not being implemented and is also practically impractical, as it is general and principled. There is a lack of coordination of consumer protection policy in all other areas and in other government policies. In particular, civil society organisation is weak in this area. I wonder: What is the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consumer protection to non-governmental consumer organisations? Do you believe that sufficient resources are allocated to this area in the budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u62	Madam Secretary, Dr. Tea Petrin, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Good-bye to all of you. However, I thank Mrs Zupan for the question. The government certainly has a positive attitude towards the issue of consumer protection. In this respect, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia follows a model known by countries in the European Union, namely, that the government sector takes care of legislation, the design and management of consumer protection policies, while organisations that belong and are an important element of civil society deal with advice, information and consumer education within the meaning of their rights, in accordance with the legislation adopted. Consumer protection is the concept of non-governmental organisations defined by the Consumer Protection Act, which considers consumer organisations to be organisations that are registered as companies, establishments or other organisations. Currently, 12 organisations operate or are registered in Slovenia, either as societies or as institutions. The Consumer Protection Office shall co-finance the implementation of the public service in the field of general specialised consumer advice at national level carried out by two organisations and the general advisory activity of three organisations at regional level. The Office also co-financed several project activities of consumer organisations and a consumer magazine called the VIP magazine. This year, too, the Office will continue this policy by paying more attention to monitoring the performance of public services. The invitation to tender for this year will be issued as soon as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopts an annual consumer protection programme. I think it'll be as soon as possible. Activities to grant concessions in the field of advisory activities will also be launched this year. However, as regards the government's attitude towards the consumer magazine, the so-called VIP, I can say that, under the consumer protection law and the national consumer protection programme for 2001-2005, we have granted or issued a regulation on the implementation of the public service in the field of consumer protection. That Regulation lays down the conditions and procedure for the award of a concession for the performance of a public service in the field of the issue of a magazine for consumers. In accordance with the Regulation, the magazine is financed up to 50 % of all costs. That's as much as possible. If we look at how this was foreseen this year, up to 40 percent of all costs are foreseen, that is to say 20 million tolars. This is within the scope of the options available. If the marriage rate is 50%, I think 40%, given the known state of available resources, is probably more than satisfactory within the given options. I also assess that the government, exemplary and comparable to the European Union, will regulate the area of independent consumer information in the long term, as we are aware that the financing of the magazine, if we want it to be independent of the manufacturer, is, therefore, from any advertising, etc., that most of the funding comes from the Consumer Office. That's it. The invitation to tender is open and will be published as regards the award of a licence for the issue of a magazine when the government adopts an annual consumer protection programme for 2003. I must say that this programme is in coordination between the departments, of course, once the government measure to balance the budget has ceased.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The question asked you, colleague of Montenegro, who wants a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much for such a comprehensive answer. I have another question. You are probably aware that the European Commission has adopted a consumer protection strategy from 2002 to 2006. This substantially changes part of consumer protection policy in some segments, precisely because of the different affairs that have arisen in Europe or in the European Union. I wonder: Is the government planning a revision of the national programme? Given that you are aware that in the field of education and education, and in particular in the field of research, you have done a lot of cooperation and work, I think you are aware of the very great need to harmonise this area, and given that today is actually the beginning of Slovenian books days and that there are a lot of manifestations in this area, or that you are planning to set up an intergovernmental commission that will coordinate consumer protection. While consumer protection is somehow a substantive part of the work of your ministry, it is substantively linked to all areas of activity of all ministries in the whole and the whole government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, would you like to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much for complementing the question. As regards this national programme, preparations are under way to complement or improve this national programme accordingly. It's in this year's program. And second of all, as far as this intergovernmental commission is concerned. I fully agree with your observation that the issue of consumer protection is actually affecting all areas covered by other government departments. Such a Commission would be very welcome and would think about it, but I can also inform you that there is an amendment, a regulation in the bodies and that, in the context of these changes, there is also a discussion on the best possible placement of the Consumer Protection Office or its transformation into an office, a unit that meets all these broader requirements, saying, covers as wide a range of areas as possible concerning the consumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Secretary-General of the Government would like to raise a question from his fellow Member, Mr Barovic. You have the floor, Comrade Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by Decision No 907-05/2001-16, decided to contribute humanitarian aid to the population affected by the Iraq war and to participate in post-war rehabilitation in war-affected areas. In its letter No 914-03/2001-7 of 10 April 2003, the government said that government activities would take place in two phases; in the first phase in the form of humanitarian aid and in the second phase in the cooperation of Slovenian companies in the post-war reconstruction and demining of Iraq. The same letter states that the Republic of Slovenia does not have the necessary infrastructure and logistics to enable humanitarian aid to be implemented in direct form and refers to UNICEF. In my opinion and in the opinion of colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, we have not yet experienced so much duality, dishonesty and transfer to Slovenian citizens. Reasons: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has signed the Vilnius Declaration, you do not want, indirectly supported the attack on Iraq. She indirectly supported the destruction of homes, houses, cultures and, as a result, indirectly supported the poverty of women, children, elders, and people, and she even received some money for it. After destruction, however, through Unicef, people receive their bills, and these bills are given to poor Slovenians and Slovenians. And proof: I hold in my hands the bill sent to a woman who, after 37 years of work disabled first with a pension of 63,000 tolars. There's still a lot of similar people. Evidence is possible. I ask the Secretary-General of the Government: How much will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia really help people whom, I repeat, in my opinion and assessment of the Slovenian National Parties indirectly hurt, but if we are already asking for money from the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? And because you thought that maybe no one would be so bold as to ask or brush up on Unicef to raise money for poverty - it's not true, we just want to clear things up. From all of us Slovenians, the government strictly requires very specific programmes for monetary assistance, which the country then provides to Slovenians and Slovenians for employment. I'm asking: What a concrete programme and source the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has for such assistance even at a time when it is reducing the budget and when we are in so-called financial restrictions throughout Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Mr. Secretary General, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I would say I'm a little sorry that you asked me this question, because perhaps the Foreign Minister in particular would know you much better and say more about this topic. However, as I say, I can answer some of the fundamental dilemmas myself. Above all, I must deny that Slovenia, the Slovenian Government, Slovenian citizens, have any involvement, even indirectly, in the destruction of the home and any development of the humanitarian disaster in Iraq. On the contrary, the Slovenian State, the Slovenian Government, has been monitoring the situation at all times and has also been involved among the first in humanitarian aid and reconstruction efforts in Iraq. Since they had previously quoted the Government's conclusion, it would also be correct to say that it also contains an answer, from where the funds allocated by the Government to UNICEF and to the specific action of the Human Security Network are for humanitarian aid, amounting to 31 million and 15 million tolars. This is a reallocation within the budget reservation. Why these organizations, and why not, as you said, to some, if I understand correctly, to local organizations that would directly share help in Iraq? I think the answer is also relatively simple. These are those organisations that care for Iraq's assistance and have also developed the first with appropriate humanitarian programmes to help children in Iraq in particular. On the second question, however, I could say that Slovenian diplomacy is primarily monitoring developments in the world, not only the situation relating to the situation in Iraq alone, but also the wider international response to reconstruction. Here I can also ensure that Slovenian diplomacy will provide the Slovenian economy with as much information as possible to enable it to be included in the reconstruction of Iraq. Of course, Slovenian companies will have to prove their competence for these transactions in the first place, and the Slovenian state will, of course, encourage such integration into postwar reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much. My friend Barovic wants to ask a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I thank the Secretary-General for his reply. However, allow me, Your Honor, the Secretary-General. With its signature, the Slovenian government joined a coalition with which the United States of America boasted. In particular, I read the newspaper and watch TV, including in Japan: the Republic of Slovenia. In the Security Council, Slovenia did not take into account evidence that there is no such weapon or other weapon. These are the facts. Otherwise, Madam Secretary-General, perhaps it would be necessary for this issue to be addressed to anyone else, not you. However, do you think that Slovenia, the country, could prove its humanity when it was not supposed to sign the Vilnius Declaration and help people in such a way before the war after the war? And that. I will be happy if Slovenian companies are able to hire new people and work. But unfortunately, we Slovenians have done a great deal in Iraq in the past. And that's for all of us to think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u74	Would you like to complete your response, Mr. Secretary-General of the Government? You have a chance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I do not think that it is necessary to repeat the government's views on this issue, as this issue has been raised by more eminent and responsible people, including the Prime Minister himself. The fact is, even through its diplomacy, the Slovenian government has worked very hard not to see war happen and to resolve the issue of Iraq, the Iraqi crisis within the United Nations, even united by the European Union's reaction. I therefore, of course, once again reject any insinuation that Slovenia, with its foreign policy and its decisions, would contribute in any way to any event in Iraq. However, of course, I must also deny the information provided by your question as if Slovenia were a member of the Security Council. I must say that Slovenia is no longer a member of the Security Council. She was a member, and this was very active, and she also presided over him over a period of time, according to many UN Member States very successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General of the Government. The next question will be raised by my colleague Vnučec to the Minister of Finance. You have the floor, please. Mr. Secretary General, did you turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Respectable members and members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions. The government has recently taken certain measures to balance the 2003 budget, due to deficit coverage and austerity measures. At the same time, direct budgetary consumers: ministries, offices used this information, but those who had this information, and a few hours before the provisional suspension of commitments into the state budget or after the domestic blockade or freezing of payments from the state budget, used and concluded certain contracts in an unknown number. The most challenging was the contract to build a hangar for a luxury government aircraft, which we pointed out, among the first members of the Youth Party's parliamentary group, the irrationalness of such work. Here it now turns out that these ten billion, as much as a plane is worth, are missing in this budget. On the other hand, the country or direct budget consumers, such as ministries, are subject to the same laws as those applicable to citizens. This means that in the event of a delay in payments, late interest should be paid, which is not visible in the entire budget, but is hidden in the items of direct budget consumers. I therefore find this question of how much these late interest is due to such or other freezings or the suspension of payments by state institutions in 2002 and 2001 very comparable to determining how rational this measure is or whether it has any basis in economic analysis. Does not such a freezing measure already place the entire budget for 2003 on an unrealistic ground at the beginning of the year? When he was planning, he was not careful, or he could be said to have been very political. However, the errors of this decision will, of course, be paid by all citizens, because at the end of the day, these late interest rates will be imposed so much that this measure by the government, or it is only a cover-up of the real austerity measures that should be. On the one hand, we make a very expensive hangar and on the other hand it is saved where we find that there are major problems, such as, not the Ministry of Home Affairs. According to my intel, criminals only get pennies, don't get a whole pen, but they have to get their own case.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Please, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Member, thank you for the question. First of all, it may be possible to begin by answering the question whether planning at the time the budget was adopted last December was realistic or not realistic. I would say that it was real because all the international institutions, all the countries since last December, are significantly lowering their estimates of economic growth this year. One of the biggest economic growth reductions is the reduction by the International Monetary Fund for Germany, which is 1.8 percentage points, from 2.3 to 0.5. This is said to be true if we look at the global world economy, these assessments are declining, and practically in December since then the government has not been able to know what will happen in this first quarter. From this point of view, this was a purely objective fact. With regard to your questions on the amount of late payments paid by these budgetary balancing measures, it is essential: the basic purpose of the measures to suspend the implementation of the budget provided for in Article 40 of the Public Finance Act is to prevent new commitments from being made to the budget and not to stop the payment of commitments already made. So all contracts signed are normally implemented. Article 40 provides, inter alia, that if, during the financial year of the revised economic developments, the revenue of the budget is reduced, which has happened this year, the government may suspend the execution of individual expenditure for 45 days. Under Article 40, paragraph 1, the government can do 3 things by means of temporary suspension measures: stop the taking of commitments, this year the government has done; propose extended contractual payment deadlines; this is not proposed by the government; and stop the reallocation of the budgetary resources necessary for the taking of commitments, which is also accepted by the government. The measures to balance the budget adopted by the Government do not delay the payment of the obligations of the State or the budgetary users. All the measures envisaged by the law, which the Government has taken to balance the budget in the process, to prepare the budget balance, are aimed at halting the takeover, as I have already mentioned, of new commitments under the current budget and also of the following year. Their aim is to ensure that the free rights of spending on budget items are not overrun, as we call it, until the government takes a decision on priority programmes, which are indeed necessary to implement in the changed macro-economic situation, or until it sets out a proposal for a budget rebalancing. Only free spending rights can be used by ministries to draw up the budget balance to reduce budgetary expenditure. In doing so, it is necessary to say that the Government agrees to continue the procurement procedures when the opposite would entail additional costs, that we have adopted an additional decision, that it also gives consent to the launch of public contracts for purposes whose delay would cause difficulties and the execution of individual tasks, and that was an additional decision, and for specific urgent tasks, the Government may issue an agreement on the conclusion of the contract. Thus, we have tried to limit as much as possible the secondary negative consequences that you have been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much. My colleague's grandson wants to complete the question, please. Mr. Secretary, I'll ask you to turn it off, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. You didn't answer my question. I asked how much the state paid in full late interest for last year and before last year. Not only for freezing, but also for disrespecting payment deadlines. I'm interested in the total. How much, in tolars. I am asking this because I would like to get an image of how much your freezing measure will contribute to the correction of the budget deficit and, on the other hand, it is causing new costs. The general public is of the opinion that this freezing measure will cause significant economic damage and also increase economic growth due to increased payment non-discipline, which is the main problem of the whole of the European Union. That's what we all agree on. In our case, however, the country itself is also creating it because of such measures, which do not have some European real analysis. That's why I'm interested in the exact sum for last year, which I'm sure you have, but if you don't get it, if you don't, you'll answer now. At the referendum for the European Union, citizens decided to join the European financial system. Here we sometimes feel that we are still acting or that our finances are more Byzantine than European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u82	Mr. Minister, would you like to complete your answer? Please, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u83	I agree with you that the problem is late payments, but it is not in this area that you have just pointed out. There can be no reason in this area. However, it is a problem if, at the end of the year, the budget is not large enough and payments are transferred to the following year or for any other reason. Therefore, it is necessary to distinguish when this is due to the application of Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, where I have told you that there can be no cause and when there are other causes. For these other reasons, we can provide you with information in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Petan to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Labour. You have the floor, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior. What measures will the Ministry take to meet the obligations imposed by the Constitutional Court decision on the issue of so-called "deleted"? I would like to point out that this is mainly about people who did not want to accept citizenship. I say, above all, it means that they are also different there, not to generalise everything, but the vast majority of them are. On the other hand, by a decision of the Constitutional Court, there should be no controversy because this decision is final. I take that into account, and that's why I'm asking: What happens now that the decision is essentially valid? The decision will have financial implications in particular in the implementation. These will probably be the most important, most serious for the country. If all of this number is erased, somewhere between 15 and 18 000 appears a number, take advantage of the option that such a decision gives them under our Slovenian legislation, the costs of some quick calculations will amount to, say, 600 billion tolars. A colleague in front of me was talking about 800 billion. After all, it doesn't matter, it's a terrible big number. If everyone takes advantage of this opportunity that the law gives them. I'm saying if they do. But I don't know one who wouldn't take advantage of the possibility of getting the money because the decision is retroactive. And of course, all the consequences will also be retroactive. Because I'm aware of this problem. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, because you're going to have to cook this mess somehow. You didn't cook it, but in the area you're covering, you're going to have to take certain measures, so I'm asking, what are the concrete measures going to be, or have you come this far? Those who have cooked the most, if they are not interested in the financial consequences or the consequences of this decision, I do not think that this is acceptable for the citizens and for me too. So I'm asking you what measures you're taking. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u86	Please, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u87	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, I thank you for this question, which is of the utmost importance in Slovenia, and we also deal intensively with it, not only in the Ministry of the Interior, but also in interdepartmental cooperation. The decision of the Constitutional Court is known and has two direct consequences. In the first part, the Constitutional Court orders the Ministry of the Interior or the Government to prepare a new law to regulate the status of citizens of other countries of the former Yugoslavia or otherwise to regulate their status as a law known to us in 1999. This law, so-called ZUS DDD [[short]] in 1999, the Constitutional Court declared it to be unconstitutional in several points. According to the Constitutional Court, the main point of non-constitutionality is [[both in explanation]] the retroactive effect of the acquisition of a status. The 1999 Act did not legislate the retroactive validity of the acquired foreign status. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, however, this should be done. The second point of non-constitutionality, if I limit myself to the most important, is the regulation of the issue of suspension of residence for applicants of this status. The Constitutional Court has put forward an explanation for the fact that a one-year stay in Slovenia for an applicant for foreign status does not constitute a interruption or is not considered to be an interruption and requires the legislator to regulate it in a law which must be issued on the basis of the finding of constitutional non-compliance with the current law. There's also some of these inconsistencies. I will not explain them further, but I would limit myself to another task given by the Constitutional Court, where, in fact, it imposed, somewhat surprising the constitutional practice that we have known so far, the executive authorities, specifically the Ministry of the Interior, to complete the decisions issued so far on the status of the alien. Let me say that the Constitutional Court has in mind some 7,300 decisions issued so far, and from 1992 to 2003, decisions issued on foreign status, by several laws: two or three foreign laws [[after two or a further third]] and under a notable law regulating the status of nationals of other countries in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. In short, it's about 7,300. "Ex lege" is said to have been ordered by the Constitutional Court to issue these decisions following an official decision. To your very direct question what we will do will be answered by the following. We are preparing, as the Prime Minister has already said, information for the government, which will include two: a review of the tasks imposed by the Constitutional Court, in more detail, and secondly, we will also review the financial implications imposed by the law, which according to today's data are not measurable All that we have heard today can be calculated in accordance with certain predetermined assumptions, which no one can say today, how accurate they are. The amount of damage or the amount of compensation that will be incurred by the beneficiaries or those who consider that they have been harmed will depend on their claims, and it will therefore be necessary to assess in detail the number of rights associated with the status of the foreigner in the framework of what possible compensation claims will be taken into account and, subsequently, more qualified to assess any damage to the country. Depending on that, the next steps will be taken. In any case, we will be preparing or preparing the marriage. We have not yet begun to issue decisions because we believe that we are obliged to provide the government first with comprehensive information on the administrative and financial consequences of this constitutional decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u89	I am very much in agreement with you, especially that the financial implications may not even be measurable. It is true that after some quick calculations, I cited 600 billion Slovenian tolars, a colleague of 800 billion. Either way, it's an awful lot of numbers. Every Slovenian in this case should already have a headache as to how we're going to get there. Just by the way. This would mean that every Slovenian citizen will have to pay 300 to 400 thousand tolars, from the newborn to the oldest pensioner. Or maybe 1 million per family. I therefore hope that you will not come up with an idea in the government to send every Slovenian family a check for 1 million tolars that you should pay for this Constitutional Court decision. I hope you'll really appreciate that in the government. I would also like to point out the weight in this case. That would also mean that such a number and there will not be a large deviation, but I would like to be wrong because I would really rather see them be smaller numbers, but, unfortunately, 100,000 students could receive a scholarship for about 4 years. If there's 80,000 or 120,000, it won't make much difference. This means 600 to 800 billion Slovenian tolars. I hope that you will really consider in the government what measures you will take, but this is sad for Slovenia. Now, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask you another question. Unless you want another answer, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u90	You have 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u91	I have two questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u92	I know. But your time will run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u93	The second question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and the Family. I ask: Is it possible, in any case, that a person who, under the law, has the status of a veteran of the war for Slovenia has a lower pension than it would have been if a veteran did not have this status. And in other words, the one who fought for Slovenia has a smaller pension than if he didn't fight. Is that possible in any case?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you very much. First, if he so wishes, you will be answered by an additional Minister of the Interior. You want a word? Please. And then there's the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u95	I agree that the dimension, including the material dimension, to this issue calls for a very thorough consideration. What is more, what are these dimensions, we will be able to speak more precisely when the analysis of the foreign status decisions so far has been made, as far as they have been issued from 1992 to 2003. We expect this analysis to be produced within a few weeks, and then we can talk more about numbers. Until then, neither your numbers nor your colleague, Pečet, can be confirmed. These are only estimates that are calculated according to some assumptions, which can later be shown to be incorrect. I only assure you that we will deal very comprehensively with this question and find answers to it, taking into account all the consequences that have been calculated.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Dr. Dimovski, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I answer your question as follows: this is not possible. A war veteran who fought for Slovenia cannot in any way receive lower pensions than it would under the law on pension and disability insurance. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides for the amount of the pension, while the War Veterans Act specifies only the pension age. The pension period for the period in which the conditions under which the status of a veteran of war was obtained and if it was insured under the pension and disability insurance law, shall be deemed to be such as insurance under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. If he was not insured under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act at the time, this would be considered a double. The War Veterans Act does not therefore provide for the amount of pensions received, but it does refer to the amount determined under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Pohorec will also raise the question to the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am referring my question to the Minister of the Interior concerning the transfer of administrative matters to NGOs and to economic society. The State has already transferred certain matters under the authority of the State Administration, in part or perhaps in full, in the form of a public mandate on NGOs and economic society. Thus, for example, we can do in addition to a technical examination of the registration of a motor vehicle on an authorised service owned by a private owner, for example, or owned by civil entities such as the Automotive Association of Slovenia. Thus, the number of administrative matters for registration of motor vehicles in administrative units has decreased. The delegation of powers to NGOs and companies also reduces the scope of work in the state administration, specifically in administrative units. This has also resulted in technological surpluses in state administration units where there is no such possibility of flexible redeployment to other jobs. At the same time, statistics are kept on the number of tasks per unit or employee and on the number of employees per administrative unit. NGOs and companies that have been awarded concessions to carry out administrative matters employ "their" people in these parts, in accordance with the increasingly established principle of relationships, knowledge and related relations. I therefore ask the following questions, Minister of the Interior responsible for the administration of the State, Dr Council of Bohinca. Which matters falling within the competence of the State Administration have been partially or fully transferred or are being transferred from the State Administration to NGOs and companies? Does the transfer of tasks and powers for administrative matters in the contract also provide for the obligation to take over a certain number of employees from administrative bodies? In particular, how many of these are there? What is the programme for the further transfer of tasks from the powers of the state administration to NGOs and companies, as it is informally said that more such matters will be transferred. What will the state do to ensure that workers who are thus out of work are provided with a second job or what will be concretely done with redundant workers in administrative units? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this matter. The so-called privatisation or meeting of public services is one of the concepts of the rationalisation of the state administration, and we therefore support the efforts of the various ministries in this area and are within the objectives of the reform of the state administration. Of course, there are dangers involved, as you point out in your question. I would like to say that the privatisation of public services, despite the granting of concessions or the granting of public authority, does, however, retain control and responsibility for the implementation of these services within certain standards or scope and quality. We have quite a few cases in the past years of this process. I would like to remind you of the adoption of the Notariat Act in 1994 and the transfer of certifications to notaries by previous administrations in the following year. In the area of my responsibility for internal affairs, I can cite 3 cases. One of these was introduced by the law on detective activity. This is the granting of licences to detectives and nostrations or certificates, certificates of educational programmes carried out, similar in the field of private protection. In both cases, this shall be granted to the relevant chamber, for private protection or to the detective chamber. The case that you have mentioned is the registration procedures for motor vehicles, also for some two years now, is implemented when different administrative services, from vehicle registration, to the registration of technical changes, to changes in owners, ownership transfers and so on, are transferred from administrative units to authorised service organisations, in parallel with the process of increasing the number of these authorised service organisations. In recent years, we have managed to significantly increase the number of service organisations and thus reduce the way to citizens who need such services daily. This process is still ongoing and is not yet complete. A number of administrative units have still not been transferred or are still merely managing these administrative services due to human resources and infrastructure constraints. Our aim is also to provide for a new regulation of the Road Traffic Safety Act, which we will submit to the National Assembly in a short time to continue to take a step towards "acquiring" such procedures, from now on only the driver or the vehicle and its registrations, also on those tasks relating to the driver of education in this regard and so on. In this regard, it is also proposed to establish a special public agency which will grant public powers, concessions and contract with private organisations, both authorised service organisations and, in some cases, with vehicle vendors, where the vehicle buyer could already arrange certain registration procedures with the seller. However, it is necessary to amend the law. The remaining two questions, both very well-founded and up-to-date. I fully agree and, where possible, we are directing that, together with the concession or authorization, the co-contractor also assumes the obligation to take over the workers. For there are a number of specialised administrative procedures known only to people who have been employed in the administrative unit so far. It is also what you have indicated that surpluses already occur in administrative units in this regard. Let me say that we have redirected the surpluses relating to registration procedures to those areas in the administrative units that are lagging behind. This is mainly the area of denationalisation and some other areas. Let me say that in some administrative units there are very large delays or they go to hundreds and they have several months. Therefore, the human resources surplus, which will be created in this way, will be very welcome and these allocations will also be made and have already been made. Several employees in administrative units will also have to carry out tasks in this area later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following question will also be addressed to you by Dr Bohinc, asked by her colleague Ana Marija Tisovic. Excuse me? You want a follow-up question? Please, Comrade Pohorec, I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u103	I'm happy with the answer today. The problem is that in these areas, as I mentioned above, registration of motor vehicles and similar, there are more or less workers or workers with a lower level of education and these cannot be put to work for denationalisation or administrative procedures where at least higher or higher vocational education is required. There's probably a problem here. The problem is that when work is gradually moving away from administrative units, not so much at once, but the number of administrative matters is gradually falling and workers remain there. However, statistics on the number of administrative matters per employee show that there are too many employees. This impression must be made before someone unjustly gets the title 'you no longer work and there are too many of you in some department' because his work is moving away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u104	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u105	It took some time to explain the regulation of technological surpluses in the Civil Servants Act. Let me say that last year the National Assembly adopted for the first time a law regulating this issue within the framework of the Institute of Reorganisation in a meaningful manner as is the case with the private sector. In any event, the process of rationalisation and reorganisation of the state administration, which we are leading in the framework of public administration reform, may also be subject to technological surpluses in the state administration. This is why the Law on Public Servants has detailed the procedures for the protection of workers in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u106	That's it. In fact, I now invite my colleague Ana Maria Tisovic to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Welcome government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for Dr. Bohintz. After this May, a call will be issued for the Slovenian Personnel Selection Service, which will also be open to Slovenian citizens who will run for permanent posts of administrators, translators and assistants in various institutions in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg. It seems to me that it is contrary to the principle of equal opportunities for the government to act at the expense of taxpayers to allow a handful of already employed voters in the state administration to prepare for an extremely demanding call and competition. They can be educated at the Administrative Academy, which, according to the Fast Stream programme, prepared for the competition with lectures, transitional examinations of tests, personal conversations and advice, while it intends to issue a brochure for all other interested citizens and to provide on the website further advice from individuals who have already done this test. In this way, all those who are not employed in the public administration, but who would still like to work in the European institutions, are in an unequal position. I therefore ask the Minister: Will the government, on the basis of the invitation to tender, also elect and co-finance any other institutions or organisations that will prepare interested or those that the government wants to inform only through prospectuses, or in what way will it do so for all others who are opposed to civil servants in an unequal situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much, colleague Tisovic. Please, Mr. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u109	I am grateful for this question because I have the opportunity to present the information that the government has been implementing a so-called strategy for improving the skills of our personnel before joining the European Union for the third year. This is a document adopted by the Government in August 2000, during the chairmanship of Mr Bajuk. This is a very useful document, which is the basis for, as I say, we have been leading various forms of education for the third year, which is expected to contribute to improving the skills of our people in connection with the entry into the European Union. These are the personnel who will have to communicate with Brussels daily and work in the offices in Slovenia, these are the personnel who will have to attend different forms of coordination or meetings in Brussels, and these are also the personnel that will be selected on the invitation to tender and sent to Brussels. Let me say that Fast Stream is only one of the five programmes based on this strategy and that only in 2002 1561 state administration employees were involved in these training programmes for Europe, in various forms of multi-day training. In 2001, 11 officials were included in the programme, 20 in 2002 and tendering is still ongoing in 2003. Unfortunately, there is no great interest in integration into the Fast Stream government among officials, especially not among their superiors, because they are generally the best people and are very useful in their environment on the various projects that ministries have. For the country of Slovenia, it is indispensable that we have highly qualified individuals who will perform the most demanding tasks in Brussels and will therefore have much greater opportunities to succeed in the competition you are talking about. Let me tell you something from Great Britain. In fact, this competition is extremely demanding. In Britain, only 1% of those who applied for the invitation failed to take the Fast Stream course before, and 25% of those who completed the Fast Stream. In fact, those who will complete this course have greater opportunities, but I am sure that the number of people that Slovenia will have to send to Brussels will be significantly greater than what we will be able to train through the "fast stream" but within what we train through various forms of training. I said there were 1,561 last year alone. Or maybe another piece of information. In 2002, the administrative academy within the Ministry of the Interior carried out a total of 5,890 different forms of training for civil servants of different categories, which only indicates that the range of different educational forms between officials is very wide and that these people participating in these courses will be able to compete more effectively in the European Employment Competition. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u110	Do you want to ask an additional question? Please, colleague Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. However, if I understand correctly, this is where you educate with taxpayers' money as chief civil servants. What, though, do those who are not civil servants want to sign up for this competition and take this course? Who pays them, they have to pay themselves, or how? Here I see unequal possibilities, unequal possibilities. If you can answer that for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u112	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u113	Of course, the public administration with taxpayers' money provides training not only for running for the competition but also for the more successful performance of its work, exclusively for public sector employees or public officials. To the others neither has the right nor is this justified in any law in order to provide education for European competition also for people employed in the private sector. They're just gonna have to do things their way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A colleague of Gasparini will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'm gonna ask you a question. France Booth, in relation to maritime fisheries. I will start with titles that we could read in the newspapers, as well as "Black Week for the Maritime Fisheries Industry", "The Fish Company sold two out of four fishing boats", "The Delamaris Company became not a sales competition", "Fifteen workers without a job". This is just a few headlines from a number of alarming reports on the state of marine fisheries and the fishing processing industry in Slovenia. I myself, when adopting the Law on Maritime Fisheries and adopting amendments to the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, drew attention to the catastrophic situation in marine fisheries and the fishing processing industry. For years, the fishermen themselves, representatives of the fishing processing industry and representatives of the community on the coast have also been alerting this. We all know that the crisis in maritime fisheries and the processing industry began in 1991 from Slovenia's independence. However, in 1992 the Slovenian state decided to help the industry, also because of Slovenia's desire to preserve the nature of the Mediterranean and maritime state. Unfortunately, the crisis has only deepened. It reached its peak just after the adoption of the new Maritime Fisheries Act by selling two fishing vessels to Fish, symbolising our fisheries. I've only got four, 50% lost. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Minister, and is also responsible for marine fisheries, is not responding to this catastrophic situation at all. This fact also reinforces the attitude of the Head of the Department for freshwater fisheries and aquaculture at the Ministry of Marine Fisheries and this issue in general. Today, there are public statements that we are running too much circus around the sea fisheries so that there is not a lot of help from the country. Dear Minister, I ask you to give a clear answer to the following question to the border fishermen, the fishing industry workers and the people of the coast: What kind of circus do we run around the marine fishermen, and why is there too much? Why seamen cannot promise much assistance from the country, but they can promise farmers such that they will gradually raise direct payments in 2007; and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] it's true. [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The European Union? [[...]] Is the Ministry you run wanting to do it at all? [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] fisheries, fishing processing industries [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u116	Gasparins [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u117	and in your opinion, is the Republic of Slovenia also a Mediterranean maritime country? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u118	Unfortunately, time has run out, so I invite Minister of Agriculture, Minister Booth. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. First, I would apologize to the appreciative assembly for the delay at the beginning of the unexpected extension of a conversation. As far as these questions are concerned. First of all, these things need to be explained exactly as they are. Why is there no such support as agriculture? Because there is only one common policy in the European legal order that allows subsidies and commands them on behalf of direct payments, this is the area of agriculture. That's why he has half the rule of law. Fishing does not allow for possible forms of payment, such as direct payments in agriculture for example, that is to say that these support cannot be given because it is not allowed and is not paid by anyone in the European Union, because the European Union's legal order in this area is different within the framework of the common fisheries policy. It is also unknown to any other industry. This is the object or reality of the European Union's common policies. Second. Under the European acquis, export refunds on fish or fish cans shall not be paid. These export refunds are now up to, I think, up to 12 tolars per can and will be abolished on the date of entry into the European Union. Croatia pays, of course, because it is not even a candidate for entry into the European Union and has a completely different legal framework and, of course, a completely different, much different policy with the European Union. Support shall be permitted in the restructuring of the fishing fleet, but not in all parts and everywhere where we are talking about safety at work, the replacement of fishing gears which do not comply with new requirements, the diversion to other activities and the diversification of fishing. These are the forms that are allowed. Of course, support in the form of so-called safe food in the food industry is also allowed. We have one case in Slovenia, this is Delamaris. It is very important that Slovenia retains the fishing tradition, but it must be made very clear here that Slovenia cannot have the measures implemented by Croatia because they are not allowed under the European acquis. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has allocated 200 million to the fisheries processing industry over the last three years to modernise processing lines in order to increase their competitiveness when entering the European Union. As we say, we pay 12 SITs per can, which means about 30 million tolars per year. This will continue until we enter, even though we know that when we enter, it will be extinguished. Furthermore, in the negotiations for the rural development programme I have achieved as the only candidate country among the ten candidate countries, although we also have other countries that are fishing entering, which under the pre-accession aid Sapard can pay for the restructuring of the food industry in this area. Unfortunately, to this day, Delamaris has not applied. It still has the opportunity to do so this year and until the date of entry into the European Union. Next. Why were two vessels destroyed? Because that's what the company decided to do. I apologize for the sale of two vessels. Because that's what the company decided to do. If they had not been sold this year, these vessels could never have been sold again, because in the framework of the European acquis, sales are not allowed and are contrary to certain common fisheries policies. However, the aid for destruction would not be justified because it would not have had sufficient annual fishing days, it would take at least 70 days. We will spend about 60 million this year in restructuring the first two remaining fishing vessels. We will give 23 million additional special aid, which is not allowed in the European Union after entry, in order to pay compensation to fishermen last year on the basis of an agreement Drnovšek - Račan, because they were unable to fish because Croatia did not allow for the implementation of a mutually agreed and valid agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question? Please, my friend Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I have a few more questions, and I'd like to deliver them in writing. I don't know if you got them, so answer me. That would be the best. Just one short question. Did your ministry really allow the import of 5 million sardines 5 million sardines without customs from Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u122	Please, Minister Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u123	Of course, that information doesn't hold. The Ministry has called for the exact quantity which has been agreed for years under a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we are obliged to respect each other's free trade agreements. It would certainly be right to respect them fully, on the other hand, in other areas where they are not respected. Thus, nothing outside the free trade agreement has been distributed under any circumstances. However, what the free trade agreement requires has been divided. Everyone in this country, however, is always saying that free trade agreements are also for the benefit of the Slovenian economy, but of course they also have those parts that, for example, I do not want as a minister. This includes the specific area and the possibility of importing the said fish, but this is an agreement at the level of the country where, due to the interest of other parts of the economy, the Republic of Slovenia was obviously required years ago, when the free trade agreement was concluded, to accept these concessions, which for certain sectors, for example, for the fisheries sector, are not the most desirable. I would also stress, however, that, with regard to one of your previous issues, a concrete long-term fisheries development programme can be made only after November of this year, when the European Union will hold a major conference in Venice on a new fisheries policy in the Mediterranean, where we should also agree on different forms as they have been before. For this purpose, I was already in Rome a week ago, and I strongly protested with the Italian minister to whom I was supposed, and also the Croatian Minister responsible for fisheries, at the initiative of the Croatian President, discussed how Italy and Croatia should share international water and fisheries in it. Certainly this will not be possible any more after this discussion, Italy has clearly promised Slovenia that this will not happen and that a European conference or agreement will decide to do so, starting in Venice in November of this year, under the auspices of the European Union, where Slovenia, as a close member of the European Union, will play an indisputable role.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. My colleague Diaca will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Honourable ministers, ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I am writing to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Dimovska. Slovenia has made the most progress among all accessions in implementing European legislation on employment and social affairs, European Commissioner Ana Diamantopoulos said in Brussels, which has particularly welcomed the reduction of unemployment. However, if we look at the level of registered unemployment, we can only partially agree with it. Although the registered unemployment rate in Slovenia is 11.6 per cent, there are specific deviations from this rate across different regions of Slovenia. The largest are in the eastern part of Slovenia. For example, Upper Radgon 19.9 percent, Lendava 20.6 percent, Murska Sobota 18.5 percent, Maribor 18.7 percent, Ruše 20.7 percent, Trbovlje 19.2 percent, Radlje ob Drava 17.5 percent, Celje 15.9 percent, Šmarje pri Jelša 16.4, Šentjur 14.6. If we look at the structure of the unemployed, for example, for Šentjur, for which I have specific data, the proportion of women 55.9, the proportion of bankruptcy workers and persistent workers 23.3, the proportion of first-time job seekers 21.2, the proportion up to 26 years old is 27.7, the proportion of the unemployed with the first and second levels of education 47.1 and the proportion of the long-term unemployed 53.3. This data puts us ahead of the fact that we can talk about the so-called passive structural policy in Slovenia. Therefore, the first question: When and with what instruments will you start solving this situation so that we can also talk about active structural policy on the basis of specific numbers? And the second question, which is directly related to the topic that I previously opened. This is one of the forms of help in acquiring knowledge - scholarship. For some time now, a law is being drawn up that is supposed to fully regulate the area of scholarship. As you probably know, for some time now, through the amendments to the budget, I have been trying to introduce the item 'Stipendiary Funds of Local Communities', because I see the state budget or the country as a catalyst for the partnership of local communities and local economies to form these scholarship funds. The good aspects of such a scholarship are likely to be known, and I firmly believe that this type of scholarship would also be a contribution to active structural policy. Therefore, the second question: Will the law on scholarship also include this instrument of assistance in the process of acquiring knowledge? At the same time, I am taking the initiative to include this in the law and also to provide for funds for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you. Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Diation, for two very complex questions. I will try to give me some basic guidelines at the time at hand, as regards active employment policy and the law on scholarship or scholarship policy. What the Member correctly stated is a set of statistics indicating the level of unemployment in Slovenia. We have two data here, which we also mix many times in comparison with each other. On the one hand, it is a registered unemployment rate that measures all those registered at the employment institution and the second rate that we measure every quarter, and this is the so-called ALO rate, an international organisation of work that measures the willingness of an individual to work. Of course, the difference between these two and the ALO unemployment rate was 6.4% last year, which is almost 2% lower than the average unemployment rate in the European Union countries. Here this comparison may continue as far as the registered unemployment rates are concerned, but some countries do not have this data. The second, which is a matter of concern, is the question of the uneven distribution of the unemployment rate in Slovenia. Here you have listed municipalities in those district employment units that have a higher or upper average unemployment rate. On the other hand, we also have municipalities where the unemployment rate is 2, 4, 6, and so on, significantly below the Slovenian average. This is, of course, linked to the economic structure. Here the unemployment rate is higher mainly in municipalities or regional units of the employment institution of the north-eastern part of Slovenia. This is linked to the economic structure. The question in the economic structure is that these are places where they have a greater share, say, of the processing industry, especially the labour intensive, which have a certain life cycle and, of course, of the agricultural sector. As a rule, there is a unemployment rate in Slovenia. That is why at the Ministry of Labour - here I will only talk about the measures that we are responsible for at the Ministry, the remaining measures that speak of a comprehensive structural and development and regional policy - the whole of the government's instrument - have practically been implemented in most cases since 2001 in all active employment policy instruments within this policy in the northeastern part of Slovenia. If we look at the comparison in the growth rates of the funds per section, you will see that in these municipalities, the growth indices are greater than 100, while in the western part of Slovenia they are below 100. This means that we are implementing a policy to promote employment in these parts, in these regional units of the employment institution, in particular through instruments that give either immediate effects or effects that are gradually being seen. Here are instruments such as public works, local employment programmes, other active employment policy measures to mention, say, subsidisation of employment in social care and so on. Here is a whole range of these instruments supported by funds that are budgetaryly oriented. However, in the context of the programmes, in the so-called European programmes, we have also dedicated certain programmes to either "cross border programmes" or, for example, Phare 2001, especially to programmes of employment in the Savina region. In some ways, active employment policies cannot solve all restructuring problems and more aggressive economic policies, structural funds and so on are needed. This is a thing that goes beyond that question that you asked. The other is the structure of the unemployed. The European Commissioner's report, following Mrs Kenten's visit to Slovenia, shows that we are at two segments behind schedule: participation in employment of over 50 years of age and the share of unemployed young people. This is how we have been preparing specific programmes for the promotion of youth employment for 2004 because we would like to pursue the objectives of the so-called Lisbon Strategy within a certain period of time, either within the framework of the strategy or the national employment programme by 2006. As for the second question, the scholarship, I don't know if I can say all that in one sentence. The law is being prepared within the framework of the student council working group, and I hope that it will soon be under professional consideration. Otherwise, if there is an additional question, I am ready to answer this question, otherwise in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much. You're satisfied with the answer. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u129	Of course, I want to complete the answer. Unless it's the other way to get the minister those three or four minutes, as long as he has to answer another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u130	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much for this opportunity to answer another part of the question. This is a matter of scholarship policy or scholarship system. Here development has shown that the resources available for scholarships are almost the same as those available for active employment policy. In the budget two, three of these funds are about 20 billion, as much as the grant funds. The scholarships have a double function. One is called a human resources function, the other part is called a social function. I must say that, after 1990, there was a remarkable decline in staff scholarships, and here they were virtually fully compensated by the growth of scholarships, so-called state scholarships, so-called Zois scholarships for gifted and other scholarships. But it happened that this scholarship system developed, I could say, fragmentedly on individual segments. With a systemic approach, most likely with the law on scholarships, we want to connect these various elements of the scholarship system into a single scholarship system. Here we expect that, within the framework of this working group, a structure of this law will be developed for the student council, where representatives of different ministries, student organisations and other professional services are involved, which will then be coordinated at the professional level. The elements on which this scholarship system would be established are the following. First, it is necessary to define all types of scholarships that have become established, developed or will develop in the future. Secondly, it is a question of student loans, which need to be defined more precisely than defined student loans in the past, for a period where, probably also due to non-linkage with tax policy, they have not had certain effects. Thirdly, these are so-called scholarships or scholarships from foundations that have grown significantly over the last period, but there is no appropriate regulatory mechanism to deal with these scholarships in a uniform manner. Fourthly, it is about the formation of a scholarship fund, which is supposed to somehow connect the various actors of the scholarship policy in Slovenia. I believe that, within this, there is also an opportunity to implement the so-called local community fellowship funds, which you have repeatedly pointed out in your debates and in the debates on the state budget. In this way, I count that by capturing all the elements of the scholarship system, we could lead a more comprehensive scholarship policy in Slovenia in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by colleague Bogomir Zammernik to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In a democratic society like ours, an institution in charge of human resources education would expect people to be encouraged by their self-confidence, to think with their heads and thus to contribute to the progress of society. So I was surprised at the warnings I received from at least fifteen different addresses, different institutions, and this is the next problem. At this year's February graduation, candidates wrote one of the selection essays on the theme "One Year of Punt We Pushed". The instructions explained to the candidates that they should also be generally defined until resistance. Because I am very limited in time and because I have many things I would like to say, I will only read when candidates get the maximum number of points, it is said: "Two points are received by candidates who have properly explained their position in the file." As an example, however, the following view is given. He says, "Rebellion was not worth it in the old days, nor is it worth it today. They resist always those who are weak and oppressed, so they have no chance of success. In fact, rebels harm themselves, it's best to accept life as it is, it's better to have a little than nothing. This instruction, by which the student would get the maximum number of points, of course gave me a lot of themes to think that even after the end of Miro Friday should be quiet now, although it was almost for the attempted murder in the attack on him; that he should be a silent journalist from Celje, who now points out the irregularities that are happening in the cell police and elsewhere. In order to remain silent, finally, the president of the National Assembly Commission of Inquiry, because rebellion is not worth it. And it's not worth saying that sometimes the prosecution and the police are doing something wrong. Rebellion is not worth it. If that's what you are, you're unwelcome and you're doing the most harm to yourself. I don't think we're hurting ourselves by telling ourselves what's wrong to remind us of our problems. That is why, of course, I would expect the ministry to point out that people who come from our schools will think with their heads, even if ever with a bit of mutiny. Since my time is up, I thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you for asking me that question. I ask the Minister, Dr. Gabra, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, honourable Member. As Slovenia is a democratic country and because in Slovenian schools it is critical to make people think, it is more important to say that what you have read is taken from a much broader context. I've given you the entire evaluation manual myself. From them you will no doubt find that during the guidance given, there is a completely different criterion at work, such as those to which some in Slovenia wanted to point out, with the desire to demonstrate the need for rebellion to be equally valued in Slovenian schools, as well as other possible reflections on the way of life in society. While the Ministry is not competent to determine how to evaluate in our school. I also gave you the Commission's response, which is responsible for this and specifically pointed out that at the beginning of the modernized point, it stated that the cases are purely illustrative and that all the records corresponding to the above mentioned cases are considered to correspond to the content or to the taxonomic degree of difficulty. The interpretation of literary texts may be correct or incorrect or inappropriate, depending on the knowledge of literary science. But with personal opinions on the problem, that's not the case, the Commission says. There is no instrument in the interpretation of literary texts to measure personal opinion as correct or incorrect. We can only assess how someone expressed it, that is, the taxonomic rate. This is also the case with the described criteria in the moderated point. However, the illustrative example of the position adequately expressed shows that the position needs to be explained. If you read other cases, you will find that you get more points once if you support rebellion, if you support someone’s decision on their way, but always only because of how complex the problem has been. So if you don't make up your mind about it or against it. So you'll find that you get no points if you just write "resistance is sometimes necessary, but sometimes you don't". But of course you get more points if you write, "although all rebellions are not successful, they make the world less suffering". If I say another example from this one, for example, you get no points if you write, "The passengers get angry because they sing the Mother Rebellion Song." That means if the logic you've been trying to present here applies, you should get two points for that. And you don't get them. Because it's not the logic that was tried to be presented here, but it's simple. If you structure the answer, if you give enough arguments for rebellion or if you give arguments against resistance that are sufficiently structured, the teacher must assess your ability to argue, not whether you are in favour or against. That's the whole logic. You will be able to look at this and there you will also find that it says "if there were no rebellion, and if there were not also John Gradnik, Tino's life would not be so unhappy", but it says in the following "but we cannot condemn the rebels because they fought for their right" and so on. In short, the darkness is different. I think that we will continue to leave this kind of decision-making to the teachers and the relevant professional commissions, even if we feel that the wording could ever be more efficient.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You're not happy with the answer? Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. First of all, I have to make it very clear that I didn't put any weight on it. All I asked was a question, not a thesis. I ask you below whether you are willing to take responsibility for this area or to demand responsibility from your subordinates if we are able to demonstrate by example that they have also followed the instructions contained in this content. It is said that in some schools, points were done differently than you explained. Of course I'm happy with your explanation, if that's true. However, if a school has also taken into account the content of these instructions, in which case the case is marked with a maximum number of points or you are willing to take responsibility yourself, or perhaps those who have done so. And last but not least, that the rebellion has moved forward, at least in some cases, shows a lot of arguments. I'm going to abuse the rules of procedure because I have 30 seconds left. If we do not get the answers that we requested last week, including from the Prime Minister, through this rebellion by our Commission, I will show this rebellion in a specific way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you. Minister, you have 3 minutes to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u139	Look, I've been trying to tell you for as long as possible in this short time, when I know that you have the same problem as I have, how evaluation takes place. This particular record is even a record taken from a specific task. This is the moderation procedure. As the entry from one point before this is also taken from another task, and the third, which I read, from the third. Teachers in this country are specially trained to make it clear to them. First of all, it is their duty to assess the ability to better understand the content they are familiar with and learn from school. And then, when they express their position, either the position is that it favors rebellion, or it would be different, but it would be justified, the teacher should not reward or punish because of such or any other position alone. This is the approach that we take in our school. Where it is found that there are different behaviours, there is a warning of the inspection which is responsible for action - and we are not competent as the ministry in the strict sense of the word - then the inspection intervenes there. I take responsibility for that part of my responsibility. Of course not for someone who doesn't bother me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ambassador Franz Kangler will ask the Minister of the Interior. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! During the last month, the Slovenian public, the Slovenian policy mainly focused on foreign policy, on the work of the Foreign Minister, Mr Rupl. Many wanted the Minister to resign because of foreign policy, although my personal opinion is that he has done his job properly, professionally and ablely. In doing so, we have ignored one fact in Slovenian politics and also in Slovenian public that internal policy is limping. She's a handful of domestic politics. To raise 12 questions for one minister of 35 Members, 12 questions today are raised by one minister of 35 Members, one third of whom ask one minister, the Minister of the Interior. You'd think we were in some kind of emergency session, but we've got an emergency situation ahead of us. I could ask the minister a question about some of the recent affairs that have taken place recently, either economic crime or some other. My question, however, is addressed to the Minister of State in 2001, because of some of the government's decisions. My question is intended for the time when Minister Kopač, as a desert storm, destroyed the Drava Valley and led hydropower under cover in Ljubljana, because in Northeastern Slovenia there is not one so smart or capable that any such or other resort could lead. Dear Minister, I think I am asking the second or third time: What have you done so far, given that from October 2001 the Government decided that you and State Secretary Astrid Prašnikar were in charge of carrying out certain decisions? Let me read the conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of all ministries to prepare concrete proposals by 12 November 2001 for the transfer of the seats of individual state institutions outside Ljubljana." I ask you again: What will the government do about this decision? How far are these measures and which institutions are those for which there is a possibility, given that we want all regions to move out of Ljubljana in broad Slovenia: to Primorsko, Gorenjsko, Dolenjsko, Prekmurje, Štajersko or Koroška? This is a serious question and I would like you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you for asking. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much to the honourable Member for the question which concerns, so I understand, regionalisation, the introduction of the basis for the polycentric development of Slovenia for overcoming development differences, as well as the decentralisation of power in this country. The decisions of the Government, which the Member of Parliament is talking about or referring to, are primarily referred to, but at the same time, as was rightly stated, to the ministries to make proposals for the transfer of the seats of the state administration institutions to other parts of the country other than Ljubljana. According to these conclusions, the Ministry of the Interior has undertaken to continue the country's regionalisation project and has done a great deal of work in this context. Prior to the end of last year, a final regionalisation project, which is a set of four professional bases, together with the draft necessary legislation, was established. This project has been brought to the attention of all parliamentary groups. We have drawn up drafts of various kinds, those relating to the current regulation of Article 143, and those relating to possible changes have been prepared and discussed in various debates, including in discussions with the parliamentary groups. Thus, various parliamentary groups, coalition and opposition groups have been formed in this regard. It is known that the Constitutional Commission has a proposal from the Government to amend Article 143, which means a proposal to amend as regards the constitutional basis for the application of the provinces. One possibility is also Article 138 of the Constitution, which the vast majority of experts consider to be an appropriate constitutional basis. The regionalisation project, the project on the introduction of the provinces can be launched immediately if we are thinking of introducing the law on the provinces into the government and parliamentary procedure, if it is clear and if the Constitutional Commission and the National Assembly are united on the constitutional basis. In fact, we are waiting for this moment to happen that the regionalisation project, the regionalization project, is not threatened, professionally speaking, in either equation. A project on the introduction of landscapes can also be implemented under Article 143 of the Constitution. However, the explanation that we have given to the public on several occasions, which means that the provinces will not be established at the same time, at the same time, by uniform criteria, nor by the same powers. This means that the implementation of Article 143 may mean that part of Slovenia with the provinces will be covered and part of Slovenia will not - the part where the initiatives of the municipalities for integration into the provinces, as this article says. In our view, such an approach is less effective and less appropriate to achieve the objectives of decentralisation and also polycentric development. It is more appropriate on the basis of amended Article 143, which means, on the basis of a constitutional basis, which provides for the possibility of the immediate establishment of landscapes in all parts of Slovenia, as well as those with the same powers, the same financing methods, in short, of the same landscapes. This is the approach that we are taking in the ministry, this is the approach that the government is also committed to, so it has tabled constitutional changes and we expect the appropriate majority of the national assembly to be achieved in this regard. If this does not happen, the Ministry of the Interior within the current constitutional framework will continue its initiatives. It will have to partially modify the project, which was focused on the envisaged changes to the Constitution, but will continue with initiatives and support all those initiatives that will arise in various parts of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you. My colleague Franz Kangler gave me a sign that he wasn't satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u145	Not that I am not satisfied with the answer, I would ask an additional question because I did not ask the Minister about the establishment of the provinces and not the regions. My question was very specific and I focused in particular on the first decision, which says: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of all ministries to prepare concrete proposals by 12 November 2001 for the transfer of the seats of individual state institutions outside Ljubljana." This has nothing to do with the establishment of regions and landscapes, Your Honor. This has nothing to do with, it must be the will of ministers and ministries to make such a proposal - will! It is important that I remind you of this, Your Honor. This decision was adopted by the government following the devastation of Minister Kopač in the Drava Valley because of Hidroholding with its seat transferred to Ljubljana, so that in some way the angry people who were outraged at the Minister's statements, including some policies from different political options, would take this decision to an extent. So I specifically ask you: Does the government respect its conclusions, its own hands, or does it not respect? I am sorry, but I think that the first Secretary-General, Mirko Bandelj, has also been called to this government, who should be concerned about the Government's decisions being implemented and respected by 12 November 2001, should be prepared. The government has not prepared these proposals. He has no interest at all, he is misleading all of Slovenia and also us, the political public, and those who are actively involved in politics. So once again, does this government even think about decentralisation? Is it even possible in this country that any institution operating in Ljubljana will be established outside Ljubljana? Are we going to be on the next question, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] At the next meeting, they had 30 questions for one minister and the other two. [[...]] Will we, after all, have any other situation, normal as it is appropriate for our country? It's not normal for us to have 12 questions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u146	Please, if you're done [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u147	One minister. [[...]] Internal politics is limping, we don't respect our conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u148	Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u149	The distribution of the questions sent by the Minister of the Interior has no impact. With regard to the conclusions cited by the Member, I explained in that part of the conclusions which bind my ministry. This is the continuation of the project of introducing the provinces in Slovenia. However, I did not provide an answer to that part of the conclusions which bind all ministries, as the Member generally quoted. I have no power to oversee all ministries in respect of the performance of their duties. This is probably clear to the Member of Parliament as well. However, I am prepared to accept the obligation to ask the government about this and to call, ask my colleagues to give me information on what they have done in this regard, so that, possibly in a written question, they can provide information on what the rest of the ministries have done in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you. Comrade Aloys Sok will ask the Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Since there is much to be said about the six requirements of the Slovenian Coalition at this time, I would even say, in an ironic way, because both the government and the largest and most responsible party in the country are ironically expressing themselves to these requirements, says Liberal Democracy, I have focused my question on the question and the topic of media pluralisation. I've prepared to show you on the screen the state that rules this country. I have been monitoring the popularity of political parties in the Republic of Slovenia in 2001 and 2002. The average of 17 public surveys can be seen in this diagram. On average, 26.1% of voters, SDS 7.9%, the United List 6.1%, the Slovenian People's Party 4.2, the Slovenian National Party 2.9%, Nova Slovenija 2.8%, the Young Party 2.1% and DeSUS 2% would vote in two years before the local elections. So this is the average of 17 public studies published in the Evening magazine. Please give me the next picture. Thus, just before the elections, an analysis of public research was published, date 2.11.2002. After this public opinion survey, the LDS would still get 25.4%, because due to the lack of time I can't read all of them, I will only point out that there you can see that Nova Slovenija would get the total 2.7%, the Young Party 1.5 and DeSUS even less, 1.3%. And then what was the real situation at the November 10th elections? Here's this diagram right here. This is a percentage that shows the percentage of elected saints, and in fact the customers have received slightly less. LDS shows 26.07% choice of saints, gained 22%, Social Democratic Party 13.65%, United List 9.52%, Slovenian People's Party 13.47% of elected saints, real score was 9.5%, then you have the Slovenian National Party, Nova Slovenija, that is, 8.3% of all votes and then the Young Party, 4.43% of elected saints and DeSUS 5.08%. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] If you look at it, the actual correctness of the results shown through all the surveys was predicted by the real election result only to Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u152	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u153	If you'll allow me to ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u154	Just a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u155	It is more than obvious that this is a deliberate way of political deceiving, both by the respondents to the polls and by the responsible editors who publish such unrealistic surveys. I'm asking the Minister of Culture, perhaps because I think he's doing this rudely. What the Ministry of Culture thinks about such a way of publishing public opinion research, because of course this suggests favouritism [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u156	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u157	One and only customers? [[...]] Then I'll be shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u159	Dear Mr. President! Mr Member, thank you for the question. The issue of public opinion research is probably a very complex topic, an expert issue that many, many institutions are dealing with in our country, and certainly one of them is the best, and this is a public opinion research centre at the Faculty of Social Sciences. However, we are familiar with individual pilot research in this area of many individuals and, of course, here also individual research, measuring the current mood of the public vis-à-vis individual political parties. This is also done by individual specialised companies or media outlets. What research will be combined and, of course, when, it is a matter of every editorial policy of the individual media. At the very least, this would involve the Ministry of Culture or any other government or, ultimately, political structures. Moreover, every day, as far as I know and follow, the media publish a multitude of other different analyses and projections, which also today depend on editorial policy and, of course, on the professional judgement of individual regulators. I would like to point out once again that the Ministry of Culture cannot and does not have any right to be involved in the assessments of individual recent works of art or projects that are undoubtedly also part of the cultural domain, as well as in other content such as the issue to which it relates. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] , exchange rate, weather forecast or the like. [[...]] If there is doubt as to the professional or ethical level of any publication, there are professional associations everywhere and, of course, special commissions dealing with the ethical aspects of advertisements or so-called publications. If we were to adopt a special law in each of these areas, I do not think we would have gone very far. My personal opinion and my colleagues are such that publishing credible information and analyses is a matter of credibility for each individual media. The media, for which readers or audiences or viewers find that they cannot rely on the information they provide, certainly cannot hope for a longer-term perspective, or, finally, for the customers themselves. So I could say that for the best sanctioning of non-professional editorial policies, and thus also for the publication of all possible information and also for the publication of the media, we, their customers, whose intellectual level and common sense are by no means underestimated. As long as I stayed, of course, at this cultural level, as far as I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that in the government you are aware of the complexity and expertise of this work. However, I must say that the government's research commissioned for the spring political option is even worse than that published by other media. I know the government can't limit that. Of course, it can do something in the field of media pluralisation, which we have requested here and which is also one of the six requirements of the Slovenian Coalition. For such doing is the absolute favouring of one and the only political options that are not even good for this option, let alone for the country. However, I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, that, while you have said that the law does not limit this to your thinking that, like some other countries in transition, specifically neighbouring Hungary, you would consider a law that would slightly regulate this area, not least for a certain period of time before the elections themselves would ban the publication of public opinion research. But not as I presented to you that only eight days before the elections, public research was done and also published in all the media, which apparently favoured one another and put the other on the ground. In such a situation, of course, voters cannot make the right decision, for they are convinced that everything is already determined and cannot change anything. I'm asking if we would consider banning the publication of public surveys at least three months before the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you. You can complete your answer, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u163	Your Honor! Two years ago, we passed the Media Act and thus all the media regulations. I'm afraid I don't know the case you mentioned. I also mentioned the responsibilities, duties of editorial policy and the responsibilities resulting from this. We absolutely could not, for in this government we do not support the involvement of policy in any relationship between regulation or governance. I'm saying it again. The voter confidence is probably just one of the images of reflection and publication of such surveys. The correctness of these is the argument that voters will also make. That is why I do not think that such a proposal is anywhere in Europe, and we cannot follow that example in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you. My colleague Peter Levič has a question for the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At our previous meeting in the National Assembly, we adopted a decree establishing or reshaping two higher education institutions. So we got new colleges: the Faculty of Social Work and the Faculty of Administration. This year's invitation to postgraduate studies at the University of Ljubljana and Maribor of these independent higher education institutions was published on 15 January 2003, so students and students in the coming school year will not yet be able to enroll in new colleges in the first year of the university program. However, I received an initiative from the graduates and graduates of the higher education for social work to carry out a university education programme in the school year 2003/2004 at the Faculty of Social Work to date for graduate students and university graduates. According to the information provided to me, the management of the new faculty has already prepared the content of a programme that could be started in the coming school year. So I am now interested in whether you will allow up-to-date graduates of the High School for Social Work to obtain university education already in the school year 2003/2004, as an invitation to tender for them can be made, for example, along with an invitation to postgraduate studies, which will be published in mid-July. This could at least partially correct the injustice, we can say, to graduates and graduates of the higher education for social work, who are now ordered by the current study programme to receive 4 years of education for higher education and undergraduate. However, we know that only a three-year programme is envisaged to obtain such education under the Higher Education Act. Students and students of social work listened to promises to start a university program in the first half of the 1990s. In 1997 the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia also stated that it would last exceptionally until a related study programme for university education was implemented, a study programme for obtaining higher vocational education, social work for four years or eight semesters. I propose to Minister Gabru that it be possible for graduates and graduates of the higher education for social work already in the school year 2003/2004 to carry out a differential programme to obtain a university title, as the higher school for social work has been implementing a higher education programme, which has been the same since 1993, at the last meeting of the adopted university, both by content and by duration, and four years of graduate service. We must not forget, however, that the system prevents a large number of graduates and graduates from doing postgraduate studies, Masters and Doctors. This is now, except for rare exceptions, disabled. Thus, the science of social work will not have its own kind, but will be subordinated to the lecturers of other social programmes. Question: Will the Ministry, together with the head of the Faculty of Social Work for graduates and graduates, allow them to obtain the title of a university-graduate social worker in the coming school year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you. Minister, Dr. Gaber, you have a chance to give an answer. Microphone, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Discussions between the Ministry and the newly established university on this issue are already under way. Unfortunately, I must tell you that it appears that there is still some work to be done in the Senate of the Faculty itself. This means that a new university programme should also be adopted there, and only then will procedures for the call for such programmes be possible. It is therefore significantly more likely that enrolment in this university programme will be possible in the academic year 2004/2005 than in this study year. Study programmes also prescribe conditions for entry and conditions for promotion. This means, also, the conditions for continuing the study following the already acquired higher vocational education at the university level. Once all of this has been determined, this study may continue on certain differential examinations. For the time being, this seems to be sooner in 2004/2005 than in the academic year ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thanks for the answer. Moving on, colleague Sam Bevk has a question for the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Following hospital infections in Slovenia, between 400 and 600 people die each year, Dr. Andrej Trampuž said at the first seminar of the Slovenian Hospital Hygiene Society in March this year. Unfortunately, the results of the preliminary study of hospital infections are also devastating. The most dangerous MRSE infection, which has become resistant to virtually all antibiotics due to abuse, is that we are practically back in time before they are discovered. The survey showed that the prevalence of MRSE in the Slovenian hospitalised population is 61.8%, the highest percentage so far found in any European country. The assessment of the hygiene service at the clinical centre was about 20%. You also mentioned this in the first answer to my question two years ago. It was also the wrong assessment of Dr. Trumpuz, who first publicly pointed out this problem and assessed the prevalence of MRSE to 40% to 50%. As far as I know, a National Commission for the Management of Hospital Infections has already been set up to report and propose measures as an independent institution to the Ministry of Health to improve the situation in the fight against these infections. I ask Dr Dusan Kebra, Minister of Health: 1. When will the national commission record the actual state of hygiene and develop a national programme to combat hospital infections? 2. When will it prepare short, clear and uniformly valid hygiene instructions for all health institutions in Slovenia? 3. When is she going to make hospital posters to alert health workers to the most important anti-infection measure, that's hand-infection? 4. When will she produce information for patients and their properties in the form of a briefcase? That way, they'll be able to alert their staff if they don't disinfect their hands before the checkup. 5. When will it prepare a study to show what measures are most effective in preventing hospital infections in our situation? I thank you very much for your answer, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr Vice President! First, just a brief comment on the prevalence of 60%. This is 60% of all patients with hospital infections caused by infections. This percentage is also high, of course, usually in hospitals we expect a lower percentage, but I would not like it to fall out of your question, although your question was correctly raised that we have 60% of patients in hospitals infected with MRSO. Allow me to say that the processes that have taken place in recent years have led to the establishment of the Commissions for Hospital Infections in all hospitals and also the National Commissions for this area, that measures, after all, have led all formal and informal activities to the fact that today we believe that the awareness of health workers has increased significantly and that hospitals have taken a number of measures in this area. So we have preliminary estimates that the number of patients infected with MRSO and the consequences are decreasing. But it is true that the first analysis after the study, which is only quoted, will be done this year in May and June, this will be a questionnaire for all the hospitals that this national commission will already be conducting, which you are asking me about. So, specific answers. The National Commission has been established, it has drawn up its Rules of Procedure, it will start its work in May, its first work will be this questionnaire, the analysis will be in June. Then she'll review all the existing rules. This country, of course, already has instructions adopted by the Health Council - I think four years ago - and also guidelines as well as specific guidelines. Of course, this time of instructions at different hospitals are different, the national commission will coordinate them and, by autumn at the latest, provide a uniform form of guidelines and guidelines for all Slovenian hospitals. The same applies to the case. We prepare the package for the relatives and patients, according to the report of the President of the Commission, by autumn. Many posters already exist in writing, but we all agree that they are too little for both employees and patients. Thus, after this pattern, we will prepare a poster or some posters to serve that purpose. If I say so for a moment. The deadline for all those specific questions that you have asked, honourable Members, is the autumn of this year. Many of these activities are already under way and I also think that this instant situation in Slovenian hospitals is significantly better than, for example, two years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you still want to request further explanation on your question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I certainly didn't want to speculate about these percentages, as you had warned correctly that this percentage is very high, but I would like to say that this percentage in Scandinavian countries is below 1%, that in Switzerland it is 2%, in Germany 6%, in Mediterranean countries between 30% and 40%, but we have a real concern. Thus, it is estimated that some experts could limit these infections to Scandinavian levels only after more than 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Minister, do you still want to supplement? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Jožef Jerovšek has a question for the Minister of the Interior and for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I will ask the Minister of the Interior first. Dear Minister, I have asked you a question on the subject of the great prevalence of corruption and crime of "white collars" in Slovenia and on when the government will finally demonstrate its political will to fight economic crime and corruption. The answer was that Slovenia, according to the "Transparency International" index, stands very well that this is not a big problem. The justification of the warning has since proved to be in the new, many very serious affairs that have robbed Slovenian taxpayers. If I mention only the matter of Elan, 2,000 million, was mentioned today, it has been done so far; then the award to the management of the Maribor Vehicle Factory is a million 200 thousand German marks - besides the salary of the prize; then the SIB case is a few billion; and today's affair is a billion in a private account. It's about connected people. Mrs Žnidaršič Kranjc is the boss, actually leading the sale of SIB, and here are the connected persons themselves. In addition, there are billions of damage to property and so on. For several years, the government policy has essentially supported corruption and supported the connected people involved in the biggest affairs. And only after Trenja and Tarč broadcasts and under pressure from the public did you announce at the 7.3.2003 press conference that you would demand a police renewal to address the more difficult forms of economic crime. Members of the Supervisory Commission have been making these demands for years and the government has never responded. So now I ask: What concrete action did you make of my question last November? Do you already have someone in the Ljubljana Police Department with a college education who can handle it? It's literally a shame that you're not dealing with it, that you don't have the staff, and you've basically given this press conference a public invitation to these connected people to "stolen" to steal it because you haven't been able to prosecute them in five years. Then I also ask: Is it true that the replacement of the director of the Slovenian police is being prepared, precisely because an investigation into the SIB case was launched without political approval? There are still many questions, but this time I would really like you to answer with specific questions, not with some promises for the future. The situation in the area of economic crime is so critical that I do not think the Slovenian public has the patience to accept any response this time. Thank you very much. Can I ask you another question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u176	Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u177	I am asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs another question. If I speak somewhat ironically and metaphorically, it refers to the fight "for the kangaroo in the sandstone" between President Rup and Drnovsk, or if I translate it into political language, I ask: Why is our highest policy a scrupulous fight against the world public? This happened at the time of the signing of the Accession Treaty in Athens. Why does it not respect clear constitutional and legal obligations regarding the representation of the State? Why is the reputation of the state so debased? Why rivalry and bickering between the most visible politicians are repeated at another time, for Slovenia's historic event [[This was the first time in Prague when Slovenia was invited to NATO]] ? Why does the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs fail to produce a precise scenario for the representation of the State on the basis of legal provisions? I also ask: Will both presidents, Mr Drnovšek and Mr Rop apologize to their constituents and citizens of Slovenia for violating the reputation and dignity of the State of Slovenia? I also ask: Why did a number of Slovenian delegations travel to sign this accession treaty in Athens with three different aircraft? Does the financial situation of the State permit such waste? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. First, I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u179	Your Honor! With regard to the issue of economic crime, I am pleased to say that we have done a great deal since this issue was first raised in the National Assembly. It is only a testimony to the fact that not only in the Ministry of Home Affairs, but also in the Slovenian Government, there is a very, very strong political will to deal with this problem gradually, as opposed to the situation in the near past in the 1990s, when the fight against privatisation economic crime was apparently unsuccessful and it was from the criminal police that the professional trots went to other professions or other public services. But before I tell you what was done, I would answer the final part of your question when you say what is the connection between the SIB bank and the departure of the Director General of Police. There's no connection at all. There is no political approval whatsoever, nor in any other case is it necessary for investigations to be carried out. Investigations shall be carried out in accordance with the law on criminal proceedings within the framework of autonomous powers conferred on police officers by criminals and shall cooperate with the prosecution providing guidance. I am sure you are well aware that the Minister of the Interior does not provide direct guidance in any particular case, and therefore, according to his belief, but not generally, there is no legal basis. In this respect, we will also change and have already submitted to Parliament an amendment to the Police Act, where it will be explicitly stated that the Minister of the Interior has no right to give any instructions from the moment the competent state prosecutor takes over the criminal procedure. In short, there is no link between any findings in any criminal proceedings and personnel movements. There's no connection. As for what we've done, let me put it this way. Firstly, it is important to note that the number of crimes dealt with in the field of economic crime increased by 18% in 2002 compared to 2001, which means that the extent of economic crime research has risen far in the light of other forms of crime, the overall increase in the crimes dealt with is between 3% and 4%, in economic crime, as I say, by 18%. As I announced then in response to your question last year, we have carried out a consultation of all the factors, all the institutions responsible for the prosecution of economic crime in the country, from the prosecution to the anti-money laundering offices, to the fight against corruption, customs and tax administrations and so on. The aim of this consultation was to bring together forces in this area to realize that the police are not the only ones in this country who can win a successful battle against economic crime. It is necessary to link all those factors that bear responsibility in this area, and this advice, which is very useful, has brought together forces in this knowledge, while contributing a very important document which has been published in the Chamber, which I have also personally handed over to you recently, is the Economic Crime Chamber, whose summary is the starting point for a new strategy to fight economic crime that is needed during this period. Why is a new strategy needed? For two reasons. For the first time, because the previous one was not very much involved, because there was a lot left behind - the previous one from 1997 - and secondly, because we are fighting in this period, we call it postprivatisational, during the period of full operation of the private economy and the capital market, we are facing new emerging, modern forms of economic crime, which require much more specific knowledge, specialized knowledge and a much more organised and unified performance of all factors. This is precisely why - and this is what we have done - we have already set up in the government a coordination group to fight economic crime, which has already met at its first meeting last week with, let me say and conclude, a 100% participation that points to responsibility and the conviction of all factors that there is a need to connect forces in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you. Would you finish this question? You're not happy with the answer? I would suggest that the Minister for Foreign Affairs give an answer and then, if necessary. Please, Dimitri Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u181	Dear colleague Jerovšek, respected congregation! My colleague Jerovšek's question was actually understood as a rhetorical question. In fact, as a question of why Slovenians do not know how to enjoy their achievements, and why, here and there, especially in our home, we prefer to argue about details or some minor event, rather than to see the whole and the things that are essential. It is essential that Slovenia entered the European Union last week, so to speak, at a large door. I must tell you, Commissioner, that no one in Athens has noticed any complications regarding, so to speak, differences or tensions in the delegation or between the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. I want to assure you that everything was actually fine. It is true, however, that the government twice at the time of its discussion, namely the delegation to Athens, decided twice differently. In the first version of October of last year, she appointed a delegation composed of the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, the Minister for European Affairs, and on 3 April she appointed a new delegation led by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, which included all those who were already in the first delegation. As you know, there was a couple signing first: the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, then I signed the contract myself. Most other countries also had three signatories, while Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Latvia had four signatories. On 10 April, the government confirmed the delegation in which Drnovšek was listed as Head of Delegation - all the acceding countries had also had the President of the State in the delegation, and I would also like to say - in accordance with the agreement between the Office of the President of the Republic and the Office of the Prime Minister, Drnovšek spoke for Slovenia. Some other countries, such as Estonia, Poland, Cyprus, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Lithuania, have also spoken for the president of the country. Our performance was in a way similar to the performances of other countries. Let me tell you again that I think it is crucial in connection with this event, that we look forward to it and that it impresses on our memory as one of the major milestones in Slovenia's positive development. As far as the planes are concerned, I'd be more difficult to answer than anyone else. It is true that ties with Athens are somewhat complicated, so that that part of the delegation that came with the ordinary aircraft traveled all night long, it seems to me, and all day long, while by some written or unwritten rules, the President of the State and the Prime Minister did not fly - as a rule, should not fly - on the same plane. Why - you can probably explain yourself: because in the event of an accident that no one wants, of course, would be a very, very tragic and difficult question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u183	I need to ask both ministers additional questions because I am not satisfied with the answers. I'll go out the back first. Mr Rupl, who has transformed this into a rhetorical question, can see the literary experience that he has turned this very literaryly; but it is not true that no one has noticed any tension in Athens. Since you are here in fact, this is a serious criticism of our capable rapporteurs from there, foreign policy which [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] political ones who, of course, have clearly observed these tensions, and even from the cabinets, have indicated that these tensions have occurred. [[...]] They were also presented in the media that, this time both presidents, they were captured and shown. Thus, it is pointless to deny to the Slovenian public, and I hope that the Slovenian authorities and the Slovenian government will at least learn from the public's reactions and will not do so in the future. Minister Bohinc: I can agree or request or expect specific answers. The only concrete thing is that, within eight months of my first question, a coordination group has met. That's the only concrete answer. Of course, I cannot agree that much has been done in recent years, unlike in the 1990s. The exact same practice continues: the government does not pursue economic crime and corruption. That's a fact. And this is the former director of the criminal police, who has therefore resigned, Mr Mohorko - the government has not responded at all to their demands. Minimumly what I expected, Mr Minister, I expected you to state at least that you would, for example, suggest in cases that the government should appoint not just its politicians or its people to the supervisory councils of public and state enterprises. Whether people or other parties propose supervisory councils, this is the best fight against corruption and economic crime. See the SIB bank - who was there in the control world? Who's actually saving now - the connected people themselves! Speaking of Mr. Rekar, Mrs. Kranjc Žnidaršič, who today raised such a billion or how much - credit without insurance and so on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u184	The government has thus resolved that the related persons are handling the matter. Yeah, but that's not working! And in concrete terms, excuse me, Minister, concrete actions or concrete results, you have not had the opportunity to state. Turn around in a vicious circle. I can continue to say that you are actually telling all these connected people, "It's time to steal anything else you can steal." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you, colleague Jerovšek. Mr. Minister, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u186	It would not be this opinion to say that the situation is interesting for economic criminals, but quite the opposite. I think that the creation of an interdepartmental government group and a set of activities already put forward by the Ministry of the Interior in this area is a very clear message of a serious fight against economic crime, and I agree with you that this is a significant phenomenon and requires responsible action. I could list very many concrete measures - such as: change in systemisation in this area, organisational changes, creation of an education and training programme committee, arrangements with educational institutions and co-forming educational programmes with them. And even a number of other issues that do not belong in a public session. However, believe me, the measures have already taken place at a concrete and operational level. And together with the operation of the Interdepartmental Group and the operation, which is set at 18% of the increase in the ratio to the previous year; this is probably a message to those who are moving on the line of legality.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you. Dr Jožef Bernik also has a question on the table for the Minister of the Interior. You have the floor, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, Minister of State, colleagues and colleagues. I congratulate the Minister of the Interior on being an honorary guest in this congregation today and with the greatest attention. I've given you a very small question, very simple. At the last meeting, I asked how citizens should have access to the State Security Archives. You told me, for the first time, that everything was dedicated to the State Archives, and for the second time, that you weren't competent. Based on the fact that the Internet has given us little information, I see that your information was not entirely accurate. We learned that there was a central active record or whatever it was called and that there was a record here held by the Republic Secretary of the Interior of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia and Yugoslavia, etc., that there were over a million people there. I'm too slow to find this, it's already gone off the screen, but now I'm interested in it. How can we answer citizens when they ask us how to get access quickly free of charge, easy access to this data - what should we tell them? Okay, you can tell me that you're not responsible for this. Now I would ask, "Who is responsible?" If you're going to tell me that this is a security service or a secret service, then it's clear that we can't get someone to Parliament to explain it to us. Secondly, I wonder: When will the government come to what conclusion, because of course this is a "little hot potato" and I think we would also be interested in what the government is thinking about this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u190	To your question, Mr Bernik, I could only answer that my answer was correct and correct at the meeting on 24 March, that is to say, a month ago, that this answer would be different after 17 April - I agree with you. On April 17th, registers or indexes were placed on the famous website. In short, there were no lists at the time. My answer that all this material of the legal ancestors of today's Soviet Union, including the administration of the State Security Service, was transferred to the Slovenian archives, this answer was quite correct. Of course, what has not been transferred before, as we see today, has been removed from these records or documentation collections. As things look today, as we have reported in the first report after the first events of the police, it is obvious that these records, which also concerned - one part of them - the State Security Service, but not only on them, but also on public security, on criminal matters, on the Register of Populations; in short, that these records have been estranged. On when they were estranged, who estranged them, what crime may have been committed in the course of the prosecution's investigation. The police, the prosecutions are meeting in this regard, and I expect that they will come up with insights that can reach the public as well. How will the government act? Together, I suppose, with other responsible institutions in this area, we will prepare short information for the government and assess how it is necessary to act in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you. A person who has been persecuted or has been controlled in any way may obtain such information. Do they think that we will ever reach this stage and in what way? And you didn't exactly answer that question exactly: What should a person say to a citizen when he comes and asks you about this thing? What? If you cannot answer, perhaps the Secretary-General of the Government will be able to say so. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you. Once again, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u194	I'm not the right address for this. As you know, he is the legal successor or successor of all intelligence services, including the State Security Service, today’s Owl, and this would probably be the right address for such questions. The fact is, and I have already said this for the last time, and today I repeat that in 1997 or 1999, a decision was taken by the Government to transfer all these records to the archives of the Republic of Slovenia and the Archive Act regulates the process of obtaining information, in my opinion also such information from the archive. That's all I can say from my behavior about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you. He now has the floor of his colleague Anton Butolen, who will ask questions to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Regional Development. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! On 1 April this year, Slovenian and Croatian police began to implement the regime at our southern border in accordance with the so-called SOPS. Although the deadline for the implementation of the provisions of this Agreement has been postponed and started later, as originally planned, there are many problems and uncertainties in implementation on the ground. We all know that the agreement was intended to facilitate the situation along the southern border. The problems arise mainly in the relations between the border police and the inhabitants of the border areas, partly because of the way the police work, as well as because of the failure to inform the inhabitants in the border areas. However, according to some information, the problems are also due to unregulated economic infrastructure along the southern border. With regard to this issue, I would like to ask Minister Rada Bohinca: What were the preparations of the state administration and the border police for the implementation of SOPS? Have police officers in the border unit received special training according to the specificity of their work? What is the experience so far, general experience with the implementation of SOPS? In particular, I would point out the status of the border crossing of Zgornji Leskovec, which has been an interstate border crossing since 1994 and will become a border crossing point with SOPS. I would ask: Does the government consider changing the status of that border crossing in accordance with Article 17 of the State Border Control Act? Madam Minister for Regional Development, Mags. Zdenko Kovač would ask: In view of the well-known fact that the places along our border with Croatia are among the less developed in the country, how are preparations for the control of the Schengen border taking place in the light of the strengthening of economic power and development at the future external borders of the European Union? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you. First, I give my word to the Minister of the Interior. Dr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you very much for this question, although only one part of this question concerns the competences of the Ministry of the Interior and I will answer this part, i.e. the part concerning the police and its role and responsibility under SOPS. You're asking what the police's preparations were like in this regard. Let me say that very extensive training has been carried out, namely for 320 police exchange leaders, for all border inspectors organised by the police department of the uniformed police, the state border sector, and border inspectors have organised consultations, training, information, with all police officers carrying out border controls. So as far as information, skills and knowledge of the SOPS regime are concerned, there should be no problem. According to our information, since you are asking for experience in introducing SOPS, there are not many in this regard either. However, there are problems that arise - and this is also contained in your question - from delays in infrastructure equipment or delays as regards the construction of border crossings, as well as because border crossings are put into use before all the conditions for their operation are met, so that the police do not have enough time to adjust. So far - if I may serve with some more data - 11,000 border passes have been issued, which is very small and shows in fact the low demand and also the modest interest of citizens and citizens, which is, we estimate, mainly related to the problem I mentioned earlier, to delays in opening border crossings. These delays and the modest time available for us to adapt to the opening of new border crossings have also been pointed out by the services of the joint government services, specifically by the police by letter of 10.4.2003. In addition to the opening of the border crossings, - with the delays I mentioned - there were also 63 so-called crossing points or transitional points for the two-owners and 1,700 agricultural inputs. A total of 21 border crossings remain to be opened within the short time available. I therefore consider this to be one of the important activities of the country. The government has also recently accepted financial support for investments to build border crossings. There are also questions about opening time at certain locations, or as you mentioned the question of the border crossing of Leskovec, where the question, as far as I know, concerning the recategorisation is raised. With regard to the Ministry of Interior or the police, we have no fundamental reservations to support such a proposal, nor do we have any other proposal for a possible extension of opening time. The problem we see and which is real is the provision of funds for additional employment of police officers or, for additional operating hours. If such funds were to be secured, this means strengthening the budget lines in this regard, then there would be no reservations in principle, or in terms of the competence and organisation of the police. However, when the procedure of this type, which runs through the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is initiated, Leskovec will also be able to escape from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you. More mag. Zdenka Kovac, Minister for Regional Development. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, honourable Members! Dear Member, thank you for this additional question and for the opportunity to explain what our service is actually doing in the function of preparing or facilitating economic and social life at the border. We are aware that, for many centuries, this is the first time that a real border will be cut into this area and, of course, we are also reminded of different reflections from the areas themselves - the white landscapes to Pomurje and, of course, other areas along the border. In the context of the resources available and the instruments available to our service or somehow taken over by the Ministry of Economy, which has guided this policy of coherent regional development and thus also assistance to regions and communities at the border, we will, of course, continue with all the activities already started in the past year. We need to be aware, and here I want to clarify that these areas are largely all, except the coastal area, of region A and B, and that for these areas within these specific direct regional development incentives, which can then be financed through the implementation projects of the regional development programmes, there is a first option, of course, how we will strengthen and strengthen this economic power or, I will say, social development in these regions. I would also like to clarify that our entry into the European Union, while we are aware of all the constraints that this border will impose, but it can also mean certain development opportunities. One such development opportunity is, for example, the construction of an economic terminal on the Coast, which, of course, will be at least for this particular region - Posavje - can also mean economic progress and the possibility of opening new jobs. The Structural Funds as well as the Interreg programme, which we also establish for cross-border cooperation with Croatia, will be a parallel programme to the so-called CARDS programme implemented by Croatia, opens up new opportunities for economic cooperation and project preparation. For this purpose, in 2004, in the 2004 period, approximately 2.6 billion tolars of total European and, of course, domestic resources will be allocated. And a joint programming document is currently under preparation to identify development priorities and areas of investment under this programme. The area of the trilateral Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia is intended. I would like to stress one more point. In the framework of our cooperation in SOPS, i.e. in this special agreement, we are preparing so-called tourist zones where free passage with special permits will be possible. Of course, these tourist zones must be established and marked before our final entry into the European Union, so that a number of projects are already emerging this year, which will then enable investment in the zone itself, i.e. designations and all the infrastructure required there. As you are probably aware, this project is being carried out in cooperation with local communities and tourism development operators in a given area. It is also of course very important that, in general, in the framework of a European programming document or a single programming document that is ready to draw on the European Structural Funds, there is a great deal of emphasis on those projects that will actually strengthen the economic strength of the region. Here I am talking mainly about business infrastructure, such as industrial zones, investment, investment in tourism and so on. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] The Regional Development Fund will also re-allocate 600 million tolars of specific aid in the form of a combination of reimbursements and grants to areas along the border this year. [[...]] Thus, these instruments are large and I hope, of course, that, together with these areas, we will also draw up appropriate projects that will benefit from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Do you want to make an additional request? Please. Madam Secretary, microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you very much. It is difficult to agree with this assessment. We've read completely different scores in the media. But I've been attending quite a few choirs of citizens myself lately. And I'm going to take a quick look at what people are actually asking, or how some people think about these things. I'll try almost literally to sum up some points of view. One such point of view is that the police control our citizens more than the border. People are wondering if the police - you have already responded to this - are qualified enough, given that we no longer have a police training school, that is, people are admitted to the police, who may otherwise be experts in their field - electricians, machine technicians, criminals, etc. - they do not have enough experience to work with people, but work along the border is certainly specific. We wonder if the password that was once present is still valid, but I think it is still effective that people living along the border are best protected. And if that is true, then there should certainly be genuine contact between the police and the citizens, otherwise this protection will not be successful. The second concerns flights to the competence of the authorities issuing small-border passes, agricultural cartridges and other such documentation. Often they do not know how to answer all the questions that are actually complicated and for which, as you said, Mr Minister, in fact, there was very little time to assert. The third concrete comment is the awareness of the population about the consequences of the SOPS implementation. Who, in fact, is responsible for bad information? People ask, do all citizens really have to read the Official Journal, or is someone in charge of informing citizens in time? That's why, as you mentioned, there were so few of these passes. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I have two more questions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u203	Shorten as much as you can. Please. Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much. It's about that. There's one more thing I'd like to say. It's a question of free short-range pass. It may seem strange to some, but people do not need passes to cross the border, but some simply do not stand up to their homes and parallels with their identity card and passport. You got that man to go to another country. In some cases, it is not a desire to cross the state border, but the infrastructure is built so that people walk several times on the borderline and have to have a small border pass and it would be fair to get it for free. As far as the economic power of the border area is concerned, I would only say so. We are going to the European Community, we are going to become the external borders of the European Community, the 25 most developed countries in the world, this has been said several times in the last few days. In certain areas, when they cross the Croatian-Slovenian border, it will be possible, but in certain areas it will be the other way around. For Croats are extremely investing in border areas and when they cross the state border of the most developed European countries, people will be terribly disappointed - but of course those who live there are even more disappointed. Since I'm running out of time, all I'd say is the Upper Leskovec Passage. In July last year alone, there were 24 thousand 267 passengers at the border crossing, etc. This information is full, the Videm Congregation has provided data, so I would not read it and ask it to be taken into account. Probably, given that the government is amending this regulation, as you said, Mr Minister, if you study the data well, there should be no problems, but maybe when that decision was taken at the time of different data, it is now. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you. Dr. Bohinc, would you like to complete your response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u206	To what honourable Member Butolen referred to as the opinion of citizens and citizens, in fact, I can only say that we will reexamine whether the level of competence of police officers, as I now believe and as I have assured the police, is indeed such that there is no complication for this reason. I was not particularly concerned - because this was not put into question - with competence at the level of administrative units, who also have contact with people in the issue of licences and so on. And I allow the possibility that there will be some short contact here, and I will take this question of yours as an initiative for activities that will contribute to better information for people living along the border. Clearly, there is something else that needs to be done to overcome the problems that arise. As for the idea of a free pass, consideration is valuable, your arguments seem meaningful to me and we will examine them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you. Even Madam Minister, would you like to complete your response? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Janez Cimperman to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Respectable members of the government, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am asking the Minister for Environment and Space. Protecting water resources is one of the more important tasks of the country and of all of us living in this country. The Water Act has been passed, many words spoken and written, and water resources remain, at least for those I know, threatened or continue to pollute. One such water resource is the watersport of Brest in the municipality of Ig, which supplies about 100,000 people, is also a good part of our capital city Ljubljana. Citizens in this area are under strict water protection, and unfortunately this does not apply to the newly-increasing wild Roma settlement in the immediate vicinity of the waterworks. Citizens are upset and bitter, and the local community is powerless to remove Roma from this sensitive area. I turned to the police, and their response was that they did not have the authority to act. I ask you, Minister: Will you, as the most responsible in this country, prevent wild settlement in this sensitive area? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Minister Janez Digač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. As far as black construction is concerned, of course, the Ministry of Action. And I must say, in recent times, it has been very effective. The inspection is very prompt to issue a decision on the removal of illegally built buildings and if the owners do not remove them themselves - I understand that in such a case this would be the case - then we will do so at the expense of the state budget. Otherwise, the issue of protection of water resources is broader. As I have already responded to Mrs Pozsonchev, we are now preparing for the cadastral exact designation, on the plot precisely, of all water protection areas. As I said to Mrs Pozsonchev at the time, there are 880 such areas that have been adopted by municipal decrees since 1997, and there are about 1,300 or 1,500 of them from before 1997, so we must now record them all. In addition, we have a government regulation on the designation of vulnerable groundwater areas [[Barja is not located in these areas or the specific area of the municipality of Ig]] and there we exercise control over the use of prohibited active substances in plant protection products. For this particular case you're referring to here, I didn't know, I'm going to alert our inspection service. However, some retention in that area is not prohibited, certain activities that would potentially endanger the cleanliness of the water are, of course, prohibited, and in the event that such a situation occurs there, the inspection will, of course, take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you. The next question will be asked by colleague Majda Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the coalition of Slovenia, we are working, inter alia, to achieve the greatest possible democratisation of our society. We are not satisfied with the situation as it is, so also with the well-known six requirements that we have addressed to the government. In one of the points, the requirement to ensure minimum supervision and rational use of public sector taxpayers' money is also proposed to appoint at least one third of the members on a proposal from opposition parliamentary parties to the supervisory boards of public undertakings or state-owned enterprises, formed by the Government, the National Assembly or the Ministry. In this regard, I ask you a brief question, Madam Minister of the Economy: How many supervisory boards of companies with a share of the state have the Slovenian Development Society appointed its representatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you for asking. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Your Honor! Today we have also received a notification of this issue to our ministry, but I must say that the Ministry of Economy does not have this information; these are the data available to the Slovenian Development Society. For this reason, your government will forward your question to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Development Society and then forward your response to the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you. I'm a little disappointed, I have to say, over the answer. All right, then I'll get an answer from the Slovenian Development Society. However, if you allow, would you ask an additional question: By what criteria and procedures do you choose these representatives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you. Can you answer that yet? Don't you? Thank you very much. It'll be in writing. My friend Franci Rokavec has a question for the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Members and Members of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. A good week ago, we were informed, the public, of the findings of the Court of Auditors in the operation of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, on the basis of these findings, I ask the Ministry of Finance - something has already been said about this speech today: What will be the actual concrete measures in both the human resources, organisational and other systemic areas governing tax operations or the functioning of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia? In view of the fact that the Court of Auditors has found that the documents and operations of the tax administration are inoperable and incomplete, this news is actually shocking for taxpayers. Indeed, many tax advisors have said in fact in these days that companies should provide the tax administration with an exemption from their obligations and compare them with their data. Of course, not all do so now, often only when they need certificates of taxes and contributions paid. The main problem is that an institution such as the tax administration should have strict up-to-date and transparent documentation and business. This raises the question: What is the actual debt obligation of DURS to taxpayers? On the contrary, what measures will be taken by the Ministry to make the recovery of the tax administration more effective? In particular, when we know that this is effective for smaller creditors or for smaller creditors of the country, it is not effective for much larger creditors of the country. In this context, the Ministry of Finance would ask, according to the last article in the Finance Journal, on Friday 18 April, under the title: Elan out of a billion profits, 400 million tolars of the prize. This article clearly states: "The management, which, if not extended, expires in March next year, has already proposed to the owners to cancel the premium, while the foundation already set up by the managers of the administration would be co-owner of Elena." Probably in that amount. And last but not least, we know that the state indirectly, through the KAD, has a 30% share in Elan. I therefore ask because in this particular case, the State has twice the possibility to act as a co-owner, as well as in this particular case: Will it be able to collect a profit tax in this particular case? We know all the options in this business, some economic services have already been used. I'm asking for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you for asking. Regarding the tax administration and its effectiveness, I must say that I have personally done two different studies because I would like to have a comprehensive picture of efficiency, not only at the Slovenian level, but also comparatively, internationally. Then essentially within the Slovenian structure, what is this structure, where are these problems, if problems are and then on this basis make a decision. Despite the fact that these two analyses are now being carried out, I would like to say that, in the context of this comprehensive reform of the tax system, we are already incorporating certain elements that we know will improve the system. For example, in the area of tax debt, in order to improve this business, the Ministry is looking at the best possible solutions in the preparation of the new tax procedure law in relation to the enforcement procedures, and there are also new solutions to the write-off and indemnity of the tax debt, as you know that it is one of the major problems. We also believe that it is necessary to provide a single bookkeeping record within the tax service for all taxpayers and for all types of tax, a tax debt that, at a given date, will show uniformly, among other things, the state of the tax debt divided into principals and interest on late interest, the structure of the tax debt, given the year in which the unpaid tax liability is created and, in short, the record which is relatively difficult to obtain in the current system immediately. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance expects that the tax administration, in its 60-day response report, will accelerate the continuation of the ongoing reorganization of the functions of tax exposures, which we have already discussed here in the questions referred to in the Member States, and the tax offices, by setting a date for the completion of the restructuring, the development of electronic taxation and the resolution of the issue of the unification of bookkeeping systems for all debtors and for all taxes, as I mentioned earlier. In this respect, you know that this e-tax call has been successful. The Ministry of Finance, within the framework of the work programme I have already discussed, has already drawn up new legislation on tax procedure and tax service. The proposed solutions, which have proved successful in tax collection procedures, will also introduce the arrangements needed for Slovenia's integration into the European Union due to mutual assistance between the tax authorities of the Member States where additional problems of tax debt could arise due to a relatively poor information system between Member States and could further increase tax debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you for the partial answer, although I think it's very incomplete. Mr Minister, in fact, I would like to receive an answer to the question of how long will the analysis of the operation of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia be prepared and what measures will then follow, following what time dynamics, both organisationally and systematically. It is also a question of, we know what is the unrecoverable tax debt, but citizens do not know how much DURS’s debt obligations to taxpayers are. This response has not been received by citizens or, for the time being, is unknown. In the case of Elan, I would ask, if it is not possible today, for a concrete written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, once again, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you very much. When will the analysis be done? The first analysis, which is comparative, with other countries, will be done in less than ten days. That was the deal. The second analysis, which is more comprehensive, is within the framework of CRPOV's research projects. VUŠ; this is for now, but it's turning into a college. This one will be in six months. However, legislation should be completed, all nine laws, after what the government plans, by the end of the year. And we'll give you an answer in writing about Elan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Slavko Gabru, will ask the question of mag. Janez Petty Officer. You have the floor, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u226	Honorable Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! I refer the question to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Gabra. The primary compulsory school in Slovenia is free of charge, we know that. Since parents have to pay for textbooks, school supplies, books, and even a number of school bills, it is far from free. In addition, costs such as parental contributions, say, 2,500 tolars, I chose something, school supplies 1,500 SIT, school in nature, third meal 6,000 tolars, diet 14,490 tolars. In addition to that school, it also includes students in different forms of activity or visits to schools or theatres, then cinemas and the like. This all represents an essential, important cost for the family budget. This may also be the reason why parents do not choose to have more children in their families. Thus we also have a picture from the census, which was taken two years ago or last year, that the generation of up to 20 years in Slovenia decreased by more than 100,000 people. I'm sure your parents don't take that as a success story. Perhaps this is understood by Mr. Korga, who avoids paying taxes. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to visit one of the exotic countries. There is compulsory education for 12 years, all free of charge, transportation, school supplies and also personal school clothes for schoolchildren. In this exotic country, life is felt because most of the young people are full of young people; we are becoming an "old" society. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, how are you going to introduce a really free school so that all these costs I have mentioned will become an integral part of the cost of school, not the cost of the family budget, because this affects the inequality of opportunities and also the additional poverty of the lowest layer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! More or less generally, it is known that in the core of the concept of free school in the world, as well as in the declarations, they understand in particular that there are no school fees in the school. This is even more true in the vertical direction. Below, at the beginning, in primary school, we have been working for a long time in Slovenia to ensure that school, while at the school level, is free school, is as cheap as possible not to impose on children and parents what belongs to the basic curriculum as something that requires additional payment. But we also know from the experience of the various governments in the last decade that in doing so, Slovenia - in order to fully eliminate the costs associated with education - is far from being able to achieve this. What can and can be achieved - even at the level of statistics - is to reduce the burden on food, reduce the burden on schools in nature, reduce the burden on textbooks, first of all for those who are most socially needed. About 23% of children in the country currently received subsidies at the primary school meal, i.e. during lunch. About 45,000, 46,000 young people attend schools in nature in Slovenia at school and school centres under significantly more favourable conditions and more than 70% of all use textbooks from textbook funds, for which it is necessary to pay about a third or less of the price they would otherwise pay if these textbooks were to be purchased. We can do this right now. My personal conviction is that the first step this country should have taken if additional resources were to be found would be a warm meal for those who need it most. While we give free textbooks for the most needed today, everyone can get them in a unitary way, then probably textbooks, then a school in nature, etc. So much public finances can do. For the time being, the fundamental shifts in this direction, in the direction of eliminating any parental funding, are not promising.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you. Comrade Petty Officer wants another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you very much for that answer. However, I would have intervened in your response. I myself have experience from a school in nature that students do not participate for social reasons because they cannot pay for it. The experience is that about 40% in some class did not attend a school in nature because they organized this school in nature due to the needs and interests of school staff in Kranjska Gora, where prices are highest. This certainly isn't the right way to discriminate, and then half the kids stayed in class, half went to school in nature. The price of textbooks is very high compared to other countries. It is true that this subsidy, as you say, is for those at the bottom of the socio-economic scale, but it is necessary to say and ask you in this regard: What is it like to publish textbooks to appear so often and not actually improve and the price is very high, which leads parents to think that prices and all these textbooks are geared towards the needs of publishers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Minister, if you'd like another answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. I can point out that at the Ministry we are preparing an additional nature school regulation programme to increase the offer to schools, children and parents in this area and, on the other hand, to limit the higher prices, which, according to our estimates, are of course beyond the centres of school and school activities at a dizzying level. What will be the exact system we will probably inform you about in the coming months, I suppose in the relevant committee of the National Assembly. As regards textbooks and introduced as a system in the country, the above mentioned teaching funds, which have introduced a lot of order over the past decade and also increased social justice in this area, are part of the regulation of this segment. Otherwise, it is in the country that most of the prices of textbooks are released so that the state does not interfere with them administratively. This applies to the area where there are several competing textbooks. We have already agreed to extend the duration of textbooks and to try to lower prices in a particular textbook. For the second segment of textbooks with lower loads, with low loads, the country intervenes in pricing. And she'll be back in that area on Thursday. This is the arrangement we know right now. Of course, spiders aren't cheap. But it is true that even if they are cheaper, and today they are relatively cheaper than they were five years ago, they will still be too expensive. But the quality, I must say, is rising according to our estimates.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you very much, both of you. My colleague, Jože Tanko, has two questions. First to the Secretary-General of the Government and second to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, and I welcome everything. My first question is to Mr. Mirk Bandle, the Secretary-General, and the second, as you have already said, to Master Franz Booth. The government has already tried several times to resolve the story of a government multi-purpose aircraft, which will burden Slovenia’s budget with extremely high operating and maintenance costs each year in addition to the high investment costs. The previous one made it clear to the government that the government plane is a project far beyond the capacity of the Slovenian budget and also our economy. Clearly, this is a project that was created as a result, or as a legacy, and as a continuation of the thinking of the former autocratic regime, when it was necessary to provide for the luxury of domestic elites, irrespective of the state, economic capacity, sacrifice and abandonment of citizens. The domestic elite needed to ensure everything, including more than the presidents and elites of other more developed countries. This year, soon after the implementation of the budget, the government announced sharp austerity measures, and the aircraft was mentioned as unnecessary and too expensive by both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. Various possibilities of arrangements for use or even for aircraft broadcasting have been mentioned. We've been expecting citizens to take a serious step. However, only one or two days before the decisions on freezing of funds from the State budget or prior to the publication of the austerity measures were silently signed the contract for the construction of the hangar for that particular aircraft. I ask: what is really going on with this plane and its garage and why the government is concluding a contract to park the biggest budget luxury right at the time of the worst state of public finances and austerity measures. How much are the operating and maintenance costs of this unnecessary investment estimated? Why is this government using such manipulation with the public and also with members of the National Assembly? I have another question for the Minister of Agriculture. For some time now, we have been closely monitored by various peripetions with chloramphenicol. Last summer, data were hidden for some time that a foreign buyer had warned one of the dairy farms that the milk prepared for export contained too much chloramphenicol. The public was informed of this with great delay. All the inconveniences were pushed under the carpet, as if everything were in order. No one explained where the wafer milk ended. After a few months of silence last autumn, the fall matter exploded again and followed, according to many, the excessive, inappropriate and too costly measures to cover the state budget. The culprits were not found. The only one who was sacrificed, and the one for purely other reasons, was the director of the veterinary department. A few hours ago, we were visited by an inspection of the European Union, and it came to the conclusion that there is considerable chaos in this area. The Veterinary Administration and the Ministry were only able to determine after the findings of the European inspectors that a preparation containing the controversial chloramphenicol was still being used. Although immediate reactions followed, there is no guarantee that Slovenian consumers no longer consume milk with too much of this banned substance. This is also confirmed by the concern and fear of an exhilarating statement by the Director or v.d. the Director of the Veterinary Administration, who, through the media, informed the public that the veterinary administration did not know that the medicinal products and preparations used contain chloramphenicol. Hence, even those with a public authority to control may not have fully read the instructions to know what the composition of the funds used or used is. They don't know what they're monitoring and what they're doing. This confirms that the control is aimed at raising dust and pumping rather than ensuring real security. I ask: Do you think that your services and bodies are within your ministry and you have personally implemented all measures in a timely and qualitative manner to protect consumer protection? What will be the consequences of these extremely burdensome findings of European inspectors, or of domestic ones, in particular, who will be responsible for these, more than obvious negligence?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you for asking. First, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Mirk Bandl.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Mr. Ambassador! The question is so wide that I doubt that I will be able to answer the whole problem in five minutes. However, I am counting on you to take advantage of the possibility of an additional question and thus allow me to say something else. First of all, I'd say I'm not going to go down for an assessment of why the plane was purchased. I think there's been a lot of talk on this subject. Everyone, including the public and parliament, knows everything. I will focus mainly on the hangar issue, as was the key question raised. First, I'd like to answer the question why the hangar. Why was this decision on the construction of the hangar ever made? There were several reasons, and today he is still talking about the need to make this investment. First of all, this was the great value of the aircraft, which was and needs to be taken care of, as is the case with any good master. Appropriate modern and expensive electronic and similar devices, which are highly sensitive, are also installed on the aircraft that is purchased or that is being built. The hangar also allows service of the aircraft, crew preparation for its work and also for storage of spare parts intended for servicing. Finally, if the hangar were not available, the maintenance costs of the aircraft would be significantly higher, following the certification provided by the manufacturer, several times the aircraft should be painted and much more should be invested in servicing or replacing various sensitive parts. Finally, as a reference only, all other aircraft owners have hangars and thus properly store and protect them. Also the Department of Defense, the police, Adria and others, who have their own surfaces and their own premises at the airport. A good year ago, in response to Mr Pečet's question, I said that the government had not made any investments at the time, and I made it very clear in the conclusion of this reply that it was true that the competent government services were also negotiating with the airport in the course of the flight project, in what way they would also ensure that government aircraft were properly chartered within the airport's development project. In doing so, it was considered at the first stage to provide the partial costs needed for this hangar by replacing the current State hangar. I must say that there is a government hangar at the airport, that it is obsolete and also heavily burdened by the development potential of the airport itself, because it looks like a cabin between skyscrapers. In essence, efforts, especially airports, as well as Adria, are taking place for several years to obtain this location for more important development plans. After all, the spatial regulatory plan, which has been in force for about ten years, provides for a general aviation hangar in this area, which, of course, must be according to international organisation standards, I think it is called ICAO, separate from other hangar areas at the airport. On the basis of this information and of this work, which was carried out by the competent services, later calculations have shown, in particular in detail, the investment laboratory, that all options for resolving this issue are essentially more expensive. At this point, I can say that, say, the country's independent investment in this project would be 30 million tolars more expensive. If we were to rent a hangar like this, it would be a rental of 690 million in ten years, so that the hangar would not be the property of the state. If it had been leased, it would have cost about 1 billion $100 million, according to the local word. Other options are still possible, but in fact each option was assessed on the basis of studies as being more expensive, so of course it was also an appropriate arrangement with the airport to make a joint investment here and, as such, was given to Parliament. The National Assembly has been informed that the government has essentially decided here to make the most rational choice, this is for its own investment. Such a budget and development programmes where this investment has been or is still involved have been confirmed by the National Assembly. [[A warning tone for the end.]] In the second part of the sequel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u237	Time's up. Mr. Minister for Agriculture, mag. Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you very much for the question to Mr Tank. Mr Tanko has certainly touched one of the most difficult areas that we must implement and adapt to in this country and follow. Only information that in Slovenia, on average, the majority of substances, such as milk, micro-organisms and so on, have been allowed on average for 30 times as long as they were ten years ago. This speaks of how horrendous and how horrendous the conditions for growers and processors are exacerbated, therefore, by the food industry. When we spoke to the French Minister a few days ago, he said that the European Union, which has far highest standards, simply had to stop and say how to further tighten these conditions, which neither producers nor the food industry could afford, would simply pay for the change and reform of the common agricultural policy in the coming years. That's an essential question. As far as specific and specific is concerned. In Slovenia, about 700 people are involved in the area of safe food within our ministry. These 700 people have set up a good system in recent years. This is also recognised by the European Union. If the European Union considered otherwise, it would prohibit Slovenia from having trade with the European Union every month and a half, given that it has the following inspection. Slovenia removes any errors and derogations from the road. Missions of the European Union are, as a rule, considered as a city on the basis of which, and a form on the basis of which they can be seen from the outside, where and in which further matters need to be regulated. In Slovenia we were informed of three key conclusions in this context at the last inspector mission, which was here 14 days ago - the next coming in the second week of May. The key conclusions were that there are not enough people on the veterinary administration to control the movement of veterinary medicinal products. Another time. As a result, it has been found that we have insufficient traceability between human medicine and veterinary medicine in the area of chloramphenicol flow and therefore require additional employees to work on it. The inspection in Slovenia, in this case veterinary, must have the possibility of action on the spot. This means that they must have a place on their faces, not a judge for offences, but a veterinary administration must close down the farm, prohibit the delivery of milk for a certain period of time and give her a mandate. The third group of comments was also linked to the so-called mode of information and in a way that essentially speaks of last year's lack of accurate and accurate notification by the veterinary administration to the European Commission. As Minister myself, I was informed exactly 7th or 6, I don't remember exactly, November, the veterinary administration was first informed about this last year in June. I also proposed to replace the Director-General of the Veterinary Administration for this and other matters. The veterinary inspection only had this comment on this work. But in the rest, as I said before, things were said. As far as the identified cause of chloramphenicol is concerned, it is clear that the only actual confirmed cause of chloramphenicol is the use of dermo spray. In Slovenia everything that has been strictly banned for years has nevertheless been used, although it is clearly known that it should only be used for animals not used in human nutrition. But this is the rest of the Slovenian way of thinking, which is not found and what is not found can be done. This preparation, and in this part it's a criminal investigation, things are perfectly clear. Why, and in what way has it just now come to light, because those who have used it have been hiding it? If it is found that it is a crime, appropriate action will be taken. But it is very clear that we eat safe food in Slovenia and that we have a system that works. Despite all comments, this system has been assessed among all candidate countries for the most effective and most effective and also for those with superstandards. We're the only animals under 24 months. The order is 30 months. We're banning slaughter from the risk countries 24 months ago. At present, there is also a total ban on the use of chloramphenicol, which other countries do not know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you both for your answers. Are you requesting a follow-up, Comrade Tank? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you. I would have some comments on both responses. First of all, Mr. Bandly's response. The fact is, it's one thing to talk about, it's another thing to do. It's just the characteristics of work and thinking in this country. We are talking about austerity measures and allow ourselves a measure or investment beyond that, after all, at times or at times when the country does not have very large financial capacity, let us afford superstandard solutions. We're probably in the air standard, the government air standard, among the first three in Europe. And all the other characteristics probably don't confirm that. On the other hand, somehow I don't know if this hangar is in the budget. I'm not quite sure. Now I think that investing in the hangar from the core development programmes is probably not possible or I don't think that would work. However, the problem is that whenever we consider any form of assistance to citizens or students, or various subsidies, we always come up with the answer that there is no funding. In this particular case, however, this has somehow come true, and it is not a problem at all. With regard to the reply of Minister Booth, however, he did not specifically answer either of the two questions raised. I specifically asked whether the services and bodies within the Ministry were personally, in time and in quality, carrying out measures to ensure safe food. I asked about the consequences of the Inspector's findings. That's what you've partly responded to. However, I would also like to be interested in the answer that certain important things in the agricultural sector will happen at the time of the visit of the euro inspectors. Is it negligence or incompetence, or is it the extreme pressure of lobbying behind all these measures that are not being carried out? I would also like to ask for an answer to this part. I also want to know what the milk turned into in that first part of last year, that milk that wasn't exportable? It was clearly explained, but it was also an alarming response, or the last time one of the milkers said that they would no longer be buying with chloramphenicol-laden milk. This means that, in fact, such milk was still being purchased at that time. In this case, I am also interested in what products were intended for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you. Minister Booth, I will give you the advantage that the darkness continues. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you very much. First of all, no milk containing chloramphenicol should be bought out. The sellers are responsible for the quality and integrity of the raw material. No one else. They have to test their milk at least once a month, and every day all the lines are tested. This is the way, unlike what has happened before and what all the countries of the European Union that are monitoring. This means that about half a percent of all samples are tested on a regular basis on a system of some rarely occurring, illicit substances in milk. In Slovenia this cannot appear in the repro chain. Another time. The milk that was then purchased and the products that were made from it were irrefutablely destroyed and sold nowhere because they had not obtained any permits for it, and we can also prove it irrefutable and absolutely. That's another thing. This year, the Ministry and the authorities did absolutely nothing demeaning. In fact, it could have been deplorable last year if the European Commission was notified too late and also the wrong notice. I have also proposed appropriate solutions to the government for this. On the other hand, as Minister, on the day that I was informed of the occurrence of chloramphenicol, I also reacted. And I went three days before last year's elections to the public and to the public, and I proposed and adopted certain solutions, even if it was clear on the other hand that it was not that I did not know how popular and popular. Three days before the elections, someone who's also a politician is going on about this kind of story. I have always felt a responsibility to consumers and, on the other hand, also a sense of confidence in my fellow workers. The moment I lose confidence in my fellow workers, of course, I am also obliged as Minister to take appropriate measures. And finally, once again, I say that the veterinary inspection of the last visit found out what I said earlier. Above all, she found a flaw, which is not enough personnel. I keep reminding you that this is why the government has accepted the approval of an additional ten employees to counter veterinary medicinal products. Secondly, she found - I forgot to say this earlier - that it is necessary to introduce into the Slovenian legal order an element which will link the European legal order and Slovenia in the sub-legislative acts. I have been warning this for a long time, but such practices in Slovenia have not been allowed and now the government will propose a solution with the law enforcement service, how and how. These are the things that have been said. However, I am convinced that in Slovenia we have an exposed system, which is certainly not only in comparison with the countries that enter the European Union, but also with some members of the European Union, a peaceful soul, to say the words, provides safe food for Slovenian and foreign consumers who buy it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you, Minister. And a word to the Secretary-General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Of course, Mr Member, the budget line enabling the construction of the hangar is in the budget for this year. That is why the budgetary user can carry out all procedures in accordance with the law on the implementation of the budget and the law on public procurement. On 24 January, the invitation to tender was published in the Official Journal for the Best Provider and on 24 February, the opening of tenders was made public. On this basis, the best bidder was selected on 13 March and a contract was concluded on 2 April following the expiry of the deadline for complaints or under the jurisdiction of this Decision. In doing so, of course, I must say that no one, personally, can claim to be me, but also to my subsidiary services, knew about the measures taken by the Ministry of Finance and presented them at the government meeting on 3 April. In this regard, I must not only deny the invasion, but also label it completely pointless in this matter. The government did not freeze the investment on 3 April and this investment could still be signed today or tomorrow. For it follows from the Government's decision that it concerns matters where the most favourable tenderer has not yet been selected. The Minister of Finance’s instruction of 7 April also makes it clear, in point 2.3, that the tenderer is deemed to have already been selected if he has received a notice of election up to and including 3.4. So in this case he got 13.3., so it would be possible to sign the contract today. Of course, there is a difference in the need for the consent of the Ministry of Finance, which is likely to be given, given that there would otherwise be compensation under the law on bond relations with the State. If I can just tell you how to proceed. Of course, I am used to constantly changing decisions and such and other solutions, but I myself cannot act - and I also require my services to comply with the rules, in accordance with the laws and decisions adopted. Nevertheless, I think that this constant change in decisions suggests that more hypotheses need to be made, what will be the solution. Thus, we must also have a prepared hypothesis or a solution to the possible hypothesis that the aircraft will arrive in early October in Slovenia, and so far I do not know any other decision than that it will happen, since the contractor is bound by the contract. Just because we are looking for a solution to the hangar, I have ordered my services to look for these hypothetical possible options to look for solutions that will meet a few requirements. First, that the contract with the contractor is concluded is legal and must not give rise to compensation for the State. Secondly, the aircraft will probably have to be hanged in the near future, either one or two or none, if any, but the capacity will be different. Thirdly, that airports in their development concept should not be blocked by the State, I stress once again, this is an airport development concept. Fourthly, the possible transfer of the State Hangar's investment to the airport and the possible rental of aircraft spaces or even later, if it were to impose a decision in the country to remain an aircraft, should not constitute for the State budget a more costly option than that which has now been chosen, as I mentioned earlier, as the cheapest option. What will be the real solution, however, depends, of course, on further arrangements and decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you. My friend Branko Kelemin has a question for the Minister of Finance. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u246	Thank you. Your Honor! As a result of the major financial crisis in the existing government, the government has begun to act, but according to my assessment, it saves mainly on investment items, which only further hampers economic and social development. I myself have been for more than six years, as I have already been a Member, warning and saying that our high standard is at the expense of voting and borrowing. Today, when you have, of course, at the expense of the government's operations, probably over 2,000 billion external debts, even in the government, you can no longer live, I think, in illusions. Apparently, there's no more domestic money, and neither is credit. I'm also asking who's going to bring all this back and how. At this point, however, I am more interested - because there is no domestic money - whether Slovenia or the government is prepared to draw funds from the European Community funds and other resources from the European Community. The 1991 European Commission's report on progress has made it clear that we have not actually exhausted all possible resources from European resources and that certain funds, a significant proportion, have remained inexhaustible. I ask: Is the government ready enough to draw funds? One of the problems that are emerging is also in the Agency for Agricultural Markets, where it has been repeatedly pointed out in the media that this agency is not currently able to implement all the measures that would draw on these funds. Because of the measures you have taken, as Minister of Finance, obviously follows - because you do not allow this service or agency to be able to implement these measures or to obtain funds from the European Community, I ask you: Will you guarantee and in what way that agency will be qualified and that all these funds will be exhausted? In fact, if we do not exhaust in this area and in other areas of European funds, then I do not know who will take responsibility for this if the inexhaustibility of the funds from this title is the same as in the previous report. Please, if you can answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u247	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. The Minister of Finance has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u248	Thank you very much for the question, no doubt very important question. It is an extremely bureaucratic process, how these funds are drawn from Europe and an extremely expensive process. Just to allocate funds, say, for agriculture we need 2 billion just to maintain bureaucracy, which then divides it. And of course, here is the basic question of whether we are ready to draw on these funds. I'd say so. In 2003 and 2004, Slovenia will benefit from EU funding in the form of pre-accession assistance, which is before we enter the European Union, and from the date of entry it will also benefit from the use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. This question was probably also raised. From the point of view of the use of pre-accession assistance to the European Union in 2003, the system of these funds is set up and works effectively, as the use of Phare funds is, say, more than 90%. With regard to drawing on EU funds in 2004, the system framework is set up in a single programming document - this is a document defining this method of drawing - with regard to organisational design and information bases being set up at operational level for the operation of the payment authority, which will be at the Ministry of Finance. Procedures for the preparation and implementation of the budget will also be adapted to allow for a greater degree of mobility between the different programmes and the budgetary users. The 2004 budget changes will include all flows from and to the European Union, in the budget of the European Union. The Budget Implementation Act will ensure the mobility of funds between programmes and projects. A payment authority shall be established in the Ministry of Finance and the Internal Budgetary Control Service shall already participate in the establishment of procedures, including internal controls and internal controls, for all users of the European Funds. It's a global view. Now maybe a little more detail, as much as time allows me. In order to prepare candidate countries for the management of the future Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, the European Commission has foreseen that the decentralised implementation system so far is transforming into an expanded decentralised implementation system. This is a system called EDIS. Intensive preparations for accreditation, as this needs to be accredited in order to be useful, the EDIS system in the Republic of Slovenia is already under way. With the timely and successful acquisition of accreditation for the implementation of the EDIS system to be carried out at the end of the year, the national authorising officer for this programme will ensure the possibility of using the available pre-accession assistance funds after the date of entry and will meet one of the conditions for the start and use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. The Structural Cohesion Fund is what's new. With regard to the use of Structural Funds funds, the Ministry of Finance will assume the role of the Payments Authority from the date of entry, as I have already mentioned, with the tasks prescribed by EU legislation to all Member States. In the Republic of Slovenia, there will be a single payment authority in the Ministry of Finance for all structural assistance programmes. Within the Ministry of Finance, the role of the payment authority will be taken by the EU grant sector, taking into account the role, experience and competence of the team, which has been very successful for many years through pre-accession assistance. During the month of April, the "twinning project" starting donation sector with a partner institution from the Republic of Austria, which plays the role of the paying authority in Austria to take on these skills. In the context of preparation for the use of Structural Funds, the Ministry of Finance is actively involved in the preparation of a single programming document with the Government's Structural Policy and Regional Development Service. The budgetary control service shall be responsible for the implementation of independent financial supervision for the EU Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and the pre-accession instruments. Maybe just what would matter. The use of the Structural Funds after entry is also linked, inter alia, to the full alignment of public procurement rules with the EU acquis. The Ministry of Finance has drawn up a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement and has coordinated it with the representatives of the European Commission. A full review of the draft law currently in government procedure has already been carried out and is expected to be submitted to the National Assembly in a short time. From this point of view, preparations are ongoing, they are not completed, they will be completed by the end of the year, but the matter is complex, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Kelemin, here's a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Thank you for your comprehensive response. It will certainly be very good for all Members to have further discussions and to make further decisions. However, I would ask or find out from your answer that even you may have little doubt as to whether, because of the complexity of the procedures themselves and the process of applying for this assistance, this aid is actually being paid for. I'm asking, do you think it's even worth pumping or not? Apparently in your answer, I've been able to trace a few doubts. The next question, of course, which I have repeatedly stated and advocated: Do we have enough large state projects, and what are they that would allow us to draw on these pre-accession aids and then the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, once we have this option in our future? Whether we have enough large state projects, we know that all these small projects carried out by regional development agencies or by individual municipalities and so on and are not worth reporting. For 30, 100 million, the costs of procedures, projects, applications and everything sometimes exceed the value of the project itself. Moreover, the biggest problem is that there are no allocations of these funds if a region has the right to exhaust itself and on the basis of a general invitation to tender it will prepare projects at local level for several billion tolars, according to my assessment, which will result in extremely high costs and in fact no impact. I wonder whether we have enough large state projects to draw on these EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u252	From my answer you have seen that as an economist I think that the system is, of course, more complex and expensive. However, we have no choice but to draw on these funds, so we must do everything, but of course as rationally as possible, so that these funds will also be exhausted. I think that the solution, which is longer-term, is to try to help those countries in the European Union that insist on simplifying the system and essentially the economy of this system in the new financial perspective that is now being drawn up and will be made by the end of the year. With regard to the Agency for Agricultural Markets, I would also like to respond. We have very long conversations about this agency, what is rational and what is not rational. We demand that, within the framework of these human resources potentials and the money available to the Agency, they try to increase their productivity by so much that it is possible to draw on all resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My colleague, Franz Puksic, will ask the Minister for Regional Development. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, Madam Minister! Slovenia is one of the low-decentralisation countries, so we are a very centralised country, as the volume of local finances in common public finances represents only a modest 12%. This is true in the world for those countries that are less developed. For developed countries, this percentage is about 30%. You like to say about Slovenia that we are a developed country, but not according to this criterion. The financing of local communities is one of the fundamental issues of decentralisation. Decentralisation is about increasing national economic benefits, and of course the benefits of the local population. This also depends on the autonomy of local communities. This objective was not pursued by the Community funding system. Nor does the adopted law on regional development and the establishment of a mass of regional development agencies. The newly adopted Act on Transport with Agricultural Lands will destroy those small complementary activities that have been, and many Slovenian farmers will be put into a winery relationship. This is also a question for Minister Booth. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, who is responsible: What are you going to do to make the trend of lagging behind in demographically threatened areas at least stop? When are you going to submit the law to the National Assembly, which will bring about 20% of eligible spending to some of the so-called appropriate spending, among other financially insolvent municipalities, an anomaly in the financing of municipalities? Just an example for Ljubljana for 2001. 13 billion over the so-called appropriate consumption of 65% compared to the country as a whole. What will you do to achieve regional policy objectives in particular in the area of population conservation? This is a very pressing problem throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This is where I especially point out Slovenian Gorica and Haloza. What will you do to increase economic development? Tax policy for the ratio as recorded in the strategy, from 1.7 to 1. It's much worse today. What will you do to prevent the territorial division of Slovenia into a quasi-political province, by abolishing institutions, courts, administrative units and so on, without adequate presentation and prevention of negative consequences in the area of employment, human resources consequences and, of course, increasing the burden of taxpayers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u255	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, and thank you very much for this question, Mr Member. I have to say, it's a little different now than it's been announced before, though. I must start by saying that I will respond to the part that is actually the role of the job that I am running myself. However, I cannot, of course, answer all the questions that should actually be addressed to the Minister of Finance. However, since coordination does take place within our service, let it be so. First, the answer to what we have also received as a written question. How much will the Slovenian government or how much will Slovenia spend on financing so-called demographically endangered areas in 2003 and 2004? First of all, I would like to remind the Council that, in fact, since 1999, when the law on the promotion of coherent regional development has been adopted, we are talking about 12 statistical regions, within this area of A and B regions, including most demographically endangered areas. For these regions, A and B, where the Pomurska, Koroška, Podravska, Savinja, Posavska, Dolenska, Zasavska and Inland-Kraška regions belong, both direct development incentives and, of course, indirect development incentives shall be devoted. In this year, when, for the first time, regional development programmes came to the stage of implementing projects, we started intensive coordination not only of the so-called direct incentives that will be allocated to these regions at 3.5 billion tolars this year, but also of those indirect incentives that were not already alocate with last year's calls or calls for proposals at the beginning of the year by individual resources. We are counting on taking the first step forward this year to begin more systematic channelling of resources from different sources. Above all, I am referring here to the resources of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Agriculture and, of course, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economy. In 2004, this will be aimed at direct development incentives of 3.9 billion tolars, in line with the current budget. Given that all regions, in particular A and B, are now preparing intensive implementation projects, we will, in accordance with the implementation projects, try to increase this share of funds that will be funded in accordance with the programme principle by pooling resources from different sources. Well, I would like to point out that in 2004, as the Minister of Finance has already said, Slovenia is also entering the so-called European structural and cohesion policy. And within this structural policy, 55 billion European funds will be allocated to Slovenia, with an additional 14 billion domestic resources to be allocated both to Slovenia and to each other on the specific items of the Ministry of Finance and will be allocated to individual regions for projects and within the measures provided for in the single programming document. I'd like to draw attention to two things here. One is that, of course, regardless of what we consider to be a developed country, as has been said here, European statistics place us, Slovenia as a whole, in the country of so-called Objective 1; this means that, in terms of the preparation of a single programming document, we cannot allude to resources specifically for demographically endangered areas and especially for more developed areas. For the rules for all countries that are in Goal 1 simply prohibit this. What we will do, however, will be done through the so-called preparation of the programme supplement to this programming document, which we are coordinating with the European Commission, so that we will try, with the criteria on the one hand, for which the funds will be allocated, to try, of course, to target most of the funds in the so-called regions A and B. On the other hand, we are also aware that these regions are actually the most limping regions in the professional skills for the preparation of projects, which has already been said here, so, in cooperation with the Agency, we will do so. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Specific technical assistance for the preparation of projects with two main objectives for regional development and the Regional Development Fund to these areas during this year: increasing economic power and opening new jobs in these areas. [[...]] All other local infrastructure will also be linked to this. As far as I am concerned - to answer only with regard to compensation - the financial leveling of the municipalities. A report on regional development is now being prepared, which will be received within a month by Members, and through which we will try to make clear where the key weaknesses of the current way of financing more coherent regional development are actually. As a result, proposals will also be made on how all the instruments currently affecting this area, including the financial alignment of the municipalities, should be adapted in order to improve this situation. On the other hand, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u257	Please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u258	The Ministry of Finance is also planning a tax reform and we will also look within it for solutions to this area. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u259	Thank you very much. My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u260	I mean, I'm gonna make the most of it. Because even if you make the most of this regionalism, you don't actually get anything. I have been warning this for seven years since I have been in this House, and unfortunately the situation is only getting worse. It gets worse because we never listened to those who came from these areas. When I hear you talking about financial reconciliation as some regional development, that's not true! These demographically endangered areas need to be ensured: for the first time, they will reach about the same standard in these areas as in other more developed areas. That means we have to get things to that point. It is also possible with a bill proposed by my colleague Luci in the previous term. If the Minister had looked at this law, given it to the National Assembly, she would certainly have contributed in that direction that you spoke about. Secondly, of course, it is only from here on out that the development of demographically endangered areas can begin and that the population will remain in these areas. Today, by abolishing institutions, by talking about certain statistical regions that have not been accepted by the government with a decree, rather than a national assembly with any law or anything, is the imposition of something that goes on the left hand side, in fact, and further centralising Slovenia. At the outset, I said what centralisation meant with regard to the financing of the local community as a percentage of all public finances. Of course, some of the billions you've been talking about, three and three and nine and so on. for direct development incentives, this is, of course, a drop into the sea, which should be completely different. A fine example is, for example, for areas such as Zasavje - a special law that would, of course, help these areas in this way to begin to develop at all. It would be necessary to do something in this direction, but unfortunately, nothing has been done so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u261	Thank you. If you want to?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u262	If you'll allow me to come by again. In any case, I am always personally acceptable to any good initiative, and in that sense I will also look at the bill you have drawn up, and when we come up with proposals for solutions, we will be happy to use everything that I consider to be useful. However, I cannot agree with you, of course, that statistical regions and regional agencies and regional development programmes do not have a legal basis. Indeed, in 1999 the Law on Promoting Coherent Development laid down very precisely which level of regional development programmes are being prepared, who is preparing them and how this area is being financed. We are currently within the law, which has been in force since 1999. Of course, based on the preparation of this report on ensuring coherent regional development, which I have announced for the end of May, we will make proposals to supplement or improve this law by making it even more comparable to what we are doing in comparable other countries to ensure coherent regional development within the European Union, and in the pre-condition of taking into account European guidelines and European structural policies in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Comrade John Sponik, I think he has two questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u264	Thank you, Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Today, quite a few fellow Members and colleagues have already turned to the Ministry of the Interior, Dr Bohinc, and I will do the same. The first question, Mr Minister, is as follows. I ask you: In what way do you intend to enforce the eighth point of the Constitutional Court decision issued on the initiative of the Association of the Deleted People of Slovenia, which requires you or your Ministry to issue, on an official basis, supplementary decisions establishing permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia from 26 February 1992 onwards, to the citizens of other republics of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia from 26.2.1992 onwards? So, in what way? Will you apply the Government Act and Rules of Procedure? And: At the same time as you are preparing these supplementary decisions, will you put in the procedure at government level changes to the law, as we, the legislators and the government, have also been ordered by the Constitutional Court? The second issue, the reorganisation of administrative units. This issue has been of great interest to the public, in particular because of the Government's intention to bring current administrative units together in an administrative unit at regional level. In recent days, as a Member, I have received more and more negative reactions from some of the environments or populations in which they are particularly concerned by their negative experience regarding the reorganisations of tax administrations. I know this is not your responsibility, but the experience with the reorganisation of tax administrations is that they think that the reorganisation of administrative units will also mean the poverty of smaller urban centres, both from the point of view of poorer or more difficult to reach services for residents and from the point of view of the loss of administrative functions of such centres. Mr. Secretary. What, then, are the reasons for such a decision? Does this decision not constitute an additional regional centralisation, which could even be justified in terms of costs, but not justified in terms of equitable development of all regions of Slovenia? Is the argument, as we might have seen, that this is a finding of a poor current situation in the functioning of administrative units - but this argument is written too quickly? In the past eight years, I have not been aware of any analysis of the functioning of administrative units. Finally, on various occasions, the competent ministers praised the good work of the administrative units when you shared ISO standards or when the president of the country and others awarded recognition for the most successful employees in the state administration. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u265	Thank you for the questions. Minister of the Interior, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u266	Thank you very much for that question. I already answered the first question today. It is a question of so-called deleters, where the Constitutional Court has imposed on us two, as you have rightly determined to draft the law and to issue so-called supplementary decisions. The law must remedy the constitutional shortcomings found or non-conformity with the Constitution. This is particularly the case with regard to the position of the Constitutional Court that the deadline was too short, so that the deadline should be longer than three months in the new law; the issue of the status of those persons who have been forcibly expelled from the country must be regulated; the so-called interruption institution must regulate, in short, the suspension of the stay, which justifies - the foreign status. And there are also some of these constitutional inconsistencies. This law will regulate the situation of only those persons who have not so far declared any procedure for obtaining either foreign or civil status in Slovenia. This law applies to the statistical category of approximately 4 000 persons. When I say the statistical category, I have in mind the following receipt from around 28 000 deleted persons or persons who have been transferred from the permanent population register to the records of foreigners, about 14,000 are expected to be acquired by different statuses from foreign to nationals and about 10,000 are expected to report their departure from the country. Therefore, there are 4 000 potential applicants for this status under the new law. This law does not have much to do with another job - the second job relates to the status already acquired on the basis of the so-called Act on Foreigners Founded, and on the basis of the Foreigners Act of 1991 and the subsequent Act and its additions. These are, according to previous findings, not yet definitive, approximately 7,300. For these, the Constitutional Court instructs us to issue supplementary decisions in force for them. Of course, before that, we will carefully examine the material consequences, that is, the financial consequences, of this decision, which is in fact a decision of an important dimension, including a legal precedent. We will prepare or already conduct a review of some 22,000 files, so to speak, of all those who have regulated foreign status in any way since 1992. And as we now estimate, there are approximately 7,300 of them within these 22,000 that are supposed to be deleted from the category. However, these things are not yet sufficient grounds for calculating the financial implications. Above all, we need to find out what it means for individuals to be granted this status a few years ago; for different people this is very different; some have received this status only in 2002, second in 1992, and it is indeed necessary to deal with all these issues individually and to determine for how many years, months, this status should be acquired. Once these things are calculated, when the text of the law is prepared, we will have things perfectly clear before us, and then we will start implementing the decision in the way that the government will then adopt its position, while the law will also be submitted. [[The ad from the bench.]] I have another question to answer, within this time frame. On this question, let me say this, I have answered this question for the last time. The three questions referred to the reorganisation of administrative units. For the last time, I've said that I think this reaction is a little sudden, especially because of this - you're asking for a real analysis, now this is the question in the analysis phase. We've done an analysis of possible savings. If we do something, i.e. if we do something to concentrate joint professional services at the level of eight or twelve administrative units, and I stress in particular, we do nothing to reduce the scope of administrative services in all 58 administrative units. Here I would ask that you understand that there is no need to reduce the network of administrative services, nor is it a matter of prolonging the route between the state and its citizens as regards administrative services. And of course, it is also not a question that is contained in your question, that is, it is not an issue of interference with instruments of more equitable development. These are administrative services, which are not of a development nature, which in no way affect the development of that area, but are governed by administrative procedures concerning issues affecting people as individuals. However, we are not reducing the scope of administrative services in any way, but we have calculated on a pilot project, which is not yet a proposal, nor a ministry or a government - we have calculated on a pilot project to bring some personnel savings, not so little that it is not worth the effort. Of course, with political support for rationalisation in the country to save and eliminate unnecessary duplication of professional services at 58 ends, if I am referring to the administrative unit. The debate so far on this pilot project, which was very rich between mayors and also Members, has highlighted the political dimension of this issue, although I do not think that this is the case. A coup d'état for reorganisation, which will not reduce the scope of administrative services, can contribute if, of course, it has political support - but this does not show so far - but to rationalisation and savings on state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u267	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u268	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have a supplementary question mainly on the subject of the application of the decision on the basis of the request of the Association of the Deleted People of Slovenia. Your reply, Mr Minister, was clear and courageous and I would like to point out here your position that, as a competent minister and as a lawyer by profession, you have pointed out that, however, this decision by the Constitutional Court in paragraph 8 was a juridical statement. This does not mean that the government will not enforce it, but I appreciate your opinion very much because I am joining it. I support your opinion that before you issue these supplementary decisions, the government will try to examine the material consequences of this decision, within the framework of the materials that you will prepare, in order to calculate the financial implications and to apply an individual approach. You have been very clear in your reply, and I believe that your answer is so that you can also challenge the Government and the National Assembly, so that you can also try to amend the law at the same time and that, at the same time, the addition of the law to Parliament, as the Constitutional Court requires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u269	Thank you. Do you want to explain more?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u270	In fact, it's just that it's possible to rush the law. In fact, we have been preparing the law for some time. We now have clear guidance from the Constitutional Court. It is true, however, that the law will not solve the issue of those on whom it is necessary, as instructed by the Constitutional Court, to issue supplementary decisions, but will solve the category of another population.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u271	Thank you. My colleague France Tsukati will ask the Minister of Health a question. Comrade Tuck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! My question is addressed to the Minister of Health. However, it refers to the consequences of last year’s amendment to the Law on Medical Services. It is those novels that have somehow upset the Slovenian health public and even in this national assembly came across different views, but it was finally adopted. This is because certain disputed provisions are very well known in Article 41b, which provides that full-time work must not exceed an average of 8 hours per week. During the transitional period of the following year, this will be possible not 8 hours but 15 hours a week, which is more, only with the doctor’s written consent. In view of the fact that only 10% of doctors have given written consent to such overtime in six months, there is a question of how to realize our obligation to provide Slovenian patients with continuous medical care, it is said, on Fridays and holidays, at noon and at night, 24 hours a day. Let me give you just one example: there are 18 anesthesiologists in the cell hospital, of which 4 are specialists, half are over 50 years old, which means they can refuse because of the disease due to poor condition, on call. Therefore, on duty only 9 and always three at the same time, because a traffic accident may require three operations at the same time, three anesthesiologists and so on. All hours a month on Fridays and holidays is 720. The working time is 176 hours and it is not difficult to calculate that 544 hours per month should be covered by the on-call service. Since they are always on duty after three anesthesiologists, each of them should do 181 on-call hours per month, which is inappropriate more than the law provides. Therefore, the Medical Chamber asked or proposed that [[End warning sign]] - to complete, if you allow - doctors to continue working for two months, not according to law, and to expect a change in this law within these two months. How do you plan to react if after two months doctors start to enforce the law you proposed last year?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u274	Your Honor! I also see in this question the separation between what, in fact, you ask the Minister in Parliament on behalf of doctors - or that doctors would like to work hours or less per week. In this year or two, we have experienced both, the desire for relief, and in recent times the desire for greater burdens than we have limited it to the law. Let me mention that these limitations - because we are obviously talking today, not that the doctors are overloaded, but that the law has burdened them too little. So let me answer that these restrictions are directly under the influence of the European Directive, that it is very likely that we will face some difficulties in the coming years, especially since the transitional conditions are only set by the end of next year, and that the restrictions will then be even tighter until 2007 or 2011. Let me add the following. First, at least by the end of 2004, the employer may exceptionally, if he has not received a new worker, also burden the doctor with 25 hours per week, which in this case would mean 100 hours, I do not want and I do not think that this will be necessary. Individual departments and cases of a small group of doctors are always listed. Let me give you global statistics. In 2001, only 16% of Slovenian doctors were on duty on average for more than 15 hours a week. 16 percent. At this point, 23 percent of doctors are not on duty at all. And the second thing I have said in this House many times is that there are more on-calls for one third than in any other European country, at least with those we want to compare ourselves with. The statement by the expert director of the clinical centre in recent weeks, repeatedly repeated, is that the clinical centre should have one third of the fewer duty stations. Three anesthesiologists in one department do not answer the question why almost every Slovenian hospital should have a traumatological department, when it is clear that small Slovenia would be much easier to operate when it had trauma centres at four, five locations and would join the forces of doctors. Because those short-distance transports would not, of course, be a problem; on the contrary, it would be more professionally justified if the work focused on some locations. So you're familiar with that. In short, the increase in the number of doctors employed by 2010 which we have published means 700 more doctors by 2010; the urgent reduction in the number of duty stations that we will have to reach, even though its doctors are resisting and not even helping to compare with the world, and the meaningful distribution of work overnight to a few centres, not to every hospital. Every on-calling section, I'm sure, to a large extent, I'm pretty sure, will solve the problem you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My buddy's still trying to suck. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u276	I see the whole problem is that in a year you haven't actually been able to solve the problem of on-call service in agreement with doctors. And this conflict does not diminish with them, since the last visits you made in Slovenian regions prove that no more than 5 percent of Slovenian doctors attended these visits. For this reason, I ask myself: How will you carry out a major reform of Slovenian health care without the support of the public health service without the support of health care providers in this last third of your mandate? Somehow I have been asked a question or a comparison with a reform introduced by our Edward Kardelj 50 years ago, when he in some way reformed Slovenian agriculture by not asking Slovenian farmers how to enter cooperatives, but by combining them with coercion and, of course, with the conscientious cooperation of local parachutists. But such a reform - we know how it ends. It ended with the terrible consequences that our agriculture is experiencing right now. I am afraid that this is also your approach to reforming Slovenian health care - that is, without finding a broad consensus among the public and those who will carry all the reform on their shoulders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u277	Thank you. And the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u278	I think, as far as the public is concerned, as far as the reform is concerned, [[I'm getting positive feedback right now.]] - Of course, the time will be this year for the public to be thoroughly informed and to assess how we interpret the current situation and what improvements we want to make. Let me mention that reform also reduces or increases the efficiency of health workers and doctors, and in some ways debilitates them. Third thing. I do not accept the claim that the Ministry does not cooperate with doctors. The Ministry is also working with doctors on the reform. The element of money sharing, clinical guidelines, clinical pathways, are carried out with the help of hundreds of doctors. If you constantly know from someone who knows what motives, probably political, you return the union struggle of doctors who is legitimate. At this point, let me say, I am performing as one of the members of the country who is defending funds from excessive wage increases. And if you're giving a historical comparison, let me respond to another historical comparison from health. The first sentence of doctors in the world was in Canada. At that time, health care was reformed in Canada, and universal insurance was introduced, which had not been introduced before. The doctor's strike platform was that Canada introduces communism, perhaps even similar thinking to what you've read to me. The result is known: Canada has introduced a universal system and today has one of the best health systems in the world. Allow me to say: we urgently need doctors for the reform and we also have them on our side, and if you repeat many times in Parliament that we do not have them. Second thing. We don't just need doctors to reform. We don't do it for doctors, we do it for the citizens, and those doctors who recognize it support the reform. So I'm sure because I know my colleagues when they see what we're planning with the reform and what things are going to improve for them, I don't have the fear that they won't support it any more. The current awareness of reform is, of course, a reflection of the fact that doctors have not always been interested in organizing. I think that the closer the reform gets, and the closer the legal changes get, the more doctors we get to participate in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u279	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Aurelio Juri has two questions for the Minister of Transport, who is not here, but he will ask the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u280	Vice President, thank you. Since I don't have my minister, of course I'm not going to ask a question here, I just said what I'd like to ask him, which he's already answered in writing. The question was, of course, linked to the fate of two important projects. So, the construction of the second track and also the realization of the Coast Guard project, which I can tell you have somehow stalled. I expect information, and I hope that the written answer will also be encouraging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u281	Thank you. More mag. Majda Potter. Question sent to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament! Social sensitivity to human rights violations and criticism of all forms of violence have increased recently in Slovenia. In this regard, amendments to the legislation are being prepared, accompanied by the need to improve the competence of the Slovenian police and its greater powers. Mass media and non-governmental organisations, which have been slowing down in their activities, can also play a major role in raising public awareness and their greater interest in preventing violence, with which the four walls, but also trafficking in human beings, have been covered up for a long time. In the European Union, there is a well-known action aimed at eliminating any tolerance for domestic violence. Its effects also reached out to our local community. In the final part of the material for the City Council meeting entitled Trends of safety phenomena in the Maribor municipality area in 2002, it says among other things how police work will be directed towards the future. I quote: "A great deal of activity will be devoted to the prevention of family violence..." and "...have placed values such as justice, courtesy, knowledge, skills and consistent respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms" and added "consistent compliance with international human rights standards", the end of the line. Dear Mr. Secretary! I ask: How do you respond to the problems of domestic violence and trafficking in human beings, which is a general international problem, to the Ministry of the Interior? Also: Are the resources provided in the budget sufficient to carry out the plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u283	Thank you for asking. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for this question. The well-respected choir! The prevention of domestic violence is one of the four priorities of the Ministry of the Interior in 2003. In addition to this priority, let me mention the fight against economic crime, the implementation of the national road safety programme and the fight against the Balkan criminal path. So aside from these three biggest, we give the most priority projects of the ministry violence in the family. Why? Because the data eloquently shows that this is becoming one of the areas of rising crime in Slovenia. Let me substantiate this with some statistics, compared in 2002 and 2001. For the most difficult, in 2002 - 9, in the past - 6 [[completed]] and 14 [[vs. 11 in the previous year]] Try. 67 serious injuries, only 26 in the previous year; 6 particularly serious injuries, only 3 in the previous year, which is a 100% increase. 536 cases of security threats totalling 243 in the past year; 86 cases of misdemeanour, 39 in the previous year and 218 violence, 141 in the previous year. Thus, in all crimes of this kind, the scope of crime has increased significantly, of course, not only because of increasing crime, but also because of the increased attention of the police on this issue. You mentioned police powers. Indeed, as far as domestic violence is concerned, these powers, at least as regards the prevention of violence, are insufficient. That's why we proposed a new institute in the new Police Act, which is a restraining order. This institution means the authority of a police officer to remove a violent person from a place where this violence is committed, whether it is an apartment, a workplace or any other environment where signs of violence, where life is directly threatened, is a human health. According to statistics, women are high on the scale, secondly, children, even older ones, as well as other categories. We believe that along this road we will draw a pebble to make the fight against domestic violence more successful. This is, of course, only one of the country's actions in this area, if not followed by measures in other areas: social, educational, educational and similar, then it will be difficult to achieve the results we want. And as for the second part of the question - trafficking in human beings is a modern phenomenon that all developed societies are dealing with. Slovenia is also quite successful if I am referring to so-called illegal migration. Let me serve you with one piece of information. During this year's period of the first three months, we have 10 per cent of illegal transitions from the number three years ago to the year 2000. In short, we have been able to significantly reduce the number of illegal crossings across the state border. Now this problem is linked to human trafficking in a narrower sense, where it is essentially the exploitation of women and children for sexual abuse, forced labour, slavery and the like. With regard to these crimes, Slovenia is such a target country and, above all, a transit and partly a country of origin. It is recorded in Slovenia between 70 and 80 different nightclubs, where illegal activity is carried out or somehow shelters are provided to women from Eastern Europe [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] An extensive program is set - if you only allow me yet [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u285	Please just finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u286	the programme under the special interdepartmental group that has been established. [[...]] This programme includes, on the one hand, a diversified preventive activity, on the other hand, an activity to raise awareness of professional and lay activities, as well as a programme to assist victims of trafficking in human beings. I would only say that this programme involves very strong civil society and other resources and that it also applies here that only through repression will it be impossible to achieve the objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u287	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Potrata, would you like to request any further answers to your question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u288	Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your answers. At the end of the day, however, I would ask you if you would like to or would like to comment on the April announcement by the State Department for Slovenia on the situation of human rights in Slovenia in 2002, where it is in the public domain, because this was specifically highlighted as a particular problem mentioned in the end, this is trafficking in human beings. What you have already said is that Slovenia is also a transitional country, surprising the fact that there is not so much talk about trafficking in human beings or such a slave relationship as women are brought into when it comes to domestic women's populations. However, I wonder: Are there any serious signs of what the report also states that some tolerate human trafficking at local levels? In doing so, they stress that the authorities at state level, it is said, cannot be associated with this phenomenon, but that local authorities should be tolerant of this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u289	Thank you. And I'm asking for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u290	I would like to stress in particular that we think the State Department's assessments of this issue are exaggerated. Slovenia, as far as trafficking is concerned, is not among the countries where such crime would be widespread and widespread. I can tell you that in 2002, the police dealt with all 21 crimes in the prostitution case and 10 crimes in the slave relationship, with a total of 55 people being accused of crimes in the field of trafficking. In addition, let me say that a widely diversified civil society is also a state-owned activity as regards prevention or the elimination of this phenomenon through awareness-raising, education and the like. What is true and what Slovenia is aware of and is already leading the proceedings is that we do not yet have a specific criminal offence of trafficking in human beings, to which we are bound by the United Nations Convention, which we have also signed and we are aware of and are already in the process of preparing and will soon be in the process of amending the Penal Code. However, I find it difficult to comment on the extent to which officials at national or local level overlook this problem. I would say that our assessment that trafficking in human beings and the phenomenon of illegal migration is an issue that we are quite controlling in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-22-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u291	Thank you, Minister, for the answers to many questions. My colleague, Ferri Horvat, gave up the question and my colleague, Bojan Kontič, is not present, so the issues are exhausted. I thank the Prime Minister and the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I'm closing the agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for your cooperation and good night.
