ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Have a nice day. I begin the continuation of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogdan Barovic, Aloise Peterle and Igor Štemberger. We'll start with the 19th reading. Agenda items, that is, by way of defence, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on State border control, a reduced procedure. I'd like to welcome the representative of the government between us. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Dr Gregi Virant, for a further explanation of the bill's proposal, in order to further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'll be brief. The proposed amendments to the State Border Control Act are of a technical nature. This law only proposes the transfer of powers from ministries to bodies in their composition for the purpose of rationalisation, greater efficiency and cost-effectiveness of administrative procedures. It is a matter of transferring competences in relation to certain procedures from the Ministry of the Interior to the police, from the Ministry of Finance to the customs administration and from the Ministry of Transport to the Civil Aviation Administration. The applicant agreed with the comments of the legislative and legal service and also with the amendments tabled by the home labour body on the basis of these comments. So it fully supports the amendments of the parent working body. This law confers powers on operational bodies, bodies which will carry out these tasks more operationally and are also properly, territorially and territorially organised. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much! The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the member of the Committee, Mr Vojko Celigo, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At its 42nd regular meeting, on 12.11.2003, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on State border control submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 74th regular meeting on 19 September this year that the draft law should be examined in a simplified procedure. The representative of the applicant presented the reasons for the amendments and additions to the State Border Control Act in the supplementary examination. These are inefficiencies, inefficiencies, complexity and delays in administrative procedures carried out under the State Border Control Act. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to amend the bodies responsible for deciding on administrative procedures and thus to speed up procedures in accordance with the principle of economics. In this way, at the first stage, the authorities in the composition would decide instead of the ministries. Instead of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the complaint would be decided by the competent Ministry. The representative also drew attention to the initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 21 of the Law on State border control with a proposal for temporary detention and priority treatment submitted to the Constitutional Court by Luka Koper and the Airport Ljubljana. However, Article 21 is not the subject of this novel. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will define the initiative in its written opinion, which it is already preparing and which the Committee will also be able to take note of in its consideration of this initiative. The representative of the proposer said that they fully agreed with the comments of the legislative and legal service, which in its written opinion proposed the descriptive orientation of the authorities in the composition of the ministries. The members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. As its own, the Committee adopted two amendments to Articles 3 and 4. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the proposal together and also adopted them. By incorporating the adopted amendments to the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u5	I thank the representative of the Committee for his presentation. We will now hear the views of the parliamentary groups on the draft law. First, Mrs Majda Zupan will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Good afternoon. Since this proposal is also intended to be subject to less complex changes and additions, the proposaler is re-inherited to a reduced procedure. We oppose this in principle in our parliamentary group, because this way of working does not bring about quality laws. The applicable Law on State Border Control was adopted in our mandate, at the time of Slovenia's accession to the European Union. It is intended to include harmonisation of the legal order. In addition, there is an appropriate basis for the implementation and implementation of the Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement. In practice, administrative procedures resulting from that law have proved to be ineffective, complex, irrational and delayed. One would ask: Who was preparing the law? What kind of experts "prepare proposals"? What is the real control if the foundation is so inadequate? After all this, we can no longer be surprised that our neighbors are doing what they like. But with us, due to procedures that respect our country, which will become a member of the European Union next May, we are stepping on the ground and going to administration and bureaucracy. The police are the one who is solely responsible for controlling the state border and border control. It also has up-to-date information and information. Following the current regulation, the Minister of the Interior shall issue a decision in the administrative procedure in agreement with the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Transport. The complaint shall be decided by the Government. However, the Ministry does not have such information and information as is necessary for the issue of administrative acts in the administrative procedure. Let's get them from the police. As a result, the procedure is longer. This can also lead to a violation of the principle of economics. At the same time, it intervenes in the constitutional rights of the parties in the administrative procedure. It is therefore necessary to amend the authority's powers to be transferred from the Ministry to the police. Also from the presentation of regulation in other countries - for example, Austria, Germany, Italy, we can see that this area is carefully regulated, directly and internally by the police. However, we fear that this is just the beginning of the change and that we will soon get another set on the table, once they are competent to determine whether or not they will have to find out in the European Union that we are masters in complicated procedures and that we are doing our jobs for the sake of work. Why not organise state border control in a transparent and effective manner, when we can complicate everything and then we cry that others are ahead of us? On purpose, I sought a record of the opinion of our parliamentary group on the adoption of the law a year ago. There had already been a lot of comments on the bill, including by the secretariat for legislation at the time. The structure of the introduction has not already been formulated as required by the Rules of Procedure. At that time, we even felt that such inconsistencies showed a lack of appreciation for the legislative branch of power. The rush at the reception was great. The national programme stipulated that the law would be adopted by the end of June and enforced by the end of 2002. We have even suggested that he be rejected because of great inconsistencies, laxness and uncoordinatedness. Also in the lesson of preparing the proposal as necessary. It's only been around for a year, and we're already fixing this same law. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be proud of adopting such bad laws. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much! The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thanks again for saying that. We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on State Border Control. Since the application of the existing State Border Control Act, 1.1.2003, practice has shown that some solutions to the law have to be adapted to specific situations of life. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that, given that the control of the state border by law is solely the responsibility of the police, that the police have a review and up-to-date data on the state, transparency and accessibility of the territory, some competences are indeed transferred to authorities that will, at a given time, deal more effectively with current problems along the border than has been the case so far. For the same reasons, we also support Article 5 of the draft law, which provides that instead of a minister responsible for internal affairs, such as this has so far been the permit for the entry of foreign security authorities into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the Director-General of the Police will issue. In the DeSUS Group, we support the position of the Internal Policy Committee and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. We will also support the bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much! Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Your Honor! At the time of the adoption and consideration of this law, we could say: 'What luck it is to join the European Union, because this means that we must harmonise ourselves with the European acquis. But not just that. We need to harmonise ourselves not only in a normative but also in an operational sense, at the implementation level, we say, in our conduct. The Law on State Border Control, now in force, is a typical bureaucratic law in the spirit of another time, even though it is a bad year. So far, border control has been exclusively our internal affairs, irrespective of the strong bureaucratic approach and the search for all possible and impossible consensus and long-term procedures, interviews, coordination and so on. On 1 May the following year, Slovenia will become a full member of the European Union. Our borders will no longer be just our inner affairs. But our external borders will also become the external borders of the European Union. This will also make our border procedures important for the European Union and its functioning. After the law in force, they shall issue decisions in the administrative procedure of the ministers responsible for each area. These do not have the relevant information and services for this work, so they are used by the authorities in their composition. For example, the Minister of the Interior, who issues decisions, shall serve the infrastructure of the police, which shall be properly staffed and organised on the ground. So, the clear question is: Why not issue decisions to the police without unnecessary administration and transmission of data to the higher authorities? The proposed change ahead of us also introduces this. We could say, at last. The same procedure is with the Ministry of Finance, which issues decisions and works essentially by customs. Why don't we just issue customs decisions? The proposed change ahead of us makes it possible. I'll say it again, finally. The same relationship between the Ministry of Transport and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for civil aviation. Exactly the same. Now let me remind you a little bit about the chronology that describes what happened to this law a year ago. Actually, we haven't forgotten what happened a year ago. According to the data on the network, we can see that the proposal put forward by the government was the same as it is now before us. That's what it says, Article 18 says: "Police Director can..." and so on. So he's the director. The same is true in Article 19: "Director of Police Administration..." and so on. But in second and third reading, we had amendments to paragraphs 18 and 19. Look at the miracle! In the first paragraph, the words "Director of Police Administration" are replaced by the words "Minister responsible for Home Affairs". The words "directors of the Customs Office" are replaced by the words "minister responsible for finance". In the second sentence of Article 18(1), the words "director of the police administration" shall also be replaced by the words "minister responsible for internal affairs", "Director-General of the customs administration of the Republic of Slovenia" with "minister responsible for finance". That's what we're saying. That's where we're complicated. See the explanation: "The amendment takes into account the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to transfer competence to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs for Finance, etc. " Interesting! Interesting! We are masters of complication, as my colleague said before me. The magnetograms of this meeting also state that our Group of Members has pointed out the competences, the complexity of the procedure and the difficult work. In particular, we have been - I will say - paying attention to the construction procedures in the border band and the powers of the local communities. Of course, that was slightly rejected at the time. It was smoothly rejected. But today, probably when they have from somewhere else warned us that we are really masters of complications and that the European probably will not be able to carry it on at its external borders, we come up with that normal proposal, which has already been tabled by the government. That's what I have to say! Without what we later accepted, of course.They probably convinced us in a big way that it was necessary. Our client's opinion and warning was totally out of line. See, the explanation says that because it is so complicated, the principle of economics is violated in an administrative procedure that requires rapid and effective decision-making. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll be right with you. [[...]] At the same time, it intervenes in the constitutional rights of the party in the administrative procedure. Yeah, like they didn't know! It's like we wouldn't take it! It's like someone else accepted it. This is a great deal of what we do in the National Assembly. This proposal, which is now before us, is probably the right one, is better. We talked about this years ago. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will confirm the proposed proposal. It is said that we will vote in favour because we think it is good and eliminates unnecessary administration. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much! The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! The forthcoming accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union places a great deal of responsibility on citizens and citizens of Slovenia and on all its inhabitants and inhabitants, as well as on the responsibility of the international community, in relation to the state border, at least until the European Union's re-enlargement. Therefore, the United List of Social Democrats attaches great importance to issues related to the regulation of State border control. The proposed amendments to the law, however, point us to the idea that the urgency with which we had to deal with the laws so that we could quickly take over the European acquis has also brought some solutions that have proved to be unacceptable or ineffective in a relatively short time. This is also the main reason for the proposalers to consider this amendment relating to the law which entered into force with the beginning of this year. The meeting concluded that, in the event that border control was within the purview of the police, the provision to date - after which the decision on administrative procedure was issued by the Minister responsible for internal affairs, in some cases it had to obtain the consent of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Transport if the border crossing at the airport or runway was to be amended by transferring the decisions to the body in the composition. In some cases this means to the police because it has all the necessary information. In other cases, however, to another relevant body in the composition. Data collection prolonged the process. This violated the principle of economics in the process. However, in the event of a complaint, the parties were running out of time to submit the complaint. Since these are therefore changes that will simplify and shorten procedures - and, according to the greater speed of the proposals, greater security for citizens and citizens is to be ensured - we will support the proposed amendments to the bill in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much! The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Border Control [[EPA 982 / III]] . Slovenia will join the European Union on 1 May 2004. Adaptation to the European acquis has taken place in a number of areas. Part of this has certainly also been the implementation of the Schengen acquis and in accordance with this Convention on the implementation of the Schengen Agreement. In accordance with the Schengen Agreement and the implementation plan submitted by Slovenia to the European Union during the negotiations in May 2001, our country is expected to be qualified by 2006. This date alone will eliminate border controls. All traffic barriers at internal border crossings will be removed. This means that we will join the so-called Schengen Europe. This means, in principle, that there is no border control between countries and that all of us, without exception, will also be citizens of Slovenia, can go anywhere and not only through border crossings. The Law on State Border Control is the basis for the implementation and implementation of the Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement. We believe that it is necessary to ensure that this law and the Schengen Implementation Convention can be implemented in a rational and effective manner. It's useful to upgrade it. This has already been demonstrated by practice. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the bill. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much! The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you very much! A nice greeting to all, as many of us are gathered together in the hall! It is true that Slovenia will be a full member of the European Union from 1.5 next year. We expect it to take full over the Schengen acquis by 2006. It is also true and we can also observe this in recent days through media reports that Slovenia is fasting, and even in some of the segments of the advance, the announced dates of our implementation of the individual points that we need to implement by certain dates. Thus, next week will be the opening and surrender of the purpose of the largest border crossing at the Schengen border, this is the border crossing of the Coast. As early as 1 January, certain activities under the Schengen and European legal order will begin at this border crossing point. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we welcome the adoption of the last acts and measures by which it will be simplified or which will prevent further complications in the already difficult circumstances that await us. And the law before us is one of those. We have another item on the agenda. This is the adoption of the Agreement on the simplification of border control actions between Croatia and Slovenia. This act, as well as the one we will adopt tomorrow, brings us closer to our wishes and demands that we harmonise both the rule of law and the users of border services. For all this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support this law. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much! Also the position of the Slovenian National Party, presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u18	Respectable present. According to an assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the law before us is solely due to the headless adaptation of the European Union. The law before us shows how the Slovenian government, the executive branch of power, has drawn up laws. How he works ahead of time to simulate laws, how laws will behave, and where laws are directed. The Slovenian government is proposing laws without knowing how they will survive, what are up-to-date information, what is done in the title of the law, and how the law will satisfy those for whom they are written. According to our assessment, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State border control adopted by the National Assembly under the pretext of adapting to the European Union is a matter of urgency and quality at the beginning of this year. Today, a few months after that, we get from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the executive branch of the government information that the law, which was advocated six months ago, is effective, is rational and is uncomplicated and will carry out a variety of delays in administrative procedures, a different explanation. Today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is of the opinion that the existing law is ineffective, irrational and complicated and delayed. According to our assessment, it is far worse than meeting today with changes and amendments to the law, especially the way in which the law is drawn up within the Ministry of the Interior. According to our assessment, it shows us that all together, and above all, the legislator, could ask us what kind of laws we are enacting. If it is necessary to replace the law after six months due to completely different arguments as they were adopted. It is also very sad, according to our assessment, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not know at all who has up-to-date information in our country during the drafting phase of the basic law. This indicates that the logistical Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not operate at all. On the other hand, it is necessary to ask whether this was only a mistake of this law or whether it was a mistake of all Slovenian legislation. In the national party, we fear that the stories of this law will soon be translated into the stories of other laws and that the legislation adopted in this mandate under the European Union's adaptation tactics will prove to be a bad law in the long term. Like that legislation that had one and only one interest in adoption. This is in Europe to show that we have harmonised laws. The result will be that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will see that we do not have laws written for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Personally and in the national party, we still believe that it is our job in particular to achieve such legal conditions, restrictions and rights as will be reflected in the quality of life of our citizens. The quality of our citizens in all those areas which include a certain substance of a certain law. With existing practice - as confirmed by today's case - this is not the case. I therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia one and only question on which our support for this change depends. First of all, how long-term are the solutions to this law? Did you think more about this marriage than you did about the previous marriage? For if we receive an answer that this law will apply only three months after three months, the inefficiency and irrationality of the substantive changes that the government is adopting today will be completely irrelevant in the adoption of such a law. If the government admits that it was solely its fault in the past because it did not make the laws into domestic content, we will adopt the law. Everything we want in a national party is just quality laws. Not by any means such a creak, under any name. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much! We have heard the position of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State very much for his cooperation. At 10.40 a.m., we will move on to the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. Until then, I'm adjourning. We'll resume at 10.40 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u20	Dear Members! Let's get back to work. Between us, I welcome the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving to 21. At the beginning of the day, this is the first draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income. The draft law was tabled by Mr Pukšič and Mr Kelemin. With regard to this law, there is a group of 11 Members with their first signed magi. Mr Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to the draft law to further explain the bill. I invite Mr Branko Kelemino to give us a further explanation of the bill. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much! Respectable all together! The Income Act is one of the most important laws. In fact, the Income Act deals with a subject that is so important for every citizen who generates income in one way or another by his work. Even for those who work hard to earn their income. In short, this law deals with the subject of all citizens and non-citizens who in any way earn income in Slovenia. The Income Act has certainly been the case for many years now, and we've all found many times - calls out not to say, even screams after certain changes. The government in this area doesn't want to do anything. Members of the authorities also do not want to do anything, even though they are aware of the problems in this area. Nor does the leadership of the National Assembly, which is a very important element in this country, do anything. I don't know why we even have one. Therefore, in 1997 we tabled a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Income Act. All those proposals, which were submitted in 1997, were almost out of date in 2003 and at the 2004 transition. It has to be admitted. This also points to the very strange and incomprehensible attitude of the policy of the National Assembly towards a particular issue, to the resolution of such important issues as the issue of amendments and the addition of the Income Act. That is why it is difficult for me today to defend an individual article, a single text. However, the topic remains extremely topical. Therefore, the first one today considers that it will be possible to establish in the debate the position of parliamentary groups or political parties, the government's position on the proposed and other changes that would be necessary and necessary in this law. If there is a political will and, in general, the will of all the actors I have already mentioned to prepare a proposal in the second reading, amendments that can be common to the proponents, the political parties or the parliamentary groups and the government, and that we are trying to move things forward in this area. The most important amendment that we are trying to correct by proposing amendments to the Income Law is certainly the introduction of a zero rate. We should talk about this, I'm sure. For we know that those with low personal incomes are increasing and that they are extremely urgent reliefs in this area. It is also an extremely important relief to address the housing problems of the debtors, especially for young families, for those who acquire their first apartment. We've been trying to get some changes into the housing law. Unfortunately, we failed at that time, too. These things need to be resolved in the long run. We know what's going on in this area. We know what's gonna happen next year. If we do not approach an effective solution to this issue, which will at least be comparable to European countries, especially those we are approaching today, then we are also extremely conservative and even inconsistent about the approximation of our standards to the European Community or to all other countries in general. Although the government has announced a change. He says that this proposal will be tabled in the National Assembly. Even with some of the solutions that we have provided. We're finding that this is going to happen too late. We estimate that this bill should be completed and adopted, if only given this year and that it would enter into force with 1.1.2004, not only as announced by the Government, from 1.1.2005. We propose that this bill be considered and also adopted for a second reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much! I would like to invite a representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Milojko Kolar. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you for your word. All right, everybody, welcome! Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to that proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes the following amendments and additions to the Income Act: The current Income Act in Article 7 provides for 11% of the average wage of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. It is intended for all taxpayers. That relief shall have the nature of the general relief. This also indirectly determines the non-taxable part of the income of each individual. That relief was introduced by a law adopted at the end of 1993 with a view to decommissioning lower income classes. By reducing the relief for various purposes on the basis of invoices, which was then reduced from 10% to 3%. This relief can only be imposed by those debtors whose income is sufficiently high enough to allow investments for different purposes. So, as a rule, it can only be used by higher-income debtors. Therefore, it is much more appropriate to increase the overall benefit in combination with lower income in the first tax class with the aim of unloading the minimum income classes as an instrument. The Government notes that the situation changed significantly at the time of the postponement of that proposal in 1997. Therefore, a comprehensive change in the system of taxation of the income of natural persons is necessary. In addition, it is necessary to adapt the system of income to internationally comparable standards, as well as to adapt the income to the rules of the European Union. To this end, the government has drawn up a comprehensive proposal and a new system of the Income Act, which is in the final stage of both coalition coordination and government procedure. The basic objectives of the law are also the global burden on all taxpayers for income. Especially those in lower income. This load will be sensitive. It will increase from 11% to 17.2% of the average wage of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. The rate of taxation of the lowest lower class will also be reduced. It is envisaged that this law will enter into force as from 1 January 2005. In view of everything that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has said, it does not support the adoption of a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much! The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. The proposal for a Law on Income or Amendments to the Income Act, submitted by a fellow Member and presented by him, will be supported because it solves fundamental complications in Slovenia. So, the difficult life of layers of people with the lowest social economic status. Slovenia is in transition. Some, at the expense of privileged positions in this elite layer, have provided themselves with extremely good positions of social economic position. But for the rest of us, there's nothing left. So, this marriage, this change of law is welcome. Indeed, there is something that the representative of the Government has said. There are still many things that need to be changed under this law or under the Income Law. Surely the part relating to allowances for dependent members is for children. So that segment that has long been past the constitutional decision and which should have been resolved long ago. There is a great deal of interest in solving some of the marginal issues that are irrelevant to the ruling coalition. For the hardships of the people of the periphery, the real hardships of survival, either in the residential area, or the survival of children, or in education, there is little understanding. It would certainly be necessary to include this decision in this law. However, this gesture by a fellow Member is good. She should be supported. Let us recall what we have supported in terms of ensuring equal accessibility for persons with disabilities this week. We have incorporated a provision in the Animal Protection Act concerning guide dogs. This provision, however, would be subject to the law on - we call the integration of persons with disabilities into society or something else. But we know what the content is. Then it is certainly good to adopt this law in a short or fast manner and show a certain gesture for those in our country who are in distress because of inadequate social economic policy. We'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you very much! Mr Marko Diaci will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We are aware of the fate of this proposal for a law that we have before us. Like most of the laws proposed by the government, the opposition will be rejected as inappropriate. Its treatment is intended only to prepare room for the new Income Act, which is being prepared by the Government. But we are still using this as an opportunity to draw attention to an inappropriate and discriminatory Income Law. The Constitutional Court has already warned of this. The proposed law introduces two fundamental amendments relating to general and specific facilitations. The first change would bring a burden on low-income taxpayers. We must be aware that in Slovenia the rate of people living on the edge of poverty is increasing. Surely this is the work that is now being done by the State in its entirety. High taxes and an inappropriate tax scale on income from this poorest segment of the population are disproportionately high taxes. On the other hand, through social transfers and various forms of assistance, it allocates money to them. Meanwhile, the richest segments of the population are undertaxed compared to the poorest. In the Young Slovenia Party, we particularly support the changes relating to relief for the solution of the housing problem. In addition to the proposed amendments, it would be necessary to explicitly include renting a dwelling or apartment in an article of the law relating to relief. Now it's easy to recognise rent as a maintenance cost. 40% of the paid annual rent, as far as profit is concerned, or 80% when it comes to non-profit rent. Sadly, many, especially young families, who first solve the housing problem, cannot afford to buy or build their own apartments. That's why they're forced to rent apartments. The problem of renting an apartment is also the failure of the state to operate on the real estate market. The vast majority of apartments, mainly in the capital, are turned over in black without contracts. In addition to the fact that the State is losing millions of sums that could be collected by taxes on pensions, renters cannot apply the indemnity as an income relief without contracts. This puts them in a subordinate position. We also strongly support the introduction of the possibility of facilitating the reduction of the income base for the payment of that part of the interest on housing loans that are higher than the interest on the housing fund. We believe that buying an apartment is such an investment that only a small part of the population in Slovenia can do without bank loans. In addition, a large number of people save in the national austerity scheme. With the end of the first five-year savings, it is expected that there will be a huge demand for housing and credit. All savers, as well as other residents, will certainly not comply with the requirements of the Housing Fund for the granting of credit. Long-term credit demand will also be high in business banks. Despite the fact that the government has collected a reduced tax rate for housing and houses until the end of 2007 in the negotiations for Slovenia's accession to the European Union, a national austerity scheme will not be completed by the end of 2007. Following this date, higher housing prices are expected as a result of the increase in the tax. Most of the savers who have decided to save this savings are saving for a period of 5 years, but the savings will certainly not be enough to buy the apartment. For this reason, the majority of depositors of the bank's favourable loans will be repaid for at least 10 or 15 years. It would therefore be appropriate to consider interest greater than the interest on the housing fund as a reduction in the base on income. The main amendment introduced by the bill is a 20% reduction in the estimated income in the first ten years following the purchase of an apartment or a house. In view of the fact that an investment in the purchase of an apartment or the construction of an apartment by the level of the funds is not comparable to any other investment by the taxable person, which is considered to be an income relief, it makes sense that the calculated income is reduced accordingly. At the same time, this would further increase targeted savings to address the housing problem and increase the construction of the necessary facilities on the market. A comparison can be made with Germany, which has contributed some money since 1996 to taxpayers who are building or buying an apartment that they themselves will use. The basic cash assistance shall be provided for the year in which the taxable person actually moves and continues to be limited to a further seven calendar years from the purchase or construction of the apartment. As I have already mentioned, Members of the Youth Party will support the bill, even though we know what its fate will be. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much! Mr Franz Puksič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u29	Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State, nice greeting! What do you want me to say, exactly? After six years, a law that had fair and good intentions to be placed on the agenda by the ruling coalition in the National Assembly takes place. This is actually the relationship of the ruling coalition to the Slovenian countryside, to equitable regional development. So, totally uneven. And, of course, to the layer of the inhabitants for whom this law was written. Why was I one of the proponents? Why was our party an instigator and proponent of such a law? Because I come from areas where wild privatisation or the place of social property is actually the most devastating. The biggest storms took place in Styria and Prekmurje. Since I came from this area, I wanted to do something for this population right after 1996, after the elections, in my first term. If anything, then in the financial field, on such a prepared income. We were aware that such prepared income was unfair and unfair to those hundreds of thousands who had extremely low incomes. Surprisingly, even after six years, these relationships have not changed. Unfortunately, we still have hundreds of thousands of people on one side with extremely low personal incomes - those who do have 50, 60 or 70,000 tolars to work with - and several hundred Slovenian rich people who have become rich at the expense of damaging social property. Therefore, our proposal for a law in the second paragraph referred to the amount of tax bases. Therefore, we have proposed the introduction of a so-called zero rate and a change in incentives from 3 to 10 per cent. The table in Article 5 of the proposed law shows that the higher rate of income, 10 percent, would pay a lower number of people, i.e. those extra rich in the Republic of Slovenia. That's right! If article 2 of the Constitution states that we have a legal and social state. The Income Act doesn't follow that. Don't follow the stop in this direction. In Article 5, we have written down the introduction of a new rate and broken down how to increase progressively by 5 per cent. In Article 6, we had mainly young families in mind, especially those who start building their own space under the sun and start solving housing problems. Why? I'll read the explanation for Article 6. It provides that the taxable persons who, through the purchase or construction of a residential house or apartment, solve their housing problem shall be reduced in the first ten years after the purchase or after the start of the construction. Every year for 20 percent of the average annual salary. How much is that? The figure is roughly much higher. At the time, seven or six years ago, it was 315,000 tolars. With such a relief, 20 percent of the annual salary, they would be able to solve the housing problem. In this law we have foreseen and pointed out the ageing of the Slovenian population, the reduction in the number of children, the promotion and facilitation. Indeed, the fact is that in large cases there is a higher number of children in families where they have a weaker social status. The objectives of this law, the proposalrs, have been to pursue the current problems. These current problems still exist today. But naive! Too naive and too easy to expect the government to come up with a proposal to supplement, with a proposal to update certain articles, and to say this: "Yes, we are preparing a system law for 2004, entry into force in 2005, but we will see. In this law, however, let us do something for a year in terms of what they say they are ready for a system law and complement it. It's never too late to take a positive step forward." Sadly, though, there is another thing that happens to us that we prefer to take negative steps and drag them on forever. As is the case with the so - called Law on the Financial Equalization of the Congregations. Of course nothing happened. In addition to the fact that they want to abolish these congregations by burdening such local communities. In this bill we have also proposed that those living in demographically threatened areas should not live. In short, where construction is dispersed, because the infrastructure itself must be built to take this into account. Some give for building roads and plumbing and others for yachts. Colleagues and colleagues! I suggest you vote in favour of those who feel for the Slovenian people. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much! The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! In opening, let me say that we will not support the proposed law in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Our reservations are both technical and substantive. With regard to the articles of the reservation, we can now find together that the law which was introduced into the procedure on 9 December 1997 and which we are considering on 27 November - which means that we are only 34 days apart from 1.1.104. Given that this is the first case, it is impossible for this law to be adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and enter into force for 2004. In particular, since it is an extremely important substantive law and since all taxpayers must be aware of the content of this law at the time of this implementation, the current calendar year is said to be. So that everyone can figure out how it will be done over the year. We also have some concerns about other substantive matters. In the Joint List Group, we also note that the situation at the time of the postponement of this Act by the Social Democratic Party, according to 1997, has changed significantly. Therefore, our conviction is that there is still a need for a comprehensive change in the system of taxation of the income of natural persons. When he was in the procedure in 1990 - then indeed in the congregation - I was in the congregation myself at the time - we went into this law in terms of an integrated process. So, with the reform of the complete tax system. Even at the time of our adoption, we were convinced that this was the best law. We know that this law, which entered into force with 1.1.1991, has only undergone some changes. Those changes which were necessary and which had a substantive impact on the calculation of the income. Be in the form of a new law, which took effect from 1.1.1994 and with some subsequent amendments made in 1994/1995, or by implementing a new law on the tax procedure. This is just a few basic concerns that we believe must be addressed under such important laws in accordance with the reform of the complete tax system. If we look at the latest data available to us for 2001, we can see together that there have been more than 447 thousand debtors who have made a tax return announcement of over a million 157 thousand and that, in addition, there have been over 447 thousand those who did not have to make a tax return in accordance with Article 21 of the current Tax Procedure Act. Why am I exposing this information? In particular, because of the income assessment data from 1991 for which the income was first paid to the debtors, it follows from 2000 that there have been significant changes in the structure of the debtors or the method of income generation during that period. From the data available to all, we can see that in 1991, 63.5% of all debtors had only one source of income. According to data available for 2001, only 32.1% of the total. What does that mean? This means that most of the taxpayers derive income from different sources, which also confirms the need for synthetic taxation - as it may be called - of all single-tax revenues. This is the income and necessity of increasing burden-sharing between different types of income. One of the substantive requirements, which must also be contained in the new law, is the adoption of a law to prepare for entry into the European Union. Last but not least, this is what we are talking about in Parliament today. Finally, adaptation of legislation on the movement of people, services and capital. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Since I am running out of time, let me mention that for all these reasons there is still a need to prepare a new bill with a completely new concept and structure. This is also the case with the government in its opinion of this law. It indicated that it was working intensively to bring this process to an end with the rest of the tax reform and that this new law should be enforced from 1.1.2005. Therefore, in view of the fact that we do not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Income in Content, as proposed, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much! The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u33	As with the Law on the Extraordinary Reduction of the Tax Basis, we also believe in this law that the applicant acts a little unsympatheticly and tries to solve problems in the social field on ad hoc basis. We must be aware that tax legislation is a linked system. Any reckless or inconsistent change may have significant tax or political consequences. As with a partial solution, on the one hand, we can help to raise the income position of the debtors; on the other hand, we can cause difficult and unforeseen problems and inconsistencies. The removal of general relief just as without serious analysis of the consequences of this seems a little unrealistic to us. As we know, the government is preparing a new Income Law and several other tax laws. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will strive to incorporate appropriate social measures into the system's income law and, in addition, through budgetary expenditure for social purposes. We believe that legislation in this way would be far more social than with such partial solutions. Members of the SLS Group will not support the proposal. As we have pointed out at this meeting once before, we will strive and advocate the unloading of the weakest layers of the population in the new Income Law. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you very much! The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u35	Respectable, present! The income and material of the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act falls under the fiscal tax system. According to our assessment, it is necessary to look at the matter much more complex than a few speakers before me. The fact is that de public finances in our country are reflected in the budget, that for the Slovenian budget - unfortunately - it is exclusively living on so-called tax revenues, which make up our public finances of over 90%. Therefore, tax revenues clearly have the largest share of revenue. This demonstrates the stiffness of the Slovenian government, which has been constantly manifest since the very beginning of the new state. According to our assessment, this stiffness is a mistake. This is one of those mistakes that, on the one hand, inhibits social development and, on the other hand, certain segments of our society. It should also be noted that this principle, the principle of the functioning of the Slovenian government, namely that the tax revenues or revenues of the budget are almost exclusively derived from taxes, indicates some form of immature master. If the Slovenian government had the role of a mature master in its tax or budgetary revenue policy, it would also look at the so-called non-tax revenues from time to time. Let me say that even in a better role, that is to say, bringing the mature economy, the mature master, especially the local community. For the fact is that in no local community do we have this negative relationship between tax and tax revenues within local communities, local budgets or the state under state budgets. Here in this city, the country should be an example - although not the best - of the best example of local communities that can handle some of the so-called tax revenues. About the proposed law. According to the national party’s assessment, the aim is good. According to the Slovenian National Party assessment, the solution is good. Therefore, we cannot understand in any way those Members who say, under this law, that the law does not constitute a comprehensive solution, that it does not agree with the basic idea, but that it is to wait for the government to draw up some fundamental law that will essentially determine the whole of tax reform. According to our assessment and our conduct at the Ministry of Finance, they are preparing such a reform. Therefore, it is necessary to stress and from practice we all know how long it takes for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a comprehensive proposal. On the other hand, it is necessary to say this in behaviour to all those - who may not know who on the one hand advocate the meaning of the proposal and, on the other hand, in the same word or in the next sentence, say that you will not support the applicant - that there will be changes in tax reform or income in a different direction. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia plans its fiscal policy in a different form and direction than was the tendency of the proposer of this law. If we want to maintain some credibility of the national assembly, we cannot say that we agree with the proposaler's idea. On the other hand, we don't support it. In the national party, we will be very pleased to support the proposal for a law which is now being made, particularly by the amendments proposed by the proposer. According to our assessment, the proposaler seeks to establish a normal fiscal system and eliminate the existing tax collection system and various tax rates. Unfortunately, today’s system, that is to say, income as the main source of taxes, determines or places in a priority position or in a better one with high incomes. Because the fact is that our country, for one reason or another, known only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the ruling Members, gives greater relief to those with higher incomes. According to our assessment, no matter what pretense this is unacceptable. Slovenia is still a social state. Slovenia should still take care of all 2 million people and not just those who are politically or capitalally close to the ruling structures in our country. Unfortunately, the practice of establishing friendly ties at political or capital level has all become too entrenched in our legislation. This practice is particularly strong in the financial system. In addition, in the tax system. Our system, however - I'm sorry to have such a system, we can mark it with a parable or with a word - hit the poor man's pocket. The fact is, it's a property of taxes. A citizen who doesn't pay taxes will be punished. It has no effect on the payment of this. Therefore, the State can afford such a system, i.e. this amount of tax revenue. If the state should be a little more determined, with a little more knowledge, and - in my opinion for a little more maturity - give an emphasis to recent sources. I am only saying this because the balance between tax and non-tax sources gives us total budget revenues. To the extent that one is reduced, i.e. tax revenues - which is the national party's wish to adopt each budget, when any financial act is adopted - it is necessary to increase the tax revenue. However, increasing recent income requires good will and interest. From this city, for at least as many years as I have been in this National Assembly, I can say with certainty that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no interest in reducing tax revenues. The additional amendment offered by the applicant for admission also relates to the relief provided for in Article 9. According to our assessment, the proposal at this point is welcome. In particular, taking into account those introductory provisions of the Constitution, which we all claim to be the most important act in our society that guarantees equality before the law for all. According to our assessment, this article also ensures equality from tax policy. Whatever his social status. Therefore, it seems more reasonable for us to introduce a zero rate of income to be acceptable and legal for those with lower remuneration. The fact is, someone with high incomes is hard to imagine the position of someone with low incomes. That is why it is so much more incomprehensible that we do not know how to play the role of those people for whom taxes actually represent an extraordinary burden. We know that according to recent statistics about 300,000 people live in Slovenia under the poverty threshold. The material of the destruction of Article 9 by the motioner and our assessment would be in favour of these 300,000 people in our country. In general, the benefits are characterised at least in normal economies in order to act in a stimulating, accelerated manner. Therefore, we cannot say that Slovenia has certain reliefs of the size it has today. Because the existing relief system does not work stimulatingly. The proposed law cited the solution to the housing problem, construction, education. He outlined those areas that should be accelerated and brought closer to every citizen of our country. I will say again, not only to those who are capital or politically close to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that, according to my assessment and assessment of the national parties, this is the purpose of the proposed law. Therefore, once again, it is advisable to support the law. But it is true that marriage will have consequences. It makes sense to define these consequences as two-layer. The first layer, the one that I think should be the most important, is in achieving a just society, in creating such conditions that everyone can ensure education or that everyone can better come to a solution to their bibian problem. On the other hand, the law will also result in a reduction in tax revenues, which we estimate is positive in the national party. For this would be the elan or motto that would force our government to get out of this period - according to my opinion - of inactivity and self-determination. People will pay their taxes. We don't care. We are also convinced in the national party that - or I apologize - we will support the law in the national party. According to our assessment, the law follows and tries to prevent the creation of conditions that have become increasingly characteristic lately. So the conditions for creating an ever-increasing crowd of people who are at the threshold of poverty. At the same time, it should be pointed out that Members, Members and Government of the Republic of Slovenia have notified us in the last period with analyses of the various institutions involved in macroeconomic analysis. However, everyone points out that due to the inability to compete in the markets of the European Union in our country in the coming short term, we will have an additional 40,000 people. I think this is another argument that makes sense to take into account when making decisions. That is why I also appeal to all Members, let us support the bill of motions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you very much! There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, I invite you to the word "magic." Janez Drobnik, Dr. Brajc, Mr. Rokavac. Mr Pece, you have spent the time that the Group of Members has reported to this point. Bernick! He's not here either. Mr Jerovšek, Brenčič, Visjak. Mr. Pukšič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. One more time, colleagues. The fact is that the aim of the proposaler - as I said earlier - was to influence in particular the change in the reduction of social differences. This regret - as was the case with Members, some Members have been told - failed for technical reasons because the law came too late for consideration. It is clear that if the opposition had the opportunity and the opportunity to decide, the law would see the light right after it was introduced. Because he was extremely advanced. It has greatly improved certain areas in relation to social differences, with regard to increasing the possibility of relief for those investing in humanitarian activities, education, education, sport and so on. In particular, he had a motto for promoting, solving housing problems. On the other hand, we were aware that this law would even contribute to new investments, a new investment start-up cycle and thus to better living conditions. However, we have come across a barrier because, as with some of the other proposals of the laws that we are proposing - it refers to a wider range of citizens and citizens, not to a few individual elites who have become rich at the expense of everything else, are rich and still rich. As was the case with privatisation and actually the place of social property with so-called by-pass companies, by adopting legislation. The third option was to amend legislation in this criminal area. But this thing is still up to date. Lately, as we follow this way of privatising the iron and steel industries, we can see from the data we have, the guarantees that were also given in this national council, that only some 350 million euros were invested in iron. Today, the country sells this for 10%. Such an investment cycle and the distribution of goods in the country are not evenly possible. Again, it is a couple of elite individuals who will take advantage of it. Our purpose for new investments was good. He was right there. He was at the right time. He was driving this thing this way. By the way, you will remember that after the entry into force of the Income Act - I don't know a year or two after that - even law enforcement authorities in Slovenian Gorica came for one woman to the farm and put her in handcuffs. Not just that, in the maribor jails. She was sitting in a maribor prison. I don't remember exactly, or because she didn't pay her income. In short, something like that. But it turns out she had nothing to turn over. So she had nothing. Such anomalies and injustices that have occurred and continue to occur especially to those who have lost their jobs and to young families, we wanted to correct them. I only hope that this opportunity, the possibility of a social and legal state will also be experienced as soon as possible - as it would be said - from words to actions that we will have this opportunity as soon as possible and that we will take things in the way that it would be for 1 million 990,000 Slovenian citizens and citizens, not for that minority, 1%. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you very much! I'm asking the proposer, does he want a word? Here you go, Mr. Kelemina!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you! Your Honor, one more time! This bill is also about that general principle issue: Why don't we resolve these important issues quickly enough as they arise, and wait and obtain some information or data or indefinitely just because nothing happens? Apparently, it suits the government not to do anything in this area, nothing. Members of Parliament, those who should be concerned that things should be arranged in this country in the manner appropriate. In the current situation or even a visionary look forward to what should and should be well arranged for the country as a whole and for its citizens. This should even be done by Members. They don't do that. If the government doesn't do it, it definitely is. They're just advocating another policy. Members should again defend what they were elected to the National Assembly. At the same time, I always wonder what our leadership of the National Assembly is doing! Why do we even have the leadership of the National Assembly, among other things? Is it simply to hold meetings or to regulate and encourage even a member of the parliamentary group, political parties, to resolve important issues in the country? Really! If you do not have the necessary services to do so, let them be established. If you are so dimensional in this area, give them to me, and be strengthened. You don't do anything in this area. You're just taking pictures, and you're imagining that you're the most important politician in the country. In fact, you're not doing any good. That's definitely it. What we are proposing to Members, then you do not accept at the final stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u40	Mr. Kelemina, please! The leadership of the National Assembly shall have powers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There is no way he can coerce and force Members and Members to adopt certain legislation, Mr Kelemina. I ask that you, however, frame your speech within the framework of the bill's proposal, which you have proposed and please explain. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you, Vice President! We could get involved in some other area. But who forbids you to do anything other than what is prescribed in the Rules of Procedure? Who's banning it? Is there a ban on writing? No, it's not! As Members have every right, so has - I think under the laws to act in this area - the leadership of the National Assembly. But don't do anything. I also ask myself: Why do not the media make a scene out of such important issues as the proposal of the Law on Changes in the Income Law, so that they themselves - irrespective of their position in our society - can either step up or point out that things are not properly arranged? That's how much visionary everyone is. That's how smart everyone is. However, in order for someone to carefully analyze these things, they obviously do not want to be examined, because some social groups do not want these issues to be resolved pronto, quickly and appropriately, as they should be. We have given initiatives that make sense. You all agree that something needs to be changed in this area. But we're waiting forever. We will now wait until 1.1.2005 when the government remembers that it will put this in the process and that we will be the second year, if it will be 1.1.2005. This is now a question, a big question. This waiting, this stalling is the biggest cancer of this policy run by the authorities. I wonder when we will stop doing this and when we will begin to address important social issues quickly and effectively. Without that, there will be no efficiency and reputation of the national assembly and the reputation of the government, and so on. He won't. If the issues are current, they need to be resolved quickly. And we're obviously not capable of that. But not by fault of the opposition, not by my fault – I am also willing to sit all night, but by a month together if it is necessary to quickly solve the social problem or many social problems. That's it, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you very much! I give the floor to a representative of the government. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. I'm going to try very briefly to summarize and respond to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u44	Can you please get up, that's the way it is? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u45	I'm sorry. See, as I said in the introduction, a new proposal for a Systemic Income Act is ready. It is indeed at a crucial stage in both coalition and government coordination. Our plan is for this to come to Parliament as soon as possible, along with some other laws. Just like the income of legal persons. There are also some of these laws. The situation has changed significantly since the last changes in income, both in terms of income generation and income types in Slovenia. Therefore, such partial amendments as proposed by this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act are not acceptable. Because they simply do not save and give a comprehensive view of or a comprehensive system of income. I would therefore like to highlight what were the basic starting points or objectives of our new Systemic Income Law. As all debaters have stressed today the important social component of this law, let me say that we have also followed this basic objective. This social element was precisely the first objective of this new bill. That is why it is so drastic - if I may use this term - in the proposal there is an increase in the overall relief, which will mainly relieve income weakness. This relief is raised from 11% to 17.2% of the average wage. The proposal also reduces the rate of taxation of the lower income class to 16%. If we speak in this context, this individual or personal facilitates in a certain percentage, whether it is 3 or it is 2% under proposal - these are reliefs that actually enable those who generate higher incomes to benefit from this relief and channel it for certain purposes. This relief is also included in the proposal for the Income Act. It will also be intended for savings, voluntary insurance, voluntary supplementary pension, as well as for the resolution of housing problems. Several discussers also mentioned the problem of saving or solving the housing problem primarily for young families. Another very important objective and starting point that we pursued in the preparation was to tax individual types of income more evenly, to tax taxpayers more equally and to bear the burden of active income - these are incomes from employment and the pursuit of activities - into passive incomes. These are the incomes we derive from having assets. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much! I conclude the general debate. However, since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask: Does anyone else wish to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you very much! After five minutes of discussion, they have the following order: Mr Diaci, Mr Drobnic, Mr Sok and Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Diaci, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you for your word! I've got five more minutes or less, 4,54.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u48	Mr. Diaci, we'll give you time again. Several times we have carried out the first examination of the bill in the National Assembly. At least eight of the panellists I called weren't in the hall. Therefore, after we have finished with the panellists, we will conclude the general debate. We all know that. If the representatives of the political parties were not in the hall when they were invited, they left their time. Therefore, once again, on the basis of Article 71, all the presidents are asked who else wants to debate. Usually, by now, everyone's got five minutes. Unless there were more and less time, they also got two minutes. Five minutes tops. I won't argue. Just to explain, since this has been done in a number of ways in exactly the same way. Mr. Diaci has the floor, five minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. I don't have to give back the time, just give me those four minutes so I can have enough time. The more I debated, the more I would, in fact, ask the question in some way, and perhaps even ask some thesis. I will talk about this so-called 3% if I understand correctly - according to the new proposal 2% relief, which includes, among other things, the purchase of housing, maintenance of housing, construction of a house and so on. I feel or know that there is great illogicality. This is that a natural person who, for example, builds a house invests a certain amount of money into this house and then can benefit only 3 percent of the tax base. Then it happens that when people meet this quota, in some way they are trying to find options to avoid higher "costs" because then they can't actually use them in their income forecasts. It happens that people build, shop, maintain without bills. That's a fact. This is where the state loses. This, in my view, is in addition to a bunch of illogicalities in this Income Act one of the main ones, as the state on the other hand is losing value added tax. My thesis is that it would make sense to make this easier, at least -- let's say -- in the problem-solving segment of housing problems to increase or divide into years. For if, on the one hand, we lose this income in some way, we can gain it elsewhere. It's about VAT. In fact, people would actually have some of it. There aren't many of these cases. I also wonder, do you intend to solve this matter in this new miracle of the Income Act? Do you have any calculations on how much this VAT drop is? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u50	Mr. Diaci, I ask you kindly to limit ourselves. Not the new marriage, but the law proposed by Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u51	Yeah, I'm limited to this law. I mean, this marriage sort of solves these kinds of things. Since a better performance is coming, I'm just wondering how it's going to be resolved there. That's why I asked. But I'll finish. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u52	I just wanted to say that we can discuss the agenda item. The solutions to the new Income Act are not the subject of today's debate. Unfortunately, the representative of the government is also not listed. We cannot open this debate today and not finish it. However, there will certainly be plenty of opportunities for us to define up to the new solutions that the government will propose in accordance with the procedure that gives us this possibility. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much! First of all, Madam President, I object. If we are talking about the Income Act - and the government representative has also used it in some comprehensive solutions - then it is certainly allowed in the National Assembly to touch all the elements affecting income when we talk about income. You're not going to convince me with any parabolas, with what comparisons I'm going to define legal matter. I'm not gonna let that happen. You can take my word for it if I hurt anyone if I don't know myself properly. Besides, I can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u54	Mr Drobnič, Mr Diaci asked the representative of the government what will be the solutions in the new law. The lady has not made a statement and is no longer in this debate. I'm asking you, please, not to be embalmed anymore. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much! The representative of the government has a free say whether he answers or not. She doesn't have to answer, like I do. But this time I'm interested and I'll talk. Parliament, what is Parliament? So we can tell. You're preparing major changes, integrity. You promised complete changes to the disabled in family relations, income. I immediately counted three laws, where the government has been preparing the integrity of the changes for two or three years. And you guys go somewhere with these whole changes. It's just sand in your eyes. Prepare them once and for all. You don't have them ready. That's the problem. This marriage is fine. He's got a different instrument. However, it follows the same goals - as we have in the New Slovenia Group - on an exceptional reduction in tax liability because it excludes income from some of the weakest layers. This is a simple and appropriate instrument that they also have in Germany, which they also have in some other countries. Now I don't care if this will be included in future legislation. There's no need for the government to answer that. I'm just asking, and people are asking questions. In the German system, as we have already said, all that is less than EUR 7,200 of income is exempted from the income tax obligation. It just takes a lot of will to do that. Sir, I will now appoint Mr Grošlje, but since this law is not appropriate because I could not cover the current calendar year or the current calendar year in advance. It can also be accepted in this way. We've got our accounts in the system. After all, we have bills for all citizens. We get them in September or October. In relation to the payment, we will be paid in August or July. What the state gives us, maybe there for Christmas, if there's anything left. So, that settles it back too. It's not what Mr. Groschel says. If she is a Social Democratic Party, the United List of Social Democrats, then it would be good for you to support this law. Really! Because it's an instrument that touches the weakest layers. However, if we change that Income Act, which has been promised by the government for three years, it will say that it can be incorporated into this Decision and that this law is no longer applicable. That's what you need to know. Let the citizens know what this is all about. It's an instrument. It'd be good in this whole thing. A lot of good would be the constitutional provision on children's income. But Mr. Kelemina has focused on this part perfectly legitimately and correctly. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you very much! Excuse me, Mr. Diaci has explained very well. He did not expect controversy and discussion with the Secretary of State. But, of course, you're giving her an initiative in drafting a new law, Mr. Diaca. Is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u57	Yes, thank you for your word! I just wanted to explain, in a way, to replicate you. I asked you some questions. However, I know that Mrs State Secretary can no longer respond. At the same time, I put the thesis that, on the one hand - and I would also like to, in a way, once, sometimes the answer - the country is losing because this illogicality is a 3% relief and therefore we are also losing in value added tax. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u58	Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Since the time is right, I have applied for the floor to draw attention in this debate to the fact that has been heard recently in the National Assembly. Otherwise, I'd start like this. When we talk about tax reliefs, it is necessary to have a tax or state treasury in front of us - it is said where are the resources that fill this state treasury - and on the other hand the standard of living of citizens and citizens. You could say that we have a problem with both countries. On the one hand, at the state treasury, which is always too small and on the other hand, at the standard of living, which we can find is actually falling and that more and more modern poverty is present in this country. On this occasion, I must point out that, unlike the European Union, we have more wages than we have in the Member States of the European Union. It has been published that social contributions are on average 13.69%, while 11.4% in the European Union. We also have a tax on paid-out payroll - I don't know - at 1.7%. I don't even know if there is such a tax in the European Union. If so, it is definitely significantly less than 1.7%. Well, in the meantime, Mr. Finance Minister here has been telling us a while ago that he is aware that it is necessary to relieve wages with tax reliefs. But this is one aspect. On the other hand, the Minister of Health offers an additional 4% burden of net wages and pensions through health reform. When we put all this together, we can see why social differences are growing in this country, both within and between areas. These differences between the areas - we discussed this yesterday when we discussed the Law on Harmonized Regional Development, but it is not negligible - they are increasing. For example, the area of the north-eastern Slovenia - I don't know - reaches the salaries of the employees 75% of the Slovenian average. We're almost at a 20% unemployment rate. People in this area make very little money. Now I'd like to move on to the second thing I'd like to point out. Very little is being complemented by agricultural activity. You are now preparing a new system law on income. In fact, here we would like to introduce some radical changes specifically for agricultural activity. In addition to the cadastral income, the new law is intended to count all subsidies as new. Although we know that direct payments are something completely different. Direct payments represent the difference between production and market price. If the market price were the same as the production price, then the European Union would not introduce direct payments. However, since this is not the case because the supply on the market is extremely large and because agricultural products on the market do not reach the production price, the Member States of the European Union have introduced a system of direct payments in the common agricultural policy. This is how they make up for this difference. Our government's proposal is that this should be added up to the cadastral income in the agricultural field. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Moreover, it is assumed that even a variety of other aids, such as - for example - drought aid or other natural disasters, are included among the taxable sources. I am confident that if you introduce such a solution in the new system law, then more agricultural operators in this country will stop farming because this activity will simply not be paid for. The bill won't work out. We can already see that we have fallen in the last three years in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia - I will end immediately because I see that the Chairman is already looking at me intensely - 10,000 farms and that this trend of decline will continue. On the other hand, agricultural areas in use are growing. So the ones that the LDS colleagues would like to do in the future are more or less violent. Well! I would like to remind you that in these systemic solutions, you should carefully consider what you want to do with this. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much! As a matter of fact, Mr. Sok, I am slowly referring to your insults that you refer to me. Unfortunately, however, I am limited to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Within the time available, you must carry out your implementation. Mr Jerovšek has the word as the last speaker to be discussed. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much! Colleagues and colleagues, Madam President! Although it seems that by the opposition Members every word is already an insult, I will first, in solidarity with Mr Diacia, protest that the competent discussions on income, which has broad elements, cannot be so prevented. I ask: Are we Members of Parliament for you - I mean wider, not just for you personally - or would we like to bring to Parliament, instead of Members of Parliament, Fictional Horses for which it is a virtue not to look left or right and therefore have coats installed?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u62	Mr Jerovšek, Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure - I remind you and explain to you that this is not my discretion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u63	You don't have to, you don't have to do anything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u64	If you know, then stick to it. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. On the agenda is a proposal for a bill of MPs' proponents [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u65	However, you should not restrict Members to justify a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u66	Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u67	See, when we are talking about income relief today, it must be said that it is important to say that the opposition Members are, in fact, still literally the only ones who are trying to ensure that some of the fundamental principles of our constitution, such as solidarity, the social state, are also trying to incorporate into legislation. The debate on income facilitation at a time when Slovenia is becoming less and less solidarityable, a less and less social state, when the spread of this population is increasing - as a result of the ten-year political will, such a government that for one and the other nothing - is urgently needed at this point. This debate is actually a debate on the Slovenian Convention on the Future. This is part of the debate. To hell with it. Are not the fundamental values that must be lasting in the Slovenian space and in the Slovenian nation? Young families, the possibility of having access to apartments so that they can decide freely and carefreely for their children? It's not like we're gonna have a little baby every day. Following current guidelines, after what the current government is doing, we can predict when the end of the Slovenian people will be if we do not import people. As the opposition had to launch the Convention on the Future of Slovenia, it is obvious that it has to initiate and launch such proposals on the basis of the legislation - as I said - which is enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution that Slovenia is a social state. Unfortunately, at the moment, Slovenia is not a social state. However, the Constitution is still in force. On this basis, members of the opposition have the right to submit such legislative proposals and also to insist that solidarity and some positive values are accepted and built by the government coalition. Hearing about some laws being drawn up and in coalition coordination is already literally spiritistic. That's how long government teams with a lot of experts are needed. And you have good experts. I don't want to point at people. People are good, but don't prepare. It takes too long. Why won't you join this marriage? We'll complete through the adoption of the law and you'll lose six months again. The second year is the electoral year, or this parliamentary year is the electoral year. This simply cannot be done according to your criteria. There's an opportunity here today. To accept these fundamental values to show some political will. To stop this process, which is in Slovenia, that Slovenia is more criminal every day to many of its population and that every day it is a less social state. That every day is less solidarity. That every day there is more concern for those who have taken advantage of them through the transition and to whom the new ruling elite from day to day is letting go, because by supporting them and ignoring their tax obligations it keeps them in power. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much! I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the context of the votes, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on the 20th item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. Representatives of the government thank you very much for your cooperation. And we continue at 12 o'clock and 20 minutes, when we get to the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal of the Private Protection Act. Until then, I'm adjourning and thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u69	Members of Parliament, honourable Members! [[...]] Let's get back to work. Between us, I welcome the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to Treatment 22. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Private Protection, Third Defence The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Grega Virant, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you the draft law in the third reading. Let me remind you once again of the vital news that this law brings. First time. The regulation of private protection activities shall be aligned with the legal order of the European Union. By eliminating discrimination based on nationality and allowing natural and legal persons who have acquired the right to exercise this activity under the law of their country. I am talking about natural and legal persons from the European Union to carry out this activity also in the territory of Slovenia. Another time. Clear conditions for obtaining licences in the field of private protection are laid down. Third time. State administration. The Ministry of the Interior therefore acquires the power to decide on the allocation of licences and service cards. This is the jurisdiction that has been in the chamber so far. Thus, this essential administrative task in the field of activity is transferred from the Chamber as a branch or cecho organisation to the State Administration. This protects the public interest. Third time. Security measures are more clearly regulated to ensure legal certainty and respect for human rights and freedoms. Fourth time. There is an inspection, which has not been regulated since the current law. So the inspection will be carried out by inspectors at the Ministry of the Interior. The systems of national professional qualifications and the standardised knowledge and skills necessary to carry out this activity are regulated in the field of private protection. Since the law is in the third reading, I wouldn't go into the details again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much! I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. First of all, Mrs Majda Zupan will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We will not support the private protection bill in our parliamentary group. We do not believe that the regime is such that it is sufficiently clear to delimit the powers of private protection in relation to the tasks entrusted to the State and its authorities. Security rights and measures must be strictly and clearly established to minimise the uncertainty in law enforcement. This, in our view, does not bring the law sufficiently and not a way to fully resolve this problem. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much! The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Mag. Majda Potter. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the UK Group, we support the adoption of the Private Protection Act because we believe it is necessary to regulate the area of different interests with appropriate legislation. The adoption of the relevant legal basis was subject to changed circumstances. The police are no longer the only one who directly cares about human security and property. Economic companies and independent entrepreneurs, individuals protecting people for payment and their movable and immovable property from theft, damage, destruction and other forms of harmful activity have been involved in this activity. Since this activity under the Act on Private Protection and Compulsory Organisation is carried out by security services adopted in 1994, which did not provide for specific restrictions or conditions for carrying out this rapidly evolving economic activity, it is the task of this Act to remove the gap. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are convinced that it is not possible to oppose a specific law which sets out in more detail the conduct of private security activities. It is necessary to follow the growing interest in the additional protection and preservation of property and the safeguarding of the profits it offers. We are therefore aware that this area needs to be properly regulated and brought into line with European Union law. The basic objective is to redefine forms of private protection as the scope and modalities of the security activity have exceeded the regulation so far. The law is one of those that means aligning with the European acquis. There are also demands for greater supervision of the professional work of all those working in the field of protection. In doing so, I am referring to the establishment of an effective licensing regime for the conduct of private security activities and the establishment of a national professional qualification that will also require professional training of security guards. In particular, in order to establish appropriate inspection supervision of the legality of the work of private security companies and of the private security regulatory system. It is necessary to ask whether the law will really eliminate all the irregularities and uncertainties that can be seen in the practice so far. It is important for us to believe that the legal provisions of our citizens and citizens guarantee non-discrimination and equality in the acquisition of licences and in the conduct of private protection activities in other Member States of the European Union. The principle of proportionality shall be duly taken into account when requiring such specific conditions for the exercise of an activity. This is a permissible intervention in the constitutional principle of freedom of economic initiative, since it is a matter of protecting the public interest, this is a professional guarantee of security for third parties. At the same time, the principle of the protection of public interest, which resolves the conflict between individual and public interest, is taken into account, which means the elimination of the conflict between ensuring the security of others for payment and the objective and serious implementation of private protection activities for others. It is for this reason that we understand that, during the examination of the law, different views could be seen on the proposed legal provisions, in particular by operators or chambers. We have been particularly careful to ensure that, among other things, there would be no problems in the future with the use of security powers. This was discussed in the Ombudsman's report. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will therefore support the proposal for a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Much has been said about the reasons for the adoption of this law in previous cases. On this occasion, I would point out only one reason, in addition to the non-conformity of the law on private protection with the legal order of the European Union, that the system-wide regulation of this area has not been and is not optimally designed, particularly with regard to licensing and control, which required the drafting of a new law. In the LDS, we will support the proposal for a law because it means harmonising legislation in the field of private protection with the rules of the European Union; because the granting of licences for the exercise of private protection activities is once again transferred to the competence of the State or the Ministry, which will make it easier to ensure that this activity is carried out by legal persons who will fulfil certain conditions under the law and who will have appropriate qualified staff, and especially because this law, according to our assessment, establishes effective inspection of the legality of the work of private security companies. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have made special efforts to address the solutions included in this law, namely, that, in accordance with the constitutional principle of free economic initiative, companies may carry out other activities in addition to the tasks of private protection, provided they fulfil the conditions laid down in this law, that licences for the performance of private protection tasks are granted by the Ministry and not by the Chamber. This is an important area, as the legislator is called security services and security guards, and the legislator is empowered to intervene, not least in human rights and fundamental freedoms. That is why we have always advocated that the Ministry should take care of who could be granted this licence to perform the duties of private protection. We have also tried to - and this is included in the law - that the Chamber of Private Protection retains the exercise of public authority in the field of education, training of persons carrying out protection tasks and that the powers of those persons performing the protection tasks are very clearly defined and limited in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Since the law contains this solution and because we believe it is suitable for admission, we will also support this law in the House of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. On 28 May, the Internal Policy Committee considered the law and highlighted one of the fundamental issues concerning the sharing of various tasks and the exercise of public powers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia later identified itself in its opinion and at the time of its current consideration until this dilemma was resolved. At the National Party, however, we stress the fear that it will happen again as it did in the law that we dealt with less than an hour ago. So that we will meet again again in a short time with this law, with amendments and additions to the law on private protection, because it is precisely because of the solution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the law will be ineffective. The greatest indication of the National Party intended to propose the law is that the applicant provides some kind of authenticity or summary according to European Union rules. According to our assessment, we can't talk about any summary. Nor can we talk about the constitutionality of this law. This law, such as the practice of the Republic of Slovenia, again specifies the economic or some form of compulsory membership chambers. In the opinion of the National Party, several times already stated, we oppose any compulsory membership. According to our assessment, compulsory membership is at odds with both the freedom of the enterprise initiative and the freedom of voluntary decision, as it is a fact that compulsory membership binds a certain entity on the market to a decision. Of course, according to our assessment, this cannot possibly be the subject of matter, not of this or of any other law. Any law that contains requirements for compulsory membership in an authority will not be met with support within the National Party. The practice of the European Union in the field of such chambers is different. In those countries they have one, two, or, I apologize, two, three chambers. So the individual is left to go in which he will go, what he will do with it, and what he will accomplish through it, that is, the choice. With us, we know only one form of integration, and for this we have to pay membership fees. I think we've been experiencing or hearing a lot of criticism recently about this kind of compulsory membership, whether it's about craftsmanship or some other form of work and ideas. In the National Party, we are also convinced that if this law were to be adopted, it should be adopted without Article 8, which would mean that we are giving people who are bound by this law, i.e. through employment, in particular the possibility of a free enterprise initiative. The main indication of this and related laws defining mandatory membership in various chambers is that they should not have this in Slovenia. This is some kind of coercion, so personally and even in the National Party we estimate that such times when they were forced, the requirements for integration into another framework are, of course, over. Let us allow this activity to come to life in its own way, to decide voluntarily on possible membership, as we thus promote competition and the healthy development of such activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Here you go. You don't want to. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the 26.11.2003 amendment review. As you can see in the review of this amendment, one amendment has been tabled, namely the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group to Article 11. Article 11 and the amendment to this Article shall be put to the debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u80	I just want to hear the government's position on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Well, I was gonna drop by. The proposer shall support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u84	In the National Party, we do not support the amendment, not article 11, which also refers to compulsory membership. In addition, we would just like to say for the record that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is only a cosmetic correction, according to our assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I conclude the debate and report that the vote on the amendment and the draft law will be held today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on the 20th item of the agenda. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. I interrupt this item of the agenda and inform you that at 1300 hours we will begin the discussion of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a road transport contract law. Until then, I'm adjourning. So we continue at 1:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u86	We continue to work, moving on to treatment 23. Agenda items - Third defence of the proposal for a transport contract law in road transport I welcome the representatives of the government among us very much. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Transport, Mr. Jakob Presecnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In view of the fact that the third hearing was under way and that no third reading amendments had been tabled at that time, although some comments and some concerns had been made, I suggest that, in the context of the procedure, because we believe that the law is well prepared in the third reading, I propose that the State Assembly should also adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u89	I welcome the Minister, Madam President and several Members. I could name names. This bill, which we will conclude today, will be incorporated into a law that has not long been regularly dealt with. So it's just a fix. In New Slovenia we believe that the proposal has been quite worked out and we do not have any significant comments on the prepared material. However, we cannot say that we are fully satisfied, as is usually the case with all the suggestions, that we are not disturbed by the so-called beautiful mistakes that we really shouldn't have to make, and sometimes they are incomprehensible. This has also proved to be true now. In particular, why the SDR is not written once, what it means. How do I know there's enough of 133 SDRs for a suitcase that I'm running out of, if you say where I'm going? I'm being a little stupid, but that's right. I know I can get to that information, but why wouldn't it already be written? I'm sure such cartridges wouldn't affect the mountains of paper that are known to be too big anyway. If someone hadn't told me to get that much more paper. The opinion of the legislative and legal service is not always taken into account, but I do not know why. Fortunately, in this case they are not of a substantive nature. I think that a professional needs to take it seriously because it's wrong that politics is above the profession. At least when she needs it. Why am I saying this? Because, unlike politics, the profession should not make mistakes, even though it is wrong to be human, because we are still human. Do you agree? At least I hope so. It is not right, therefore, for politics to overwhelm the profession, because it generates even greater bureaucracy than we have. You can tell me why we didn't table an amendment. My answer is: if I knew that the government coalition would listen to me and vote on my conscience, I would gladly do so. Regardless of everything I have said as a member of the New Slovenia Party, our party does not oppose the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I welcome the Minister and my fellow Members as well. We support the law in the parliamentary group, because we find that the solutions and provisions that this law brings are much more accurate and modern than those prescribed in the law in force that was in 1973, that is, 30 years ago, the Yugoslavia Paradise. So it took us 12 years to abolish the rule that stems from the legacy or heritage of the former country. The conclusion that this marriage is better than the previous one is unequivocal. Although we can't get rid of the feeling that he went through the procedure too easily and even too critical. There is a possibility that solutions are incorporated into the law that do not provide sufficient adaptation to European standards and conventions and which also allow Slovenian motorists to be in a worse position than would have been necessary or acceptable in certain cases. Nevertheless, I expect that the situation in this area will improve considerably, especially if more seriously applied and implemented by road safety provisions. As we say, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Marlovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the law of road transport contracts. We believe that the law is European-oriented and that there will be a number of problems on the part of carriers, given the adopted law, which we hope to confirm today and in view of the statements made by some representatives of the parties that this will be resolved. In particular, we are pleased that certain improvements have been adopted and included in this law, in the light of the amendments adopted at 3, 15, 22, 23, 23, 38, 86 and 96, so that the parliamentary group will support the law, as I have already said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much. And also the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much and very much. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we supported the second-reading solutions and also expected that some of them would not be resolved or resolved until the end of the clarified matter, in particular about Article 38, perhaps further defined in the possible government amendment to this and perhaps any other article, which we have also opened in the second reading, and thus cleared up. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not tabled any amendments, nor have the Members. We are aware that this is not an entirely easy problem and that they require a precise and professional definition of marriage solutions. At the time of the reference to this Act, unfortunately, we have received some important comments from the insurance associations of the Transport Insurance Section, which point out that they did not participate in the preparation of this Act. We know that the profession has cooperated, but last but not least that part of the profession, which is integrated into the coordination of the carriers of the Republic of Slovenia in the chambers and associations, has cooperated with the Transport Ministry, as well as with the Infrastructure Committee. This part, which can therefore also refer to this law and speak of insurance, does not. Of course, it also depends on the replies of government representatives at the third reading whether we will support the law in the third reading. However, these replies must deny that the consequences of this law will have an impact on the increase in insurance premiums, as insurers point out that some have only established non-compliance with the CNR Convention to which the law refers, so I expect government representatives to know that these comments will be adequately reasoned that this does not have a negative effect on public transport operators, either passengers or passengers, and therefore that we can still adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I also conclude the debate on the draft law as a whole. Since no amendments have been tabled to the bill, it is not possible to discuss individual articles. The vote on the bill will take place today, in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 20. I'm breaking this agenda. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. We'll be in at 1:30 p.m. on the 14th agenda. I apologize, but no one has responded to the debate. The debate is closed. I don't see any problem talking about this any different. I'm sorry. At 1:30 a.m., we'll move on to the 14th item of the agenda. This is for consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the Slovenian Intelligence Security Agency, the reduced procedure. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u97	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to 14. Agenda item - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SLOVENIA INFORMATION AND SECURITY AGENCY LEGISLATION The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Iztok Podbregar, Director of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Act on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency was adopted in April 1999 and was the first law to fully regulate the situation and tasks of the civil intelligence and security agency. In addition, for the first time in law, parliamentary supervision of the work of intelligence and security services has been established. After four and a half years from the entry into force of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the law satisfies the needs of the State in the field of the application and the position of the Agency, but that it has taken place from the time of the law to today to amendments that have some impact on certain provisions of the Law on Owls. The drafter of the law prepared only those necessary amendments to the law which were necessary to comply with the system law or those amendments and additions which were necessary due to the adopted system law in order to highlight the Agency's specific position vis-à-vis other enforcement authorities. For example, we propose that the procedure for appointing the Director of the Agency should be maintained, not the procedure for selecting the Director on the basis of a public tender. Such arrangements shall also be in full compliance with the Public Servants Act, which provides, inter alia, that individual questions may be dealt with differently for officials with special powers under the law, as laid down in the Civil Servants Act, if this is necessary because of the specific nature of their duties or the exercise of specific duties and powers. This does not change the position of Director. The Director of the Agency will continue to be a public servant or official in a position with the mandate provided for in the Law on Public Servants and will have the rights, obligations and duties laid down by the Law on Public Servants, the Law on State Administration and the Law on Owl. The following amendment concerns the extension of the range of bodies notified by the Agency of its findings. The applicant notes that the Agency was limited in the transmission of its findings to the competent authorities in order to enable them to exercise their legal powers and therefore proposes an amendment to the second paragraph of Article 6 of the Law. In this regard, it is worth noting that among the recipients of the data collected by the Agency, there will also be the competent working bodies of the national assembly which need such information in their work. Moving into a new business building also meant an obligation for the Agency to organise its own security service. Previously, it examined several versions and finally concluded that its own security service was the most rational and acceptable and economically viable solution. It is already clear from the bill that its adoption will not have any additional financial implications for the State budget, as the security agency has acquired internal redeployments and some of them have been rehired in accordance with the 2002 Staff Plan. As stated, the Agency has examined several security options, including police protection or even protection through private security companies. The potential for security officers to do this for the Agency was dropped due to staffing problems in the police, for which the Agency did not choose for security and financial reasons. Although the drafter did not consider that the Agency's officials would not carry firearms in 1999 when drafting the law, the amended legislation, the most sensitive information law and the changed circumstances in the field of the Agency's work, in particular international organised crime and international terrorism, ordered the adoption of a sub-law on the acquisition, possession and carrying of arms, but not its use, which must be directly linked to the defence. At the request of the competent committee for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, the proposer shall regulate this area by law. It also regulates the area of video surveillance, which explicitly requires the Ombudsman, who in the eighth annual report adopted by the National Assembly proposes that this area be regulated by law. In the field of the protection of personal data, the applicant shall take into account the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act in the transmission of personal data abroad, and shall also introduce in Article 17 a provision clarifying concerns about the inadmissibility of restricting the right of an individual to access personal data. This is in short descriptions all that relates to changes and additions to the Owl Act. We suggest that you adopt the law in this context and thus make it possible to enforce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Commission to oversee the work of security and intelligence services as a parent labour force. I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Jožef Jerovska, to present the report of the Commission. Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear representatives of the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency. The Commission to oversee the work of the security and intelligence services in its mandate is closely monitoring the operation and has already drawn up a number of legislative proposals. She also took this change of law very seriously. She discussed this at her meeting on 23 October. In the context of the hearing, the Commission took note of the opinion of the State Council Commission on the political system, the opinion of the legislative and legal service. By the end of the deadline for the submission of amendments, the amendments had been tabled by the SDS Group of Members to Articles 1, 3 and 11 and by the Member of Mags. John Petty Officer, paragraphs 1, 5 and 15. According to the applicant, the proposed amendment is mainly necessary in order to align certain provisions of the Owl Act with the provisions of the laws adopted under the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act, after 1999. In particular, it is a matter of complying with the law on classified data, with certain provisions of the Law on Telecommunications, on public servants and on labour relations. The Agency's assurance to the Commission was that these amendments would enable the Agency to act more in a coordinated and, above all, better. The amendments also referred to circumstances such as, for example, the relocation of the Agency's headquarters to a new building and should therefore organise its own security service, which will be armed and will have all available technical means and powers laid down by law ensuring the safety of the facility and its employees in order to ensure the security of the facility. Some of the main solutions that the proposed novelty brings. Provisions for the selection procedure of the Director of the Agency. Article 1 provides that the provisions of the Public Servants Act shall not apply to this procedure. This means that the Director is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Prime Minister without a call for tender. The aim of this Act is also to supplement the Agency's objectives, which are reflected in the timely provision of information and security information collected relevant to national security. According to the representatives of the Agency, the need to extend the range of recipients of information appeared during the implementation of the law, as set out in Article 3 chosen by the Agency. In fact, the information collected is not only their own agency, but is owned by those they need for information in order to be able to take measures within the framework of their competences to ensure the economic, political and security benefits of the Republic of Slovenia. Such reasoning prevailed in the amendment of Article 6, paragraph 2, of the Law when the powers of the Data Intermediation Agency extend from the current ministers to the ministries and other authorities of the State Administration. In the third paragraph of Article 6, the Commission added its amendment to control the work of the security and intelligence services, which extended the range of users to whom the Agency must prepare information and analyses from its field of work. In addition to the needs for the National Security Council, the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the purposes of their activities. I think that this is an important supplement which obliges all Members to make use of the information which is important to the country and which is collected by law by the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. The Agency shall have its own security service, which shall protect the area, facilities and premises of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency physically and by means of technical means. The arms may also be held by officials who directly carry out the tasks of secret collection. These persons may only use weapons under conditions laid down by the criminal code relating to the use of force majeure and extreme force. Article 11 should provide that the Agency may identify a telecommunications device by means of an IMSI Charter special means in cases where an order has been issued to cover and monitor public and open premises by using technical means for documentation. This provision was opposed by the SDS Group of Members and the Government finally agreed to the proposal to delete this Article. Article 12 of the Law introduces a new possibility for individuals to initiate a procedure for ex post verification of legality on certain specific forms of data collection. This control is possible only if the individual is informed that he has been controlled. The applicant referred in this procedure to a comparable regulation of the law on criminal proceedings, which did not take into account the difference in the nature of Article 24 of the Law on Owl. The note is that the President of the Court in the proceedings in Article 14 does not have a statement and does not provide for the closure of the case in the application and cannot therefore be the competent authority for the information of the affected person. The Commission therefore adopted the proposal that the competent authority be the Director of the Agency in this case. Otherwise, the Commission followed the full opinion of the legislative and legal service. Its recommendations are taken into account from [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] tabled by the Commission as a parent working body. [[...]] In the debate, the members of the Commission highlighted the following issues. Should the Director of the Agency be selected on the basis of a public invitation to tender or appointed by the Government on a proposal from the President? It took over the last one. The Commission's position is that this service is managed by such a specific function, which is in particular with the Government, the Prime Minister and also with Parliament, and it is therefore right to maintain the process so far. In doing so, some members of the Commission have also referred to the post of Director-General of the Police as not suitable for selection on the basis of a call for proposals. The question of the need to extend the range of recipients of the information collected by the Agency, whether it is necessary to disseminate recipients of information to the ministries - so far, the recipients have been ministers - and other authorities of the state administration. Is there no fear of misuse of intelligence for political purposes? The applicant’s reply was that there could be no abuse because only the data relating to the area for which the authority was responsible would be transmitted to the authorities. Finally, the Commission adopted the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11, and amendments were adopted by the Commission, which were drafted by the Commission on their own by Articles 3, 4, 5, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 23 and the amendment for the new Article 25a. The Commission did not accept the amendment of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 3 and the amendments to Articles 1, 5 and 15 transmitted by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Nor did the Commission decide on the amendments of the government because they were irrelevant. In order to include the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Commission has set out the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. He's got the word "magic" first. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija. Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency Act are, in the opinion of New Slovenia, in place if we want to, if we want to, if we are trying to have an effective and effective security agency operating on a professional basis in Slovenia, while also fully respecting human rights law and standards. Its work is in the public interest of the State and certainly of the citizens. In this regard, there are changes that we support and some we do not support. Those we didn't discuss, we also discussed them, and unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, some of them, of course, disagreed. Appointment and selection of Director. Why suspend the law on civil servants? It is still possible for certain procedures to focus on the selection of the government. However, this basic procedure would certainly be good to be guided, as is the case with public servants. Those jokes, about showing up five or ten candidates and not being suitable for those five, are inappropriate. Why don't we open up a wider circle? Is it best, if the Prime Minister decides, to propose and act in this way? Of course, he will do so in his own interest and in the interests of the State, but he still can. Special security services. Our proposal was to use those security services that already have special powers. They're cops, so they don't have to be specifically controlled, specifically organized, specially trained, and I don't know what else. Now, for the sake of one agency, we will train a special service for one house, give them special powers, and I don't know what else. This is not appropriate in our thinking, it is not rational, even from the point of view of organisation. I wonder why the government doesn't support it. We also gave or set up security guards for a person who was not legally convicted. Here, at least, the government has taken this proposal into account in part, by showing at least part of the satisfaction of our efforts to improve legal matter. In Nova Slovenije, however, we are concerned about the efficiency and effectiveness of this agency, especially in recent incidents or unresolved issues with our neighbours, not only with one neighbor, but also with others. Of course the owl works in the outer space, not in the inner space. Its goal is not our citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, but must protect Slovenian interests, including economic interests. Therefore, for the last time, I have asked 15 important questions and difficulties on the petition committee, which we want to get answers for the protection of Slovenian interests. They apply to borders, the silent formation of regions, the weakening of economic positions, the invasion of our space of foreign interests. There's a lot of things that Owl has to do. It is therefore necessary to have the appropriate authority to comply with the prescribed laws and to be technically and professionally well qualified. In this sense, of course, we support the law. However, since these key comments have not been taken into account, it is anticipated that our Group of Members will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party will not oppose the law. Given that Owl’s central intelligence agency, which can be of great benefit to the state, including Members and other national authorities, at the time of legal and professional work, we are aware that it is also necessary to amend and upgrade marriage solutions, because Parliament’s work in legislation has been very intensive in recent times and we believe that some provisions in law eventually become an obstacle to quality work. These changes to the law, which are now on the wallpaper, are minor changes, and these changes have also been referred by our party to some proposals. Thus, our party, in order to speak to the government majority or the government elite about how it systematically developed the system of appointment of important officials, has tabled an amendment which would allow for a wider choice to be proposed for the Director of the Security Agency to be proposed by means of a law setting out how this is done with public administration workers. Of course, we also had certain concerns, but we wanted to point out the non-systematicity of government solutions when, in the case of the Police Director, he advocates such a solution. At the same time, in our Group of Members, we are aware that there are many things happening in the world, such as terrorism, Islamic terrorism, anything else that can pose a significant threat to the security of Slovenia. We are therefore aware that some changes are necessary and at the same time Slovenia is included in international institutions, in international relations such as the European Union and NATO. At the same time, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that although the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency Act should be corrected in some respects, the current procedure, which provided for a shorter procedure, did not allow. So it was only after the law was already in the procedure, when it went through the commission, that we saw this month in the magazine Ali, in an interview with the director of the archives of the Republic of Slovenia, statements that we believe are merely argumentative because the director, Mr Žumer, states that in some cases strange things happen by removing the material. He himself wondered who had made the selection in 2003 of what would be excluded from Mr Levstik's file, for example. And he also says, "I have to say that we have solid evidence that the material issued to the customers after 1992 is still being cleaned." In our client, we believe that with these things, which are both strange and unacceptable, this will also have to be dealt with by the intelligence and security management commission. Therefore, the law will also need to be supplemented in some other articles that are defined until the delivery of the material. We must also point out that positive efforts have been made to fully address the dark past of human rights violations, and some authorities in Slovenia are seeking to prosecute people who point out that these services have been abandoned or abandoned by old methods of human rights violations. As it is known, Dr. Janez Markež was accused by the Cultural Heritage Inspector because he exposed the serious human rights violations that occurred to him when he was a minor, as a student. As I say, these solutions, which are now in this law, have also been succeeded by a decision in Article 11, where we have warned that the proposed solution proposed by the service would be illegal or not in accordance with the Constitution. Because of this, as I say, we will not oppose the law, but once again I say that the law in the near future will also have to be upgraded in order to avoid anomalies that are obviously still happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic on behalf of the United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u106	President! Honourable Director of the Owl with a co-worker! Colleagues and colleagues! Any step or action that brings us closer to the coordinated and, above all, to the better functioning of the Owl, is acceptable and will be supported by us in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats. The solutions proposed by the law or the amendment of the law are acceptable to us. The selection of the Director on the basis of a call for proposals would, of course, allow individuals who are excluded or not detected by the current amendment proposal to be included in the electoral round. However, we believe that the management of this service is so specific and challenging that it requires special abilities and also an appropriate selection process. We do not object to the proposal that the Prime Minister chooses and the government appoints a leader or leader in Owl. However, with regard to the series of recipients of information and analyses that are being prepared and transmitted in Owl, it is our assessment that caution is needed and not too wide a circle. At the same time, it is important that the recipient circle is wide enough for the analysis and information to be received by those who also need it for their quality of operation. It is important to select data, not everything, but only what is necessary and what is necessary. And this, as the proponents say, is defined by this law. This law also regulates the carrying of firearms within the Agency for the purposes of security guards, which is also considered essential in the law. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group to delete Article 5 has been tabled in the supplementary proposal. They suggest that the protection for the sake of the Owl is carried out in the future by police officers, as it has been so far. It is not to be forgotten that until recently, employees or at least some of the employees of the police and employees of Sovoi lived at the same location and that the way of police protection was logical. Now the premises are separate and, in view of the content of the operation and at the same time, preventing intertwining activities, the proposal for a solution, which is in the basic text, makes sense and acceptable to us. Therefore, we will not support the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler is gone. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Dorian Marshič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear representatives of the Slovenian Intelligence Security Agency! Before us is the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Intelligence Security Agency, which complements the Act adopted in 1999. The law of this year introduced basic principles such as the principle of the protection of parliamentary democracy of the interests of the State, the principle of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the principle of the separation of intelligence and security from police activities and the principle of urgency and proportionality in the secret acquisition of data. The proposal for a law, which we are considering today following a reduced procedure, remains faithful to these fundamental principles. Since certain provisions of the 1999 Act have proved to be flawed and even inadequate to the requirements of the current time for the operation of the Agency, the amendment is necessary. The main objective of the changes introduced by the law is: to ensure national security and to support the country's top representatives in the management of foreign security policy, to provide timely information and security information to our highest national decision-making authorities on matters relevant to the national security of the Republic of Slovenia, and to promote the political, economic and security interests of the State in the international environment and to successfully integrate into the global integration processes. On 23 October 2003, the Commission addressed the draft law and drafted and adopted its amendments, which the LDS Group considers to have improved the text of the proposal. With regard to the question of whether the Director of the Agency should be assembled on the basis of a public invitation or appointed by the Government on the proposal of its President, the LDS Group agrees with the proposal that the President of the Agency cannot be equal to the heads of other government services in terms of appointment and position, as we consider this to be a specific function, which is in particular with the Government, the Prime Minister and also with Parliament. The Commission's addition to Article 11 of the draft law, which provides that the way in which the Agency's security measures are implemented is determined by the government on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, means that our Group is implementing the principle of constitutionality and legality, and that is why we supported it. Our support has also been given to the Commission's amendment to Article 3 which extends the range of recipients of information, so that the Agency prepares information and analysis for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in order to carry out its tasks in their field of work. An important novelty of the bill is also the provisions on the management of a database of personal data, on the entry of persons into the Agency's facilities and in the area of the facilities, and provisions in which, and under which conditions, the competent court may also allow the supervision of telecommunications in the Republic of Slovenia through the issuance of telecommunications. Since we see the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency in the parliamentary group as an upgrade to the 1999 law, we will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act certainly needed amendments and additions. And these are right in front of us. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree with these additions and amendments, although we feel that several articles may need to be rectified within a certain period of time. Because the matter is being upgraded, especially by entering the European Union and NATO, and so some things that we have not yet known or at least some have not understood will come to the fore. One of the most important innovations is certainly the appointment of a director, not by a call for proposals, but by the decision of the Prime Minister. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that this is the right decision, because the head of such an important service must be someone whom the Prime Minister absolutely trusts and believes. This means that the Prime Minister also has the possibility of simply calling off the Director who does not fulfil his tasks in the same way as appointing him. However, we have some comments or concerns about certain articles that we believe should be declared more effectively. For example, in Article 11a, where it is said that a security guard may require a person who endangers human security, property or order in a protected area to immediately cease or leave the protected area. In our client's case, that's not enough. A security officer within the premises and facilities of the Intelligence and Security Service is not enough to simply request such a person to remove or arrest. It goes on to say, "detain a person who has been caught in a crime whose perpetrator is prosecuted under official duty or at the request of the injured person until the arrival of the police." Every person needs to be kept, for the persons, just like that, have nothing to do with the premises of the intelligence service or their facilities. It cannot now be left to the security guard to determine under which article an act may be punishable. As for the protection of the objects themselves and of the Owl in general, we are convinced in the Slovenian National Party that this must be in the hands of the Owl itself. The police cannot protect the intelligence service, as this would extend the circle of certain conduct to unauthorized persons. It may also make sense here to consider that the National Assembly should also have its own security service in the National Assembly, but not that the police are doing this to us, which we have also found several times that it has acted on behalf of the Minister of Home Affairs, not at the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 15, where it is stated in paragraph 2, that, in respect of a working relationship that a person may have concluded, if he has not been convicted of an alleged offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under an official obligation, or has not been sentenced to a non-conditional sentence for more than three months. Intelligence is a very specific task, and on many occasions informants are themselves at the edge of the law, at least if they are good. If they're very good, they don't get caught, sometimes because of some mistake, they get an informant, and it happens to land in prison. This decision not to have such ones in the ministry is very questionable, for at times such people are very useful, and above all they are more beneficial than those righteous ones and Purgatory who do not hope for anything. The problem is that such people who do not hope for anything are usually in better positions in these services, but from them the service as such, the government of the state and the state has nothing. And under the third point, that he is exclusively a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia with a permanent residence in Slovenia, it seems to us little, I would say, inappropriate, because in this case, everyone who has been deleted can also get a job in Slovenia, but no one will check if the native country has been processed, because by a decision that will make him a citizen of Slovenia, he will have confirmed that he has been in the Republic of Slovenia since 1992 to give him the legitimacy and coverage of all possible crimes committed in his second, home country. In principle, we support and support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 26.11.2003. This is an amendment to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I think it is necessary to say again or to make it clear why this amendment makes sense. Why introduce a special service for the protection of the Owl when, however, we are available in this country to people who have these special powers, who have the power to use specific methods, and are qualified to do so. That's why, of course, they're answering. Is it now a proposal for a solution offered by the government to define what these powers are by means of a sub-legislative act? This isn't the right way. Whenever specific methods are repealed, these special methods must be defined in the law, and also those powers, if given to anyone, must be in law. This is not the subject of a decision by the Minister or by law. Of course, you can do so by writing in the law that the government will then do something with its definitions "up and down". In this way it is not possible to perform such important demanding functions and, on the other hand, to perform responsibilities. That's the limit, the interference with human rights. All those human rights issues need to be defined very carefully. Security. Now we also have in some media how information is leaking. As information leaks from the intelligence services, still confidential documents, documents from the files of the conviction. This country hasn't arranged it yet. Clearly, this is also due to inappropriate service, inappropriate conduct, inappropriate qualifications. Unsuitable standards. We're gonna have to talk about this. In this regard, all these arguments, we are still arguing and advocating that this Article 5 should be deleted, and that it is better to have the job that we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Marsič and Mr Jerovšek also applied for the debate. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Personally, as well as in the party, in the parliamentary group, we will oppose this supplement given by colleagues from Nova Slovenije. The fact is that this agency has a new practice today. Previously, it has been practically in the same premises with the internal affairs authorities, and although I am not a member of this committee for the supervision of security and intelligence services, I know that this practice has not always proved to be the best. The Owl has new premises today, has moved to a new building and the need to protect this facility is certainly necessary. Of course, different forms are possible. The director of the agency mentioned this earlier. We could, of course, protect this with a private agency, we could do this as before with the internal affairs authorities, meaning with members of the Slovenian police, but my personal view is that, in accordance with the practice they have elsewhere, the case of Germany, the case of Italy, and what else could be counted here, and in explanation, there are, I think, detailed practices that these countries and their security and intelligence services have regarding the protection of their own facilities or their own organisation, that it was necessary for the Agency to have its own, independent and under its own supervision, security service. It is simply that this agency is one of the most important institutions in the field of security in Slovenia, an agency that actually provides and enables work for all other authorities in Slovenia. How important this agency is in obtaining this data and, above all, how sensitive it is to avoid data leaks from its own organisation, we have heard what Mr Jerovšek and Mr Jelinčič have also mentioned and someone else in this room. It is precisely because of this independence that it is essential to be independent or independent of any other institution in this activity. Personally, I think it is good that the Agency has its own security service, which will itself train it to have the details and principles of the same service written in very detail and very restrictively in the amendment to this law. I personally will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I must say that I myself, until I have read this Ali, have also been in the position that it is necessary and important or that the Owls can be allowed to be independent, as my colleague Marsich said, and I say more autocratic, that absolutely alone cares for all my needs. However, I must say that I am using this broader spoilt, that these statements are in line with what we call the working method of the Commission, which I am chairing, that this working method is a systematic question of the legality of work, but that it would be useful and appropriate to have some potential control of services between us. It's called police and intelligence. I'll read what I said today. After all, I take this newspaper into my hands regularly, but this time I haven't. Here Dr. Vladimir Žumer, director of the archives of the Republic of Slovenia, said, as I previously quoted earlier: "I must say that we have solid evidence that the material that is provided to the parties is still being cleaned after 1992. Then, on the one hand, the files and documents that Owl was supposed to continue to use were removed. [[it's probably allowed.]] , on the other hand, they were cleaning according to some criteria that we had no influence on. Then they gave us the rest. We have solid evidence, like I said, that they were excommunicating and that the clients were hiding it. People got a look at their files. Some of the documents were often hidden from the customers. When they exercised their legal interest in, say, repairing postwar injustices or in the victims of war violence, or in cases of denationalisation, or in the case of citizenship, they did not come up with all the documents. This could have been irreparable damage for them." And then, "It's illegal, of course. This practice should not continue after 1998 or at least after 1991, but it continues and goes into such a sense." Look, I don't think there's a significant impact on who's inside the fence doing the job, but it has a psychological effect. If all of this is true, it is necessary to destroy these documents in some way, to take them away. These could be huge amounts of these documents, and it doesn't matter who comes in with some tasks and who comes out. That is why I will personally support this amendment, because I believe that it is a minor evil if what we have said in the past is happening repeatedly, that there is some control, that there is mutual control of these services, that it is a minor evil, and that some service is getting out of control. The data leak from such services is inadmissible. At the same time, there must be no way to exclude things which, after the expiry of legal time limits or legal decisions, as well as in this amendment of the law, must be made known to the party subject to supervision. If this has occurred in any way or is happening, the Commission will have to make this very patient and very precise. At the same time, once again, I believe that if services are controlled in such a physical way, such violations are less likely. That is why I am in this position right now, and I believe that the intention of this amendment is useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u118	Look, I think Mr Jerovska's purpose is good, but the approach is wrong. Just what Mr Jerovšek says should be avoided. This is where my debate went. What Mr Jerovšek says is practically as if the police should be the body that controls the security and intelligence services. I think it's wrong. We have other authorities to control security intelligence. In the first instance, this government and, in the second instance, the most important body, which I consider and run by my colleague Jerovšek, is the parliamentary commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services. As for internal control prior to the flow of information, possible leaking of information, this is something that we should probably come up with and think about. Whether it is a counter-intelligence service, setting up a new body, a counter-intelligence service, or whether it is an internal control system that they have in Owl. At this point, I'd say the following. The rationale behind the amendment itself is to avoid the financial consequences and additional burdens of the budget in this way. The explanation says, and the director of Sowe also said that it was not a matter of additional financial implications. It is simply an internal redistribution of personnel, it is a physical protection and protection of the facility, which means that they will certainly find from their own staff the people who will perform this function.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In principle, I also agree with Mr Marshich. However, I think he misinterpreted me in interpreting my point of view. It's actually physical control. I'm aware, it's not job control, it can't be, and it can't be. However, I am also deeply aware of the psychological impact of possible controls through my role as Chairman of the parliamentary oversight body. We have been very reminded of this when the Commission visited Germany that, for example, in the instruments of the parliamentary supervisory commission, some instruments have been used but have an extraordinary psychological effect. I also believe that the presence in the yard of another body would reduce itching of the fingers, in order to behave physically, with cars and when someone has a view to check whether such a thing is being carried away, that is to say, at another location or that such things are being passed on to that location, that this matter has a psychological effect. Otherwise, we have a director here to explain to us, in accordance with my urgent questions, which could happen and which could not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u121	Any other Members want a word? Then we would ask the Director to answer his questions, to give his opinion on these matters. Please, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! As I have already presented in the introduction, the Agency has indeed examined the various security options and solutions for the organisation of its own security service. This organisation of its own security service seems a perfectly rational solution to us. This is also rational in terms of training. In the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, we see training as a permanent process to be carried out, regardless of how the security is organised. With regard to the financial implications, I think that I have already explained enough in the introduction that we have found internal solutions and that we have already carried out some new jobs in 2002, in line with that human resources plan. It would be very difficult to comment on the statements written in certain media by Mr Jerovšek. However, I would like to point out that the Law on Owl of 1999 in Article 18 specifically stipulates that the closed matter in the application shall be transferred to the Agency's documentary material collection. After the deadline set by the Director of the Agency and the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, and this period shall not exceed one year, this documentary material shall be stored and handed over to the archives of Slovenia. In 1999, the Act specified in its transitional provisions in Article 55 that the material from the archive of the former State Security Service should be delivered to the archives of Slovenia no later than one year after the application of this Act. I would remind you, Mr Jerovšek, that at the meeting of the Commission we have reported in detail that in 2000 documentary material was actually arranged and fully dedicated to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, I would point out that it would be very difficult for me to comment on this article because I do not know it. With regard to supervision, I would not specifically say that I personally believe that control is quality regulated, especially in accordance with the law on parliamentary supervision, where the parliamentary commission exercises this control. I'd like to say a few words about internal control. I am responsible for internal control as Director of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency or now as Acting Officer. In fact, in addition to the mechanisms established by the regular organisational structure, I also have a directly subordinated inspector who supports and proposes internal control and an internal auditor who controls the financial aspect of the Agency's operations. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I would like to warn you that we are talking about Article 5. I did not want to interrupt Mr Jerovsk's debate earlier, where she was moving from Article 5 to the width. Now, I will not allow a debate on other things like Article 5. So, please, the topic is Article 5, that's in the debate, everything else is not. Please, who wants another word for Article 5. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u124	I, Mr President, am aware of these dilemmas, but I have focused my entire debate on whether, by means of the solution envisaged by the amendment, we can prevent any anomaly, abuse. I mentioned a systematic doubt about the legality of the operation. And in this context, because Mr. Director - I must say that we have reached a high level of confidence on the Commission with the Agency, and I do not want to criticize at all. However, I must say that it is actually bad for me, that I have been warned, but that I have not yet taken into the hands of an article that also relates to the work of the parliamentary commission and touches it.It is even worse that your colleagues, which you have more, have not been briefed on any matter which is inherently relevant to the functioning of your service. Even so, I was warned in time, and I warned. Because of this, because I say, I understand that you cannot comment on today, but the moments that make a person feel better encourage a different reaction than I did when we discussed the present law, changes to the present law. I don't think it's wrong to touch all the relevant things when we change the law. However, I understand the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which, on the one hand, restricts us and, on the other hand, in such matters, we absolutely have to argue on all sides the amendment which has been tabled, because it certainly concerns the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. And Mr. Moge and Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u126	In view of the debate by the President of the Commission, who was the rapporteur and in which the opposition has a majority, I would ask if I could get to the bottom of this article, which he is talking about all the time. But if the professional services could reproduce it, we'd even know what we're talking about. As with the Director, I am not familiar with this article and I am having a very difficult time following this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u127	What can I tell you now, read "But" or how? [[Laugh.]] I don't do commercials, please. This is outside the debate on Article 5. I must remind you that this has not been quite right now. Make a deal. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u128	I must say that it surprises me, given that my colleague Mohe has already mentioned that the majority of the opposition's security and intelligence services are under the leadership of Mr Jerovšek, and I do not understand this manoeuvre, because I have actually understood here in the commission's report that they have actually adopted such a basic law with all the additions, but they have not adopted this amendment. So, Comrade Jerovšek, I really don't understand you - on the committee one and on the plenary the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u129	Will that be a replica now, Mr Jerovšek? Explanation. Then he's got the word, Mr. Petty Officer, because he called earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In Article 5, we are talking about the service as to how it should be organised - whether it is appropriate for the police to carry out this work or whether it is their own service, as you say, Mr Marsič. You mentioned earlier that the agency can conclude a contract, or, this protection, with a private service. Now that you mention it, people can think about whether that means you don't trust our police and give it to a private agency. Someone may even think otherwise that there's a private interest here, but I don't want to say that you had anything to do with it, but you can think about it that way. I trust the police, has special powers, because the security service, Mr. Moge, is a security service without powers, it's a toothless lion, then it's a regular guard service and that guard, if anything happens, what he can do if he doesn't have those powers. He's just calling in another job. That's all. There's nothing else he can do. And the police have a chance because they have special powers, they are trained. And why not especially for yourself. I'm not gonna say I can't talk about how strong our agency is. But given that it's a smaller country, it probably has fewer units, outposts or whatever. I don't know how many he has. I'm not gonna explain it because I can't. Accordingly, we also need to adjust our security service or cooperation. That's why we made this proposal. Not to have bad security, but good security. Okay, maybe it won't happen tragically if you vote it out. But in the long run, I don't know, it's reasonable thinking. I wouldn't want to spread that mistrust about the police. I think it's the police who can do it best. It doesn't have to be uniformed, it can be by all those rules, as it were, that it's less visible. I think that Mr Vice-President would also support me in this because he has had some experience with the agency and with these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u131	If I were to discuss it, I don't know if it was your opinion. But Mr. Marshich has the word, he has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It'll be a classic replica because my colleague misunderstood me and misinterpreted me. I didn't say I wanted to see this function performed by private services. I said that the practice was with the police, and I didn't even speak of distrust over the authorities of the police, but I said that I thought it was the best solution for the Owl Security Intelligence Service to have its own organisation. It means own protection, just as it is presented here in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u133	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u134	I'd like to make it clear that this is not about any contradiction in my operation, the performance. I presented the Commission's report, which is just like the majority vote. Now I cannot say, I certainly did not object to Mr Drobnik's proposal on the Commission either. I think I voted in, back then. However, the impulses and moments that I have mentioned today have convinced me that, at the moment, I do not think it is wise, that such an agency is also completely autocratic, because of the reasons and these high criteria for the protection of human rights. This is so much higher a goal that we need to look into it, if we see anything that could be wrong, then it has to cheer us up. Me, I have to say, this article has given me a heart attack. They are still certain, and I also mentioned earlier, which is not the fault of the agency, but in our society we have obviously not yet eliminated all the relapses from the past. This isn't a bad job, but obviously we didn't cancel them. Also, instead of supporting a positive action, such as clearing up a case by Dr. Janez Markes, we witnessed intimidation in our society. I think that in this case, when it comes to such important issues, an eclectic violation of human rights in the past, on the skin, on the back of a minor, we must not allow ourselves to do everything in order to prevent this from happening again in our society or in our country. Or even more so, that such individuals who use these methods of intimidation should feel that they are legal states, not that those who seek the rule of law to shake up these relapses in the past are intimidated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u135	Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u136	I think those arguments are broken, twisted. Look, it's an intelligence service, on the one hand, and a security service, which is legally separated and also in different buildings. It is impossible to protect data leaks by hiring people from, under the terms, "competitive services" because they will record anyone who has entered this facility because they will have control over the entire video system of protecting this facility and will be employed somewhere else and will answer somewhere completely different than this service that collects and values data. Therefore, I find this marriage solution, that they also have their own security service within them, completely logical and also quality. It seems to me that we should get the bear to do the service in order to do the service of quality. It is true, however, that during this period everything has started and it is likely to be increasingly difficult to exercise thorough control over the work of this service, both outside, such as the parliamentary commission, within the government, and within the service itself. That is why I, as my colleague Marsic said, will also oppose the adoption of this amendment, as this amendment has not received support on the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Lenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I would like to continue Mr Mojet's debate, which mentioned these two services, that this does not belong together, and I am afraid that this amendment would be adopted so that we can repeat Depala you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u139	In the future, please, gentlemen of DeSUS, report your time for discussion. I didn't get to see you so quickly that you didn't sign up for the debate. But we are a democratic country, please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I would only do so much for the implementation of Mr Lenk, if we were to implement the principles of the rule of law and legality in this country, then I am absolutely not afraid that Depal will repeat himself. Because DePala is not supposed to happen in this country. It should not have happened at the time that a criminal service forged documents that a criminal intelligence officer then carried on a plate of military intelligence. This just shouldn't have happened. If you now assume, because in a border area, these two services would meet up so that anomalies could occur immediately, then we are on a bad path. However, we in this house must believe and demand that every service respects the law in this country and does not act unlawfully. Because of this, I, Mr Lenko, really think that you, too, hope and believe in the rule of law in this country, that the Depal villages will no longer repeat themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you. Article 5(5) Any other discussion with regard to Article 5? Did you say replica? Contract, correction, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u142	Comrade Jerovšek, as we spoke earlier, you were convicted, not by the criminal service of the Ministry of the Interior, but by the Ministry of Defence, which they then gave through Smolnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u143	Is this about Article 5, Mr. Mogue? This was not in the context of the debate on Article 5. I no longer allow this debate. Please, it's over. Then we're good till tonight. Anything else about Article 5? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the sitting today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 20. I hereby end this agenda item and also thank the representatives of the Owl for their presence and cooperation. Thank you. Continue at 3.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u144	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - DETAILED PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF THE STATE FINANCIAL AND REAL BUILDINGS FOR 2003 AND 2004. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to give the word to the government's representative for further explanation of the motion for a decree, but so far none of the government's representatives are visible. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Mr Pucko should present the Committee's report and Mr Puck is not in the Chamber either. So I don't know what to say. We will discuss without these introductory words. We are moving on to the debate or views of the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a decree. First on behalf of New Slovenia, who wants a word? Dr. Andrey Bayuk should be here. And you, Dr. Bernik, will you do it on behalf of the delegation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u145	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! Today we're going to deal with our old friend, this is the state property the government wants to sell out. As a good owner, each company sold should state the basic facts, the basic information on the company being sold, but this is not in this presentation. We would be particularly interested in the sales plan, to whom and why, and on what basis, the price, which company managed and so on, was determined. As a good owner, the country should already have all of this and provide it to us. So we have to guess about many things. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Finance. In doing so, he rejected the amendment of Dr. Bajuk and our parties to delete Article 1 of the decree, it is said to prevent the sale of all three companies - Drava power plants, construction materials, and EPPS, E-mail Slovenia. Why was this amendment tabled? Simply because of the fact that Drava power plants are concerned, the Commission of Inquiry is still investigating the purchase and sale of electricity in order to determine the liability of persons and public authorities, as economic damage was allegedly caused by the system of Slovenian electricity. Our position was and is, until all the circumstances are established, the sale of the Drava power plants Maribor d.o.o. Unresponsible act of the Slovenian Government. EPPS company, E-mail Post Slovenia d.d.o. has the book value of the capital investment on 31.12.2001 442 million Slovenian tolars, and the government would like to pay only 144 million for 49% of the sales, which is only about one third. That's why this sale doesn't make sense to us. She's nowhere to be found, and it's understandable that we're not going to support her. Then the report on the revision of the closure programme of the lead and zinc mine, Mežica in closing d.d.o., shows that RSCM, Construction Materials, d.o.o. between 1996 and 1999, with the aim of introducing a new Suha Malta programme and hiring workers of leaded and zinc ore in Mežica, adopted funds totalling 272 million Slovenian tolars. Only 18 over-employments were carried out, which is too little in terms of the amount of resources spent and the over-expenditure of over-employment resources for workers under other programmes. The funds have been inefficiently spent and too few workers have been involved in the redundancies. As long as the circumstances for doing so are not clarified and are not responsible for these acts, it is irresponsible of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resell this company. Interestingly, in all the companies that the government has capitalised and recapitalised over the years and so on, we should know how much state money has gone on at this time, why, and so we might be able to learn how the government has dealt with these companies. Although we all know that the government is a bad master, we cannot fully prove this in some sales because we do not get the most basic facts. Then the story of the Slovenian Investment Bank and the Slovenian Ironworks continues. In both cases there has been damage to social property and, of course, to the enrichment of selected individuals and societies, since in both cases there are the same persons and the same connections, and in both cases a ruling policy with the government is involved. Some media have already reported this widely, but the government has not responded. I hope today we find out why it went and where the whole thing is. In the case of the Slovenian Ironworks, the government sold 80% of the Slovenian technology to Viator and Vector, for 460 million tolars. In a few weeks, however, the investment will be reimbursed four times, so that Viator and Vector only produced an added value of around 420 million dollars in sales. On the basis of these facts, one should say that if these facts are true, this is a typical and classic case of corruption and I do not know what anything, maybe conflicts, interests and so on. Doesn't look like anybody in government circles cares. Why does the state, instead of earning its own money and thus at least cover a huge financial hole, prefer to donate a million to private society? On this issue, we are still waiting for clarification. The government has been in control of immense assets in its power all the time, but it says that it does not even have the inventory of this property. How is this possible, or is it even intentional that the government can carry out financial frauds without supervision. For all funds, a delegation of the International Monetary Fund complained a year ago that it could not obtain data on all these funds. She asked what the government intended to do with them. They promised us an answer, but on the next mission, they refused to answer that question. In fact, we see from these introductory data that the government has a huge amount of property, and that this property, if properly carried out, and if properly sold and properly sold, would be able to pay off the huge debts that the government or our country has. We hope that, if not the other, this discussion will result in the ability to obtain better data, more information, or all the essential information needed for such a business transaction, in every business transaction. But if the government doesn't want to act like a good master, then we know that something is very wrong somewhere, and that it's not attributable to ignorance or anything, but to a whole series of machinations behind many of these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're not going to hear the views of the Young Party, apparently. Mr. Valentin Pohorec, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Our Group will support the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the sales programme of state-owned real estate for 2003 and 2004, as this is only a supplement. These are the three things that are published in this material that we have at our disposal, so the building materials d.o.o., which are within the lead mine and the zinc of Mezica in closing, and this situation needs to be resolved until its final solution. It's a partial sale. Only 49% share, E-mail in Post Slovenia, whose share is 174 million and 49%, and the country retains its majority share. Furthermore, what is heard in large, Drava power plants, Maribor d.o.o., but this share is only 0.14 percent and its value is around 160 million. That's how he doesn't want a big sale of state property. It is, in my opinion, a gradual settlement of this issue, a resolution of this issue. I am also of the opinion that the country is not a good owner, that in some cases it even holds in its own, especially in these two SOD funds and KAD companies, which are held back in some way or in some status, when they can't go further, not back and I can do them a great deal of damage in the long term. When they get to the edge of that border, when there's no more one tolar of profits, then they'll be looking for a chance to resell as soon as possible. But this is not a matter of this decree, but I have also mentioned that it is not a sale, sometimes it is even an obstacle to some species or some companies in a freer world, such as, in another ownership system, it takes a more successful path forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much. He will present the position of the United List, Mr Leopold Grošelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As early as this year, in July, when we also discussed the proposal for the surrender of part of state property in the National Assembly, the question of this, not so much in terms of value, but more about the way, was also raised. When a part of the property is sold and they are also employed, because it is still an active company and people are employed, the question was, of course, whether the country behaves as a good host here or whether it works in the sense that it is part of some state property, regardless of the consequences, that it is very quick to deny it. I'm going to point out here one problem that has also come up this year. This was, for example, I would say 10 subsidiaries that were at the mine in closing, this is the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and at the board meeting I found that only 4 companies were selling, but of course there was no clear message or explanation of how it behaved also to the other 6 subsidiaries, whether the process would continue or whether it would go through the slightest resistance, as it is called, to make sure that there were no more economic grounds for continuing this activity and, after a short process, it could be done that the bankruptcy process and people were also on the road. At that time, it was promised that it would be best, within the meaning of this first paragraph and until the fourth paragraph of Article 80 of the Public Finance Act, to change this in order to have a special law drawn up and that the State should also identify which part of the State's assets and, of course, for a longer period of time, that it is ready for sale and that all the merits of such or other sales can then be determined. Unfortunately, this marriage did not happen. We have come to this dilemma again, whether it is in a decree in which individual investment projects are already in place and in that part are not completed and then transferred to the following year, whether it should always be approached in the form of changes and additions. The Committee then took the view that such procedures should be followed. We then accepted this explanation. As far as the UK Group is concerned, it would be good and appropriate for us to come to an appropriate law and then, for the first time, to identify all the assets that are for sale and to pursue all interests at the same time, not only national, but also in terms of a broader economic and social dimension. The proposed amendments will be supported by the United Nations Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the sales programme for State and real property for 2003 and 2004 should be said as follows. On 12.11.2003, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy met. We got a lot of information on it. Not all of them, of course, are important as follows: that our national assets, after a consolidated balance sheet, are somewhere worth $5,500 billion and $486 billion, as much as is worth this asset that we are selling off after this decree, and slightly less than 10% of the value. Of course, we can talk about the problems of sales in each company individually, but we will end up saying: as many state assets as possible, the more the country has, the more on the left-hand side. However, we demand and want to see as much state property sold as possible. Care should be taken to ensure that the sale is properly assessed and carried out. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the sale of these capital shares in all three companies, EPPS, Drava Power Plants and the Mežica Mine. Let the new owners show that they can work. Whenever we speak, we say that the country is a bad host and a bad owner, and let them show that they can do better. Perhaps later we will ask ourselves whether the previous masters were right or wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The position of the Liberal Democracy. Will any of you introduce yourself? [[No, no, ……]] The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u153	Your Honors are here! One of the speakers in front of me said "holds a good master" - a country as a good host in terms of making a profit, i.e. in those companies where the country still has a certain ownership, whether it is owned by a hundred percent or slightly smaller property. I think we must say from this place that the country as a good host can be expressed through a double perspective. As a good host, according to my assessment, the Slovenian National Party must first and foremost know that it is not a capital owner or that it must not comply with the company law. The country with its assets, which it has in various companies, companies, its sole objective must not be to create profits. In addition to such a goal, which is of course secondary, the country has a primary objective. This is a guarantee of public interest. That is why countries all over the world have certain ownership in certain companies that do not generate profits, but their primary task is to ensure a certain public interest. When it comes to those activities which may not take place on the market market. And to say that sales are justified whenever a state-owned company does not generate profits, it is confused by the logic of state institutions. I think we should be, before we take such an act, in principle, clear that my words are true. However, to keep my words, our current situation in the framework of the National Assembly also confirms. It is from this title that the State must take care of certain public interest primarily in favour of different funds, different forms of State aid. If we behave exclusively through profit, it would mean that this country should not be helped by means of monetary instruments, not by fiscal instruments, but by certain companies. This way, we all know that we are setting up individual funds, that they should be geographically rounded wholes, that they should be based on units of work or anything else. On the other hand, we need to know that in this National Assembly, through various financial instruments, we have already used many times a financial instrument, that it should be in the form of an exemption or payment burden, that we have repeatedly used different monetary instruments, such as free funds, funds paid later or under more favourable criteria. I think that our activity so far, i.e. this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has led in the same direction that we must separate what is of interest and what is the objective of a good master. Where this master is in the role of the State, the State must take care of certain public interests. This can be shown in municipal equipment, utilities, or employment rates. I cannot therefore agree with those Members in the opening phase, i.e. the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, or with those presentations of the groups of Members based solely on the creation of profits. It's just, I'm sorry, a flawed logic. As long as we have two laws in this country, a law on companies, i.e. the entities to which the content brings the creation of profits, and as long as we have a law on public companies in this country whose primary objective is to ensure public interest, such a motto cannot be the only source and the criteria of sale. However, allow me to touch first on the issue raised by the Legal and Legislative Affairs Service. At this point in time, we have in the National Assembly a decree on the sale of state property for 2004 and 2005. It makes sense to ask the original question whether amendments to the 2003 and 2004 resolutions should be adopted today, if we also have a proposal in the procedure for 2004 and 2005. I don't think so. On this issue or the opinion of the legislative and legal service, I would like to have the position or reply of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, it is important to point out that today we are talking about an act, the title of which is the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the sales, financial and real estate programme for 2003 and 2004, that is to say, the amendments to the proposal. The basic proposal is much broader, both by content and by subject. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given us two lists on which it is not visible the most important - which are the criteria for why it is decided. In my opinion, we should get much more extensive information if we want our decision to be at least a little more credible if we don't want to be exclusive and just copycats of the government. I believe that this is the interest of individuals in this national assembly, but the full interest of this national assembly should not be. We should be more responsible as far as this is concerned. We get a price on a sheet of paper. We don't know. We don't know. We don't know. We don't know. Thus, the parliamentary groups before me, some who are more important to the decision-making process, have all said yes, they do not care how the price came to be, which were the criteria of sale, nothing. I personally assess that this, of course, should not be, or should not be, the hallmark of the national assembly. Unfortunately, reality is different. According to my assessment, irrespective of the status form of companies which the State somehow renounces or transfers capital shares to other forms, that is to say d.o.o., a limited liability company whose characteristics are held by capital companies or any other form. In my opinion, if the National Assembly would like to treat state, financial and real property in particular with at least a little credibility and with a certain sense of responsibility for this property, it should reject this decision until we have all the information that points to the course of the event and, more importantly, all the information from which it will show why it is being done. Sadly, though, we today act or act on the sole basis of the fact that this is a national property. I have nothing to do with it. That's all I'm gonna vote for today. What's going to happen to me is totally irrelevant. But whose task is the responsibility to this property, if not to this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If we continue to do so, even today, when we vote tonight, we will no longer be left with this kind of matter. And I stress once again: the criteria. As long as we have this way, indeed, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, I do not believe that we will be able to change anything in the long term in the structure of public finances. At the very least in the structure that is expressed through the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, where revenue is, or in the form of what I said at the outset, it is in ensuring the public interest that can be demonstrated, both in the field of utilities or, of course, more importantly, employment. One or two days ago, we spoke again about coherent regional development. We were saying that the country should act as a good master. There was once no talk about the creation of businesses because of profits. Above all, we have spoken about satisfying the public interest that can be demonstrated, or one form of public interest is also, of course, consistent regional development. In my opinion, these should be the tasks of the National Assembly. However, there is no way to accept this kind of report, which I can certainly claim to be shameful, that it is flawed, that the mockery of this national council - but, of course, it is not the most important thing to make fun of our common property. In order for this to not be so simple, this national assembly allows this mockery by making such decisions. And to conclude. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we do not intend to support the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the sales programme of the State financial and real property. We have repeatedly appealed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to meet with a legal form where the paths, ways, criteria, assessments will be defined that we will know where we are. But no. The Slovenian Government shall decide on the sale of ad hoc. If he makes any other decision, he doesn't tell us. So, unfortunately, our decisions are not credible. We will not support this decision in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Dr. Jože Bernick has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Good. Mr. Jerovšek? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Trofenik, he's not here. Mr. Pece must be here by now. Sir, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have listened with great interest now to the presentations of the groups of Members. Above all, I must draw attention to the fact that the representatives of the largest party in Slovenia, which rules us, are not here today. And they are not prepared to take responsibility, a position that they will certainly take tonight, when there will be no transfer, when people are getting to sleep, they will not know what happened today. And they won't know what happened today, because I'm sure they won't be writing anything in the paper tomorrow, as they usually don't. And it'll pass. What's going to pass? There will be some irresponsible action by the Slovenian government, which once again proposes to the National Assembly, to sign the Bianca Opinion and to grant permission for a matter which is, in essence, unacceptable to any parliament in the world. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen and colleagues, that two representatives of the large coalition's parliamentary groups have today warned and acknowledged that they had already adopted a decision on the Finance Committee in June and called on the government to present a new proposal to amend the law on the sale of state property. This was the basis for this, since they were not satisfied at the time when the first decree, which is being amended today, was the subject of a hearing on this committee. This is clearly stated in the rapporteur. Anyone can look at that. However, the government did not respond. Of course, the result cannot be that we will now support the idea of "maybe next time". Now is the time for the actual executive authorities to prove and demonstrate our will that this national assembly is no longer playing such games, that we will sign and approve things that in their essence cannot be acceptable. What's this all about? Now we're in a period of our history when we're happily selling mom's gold. And this is an unrepeatable period, because once we sell everything, we'll have nowhere else to take it. What we're selling is we're using it to cover various holes and we're creating this atmosphere "yes, because everything's fine, what's fine with this opposition, because everything's fine." Gentlemen, it's not all right. Why this systematic impossibility? Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not wish to present to the National Assembly what the law itself says and the constitution? Because there's obviously something hiding. What's he hiding? Yeah, we don't know. We don't know because a simple state council doesn't get these reports. They don't get them because we're left-handed, we've been removed, but we're voting, and, as it was once said, the caravan goes on -- just so it won't get far, Mr President. This caravan - all of a sudden it's gonna run out, we won't have anything to sell anymore. You may find it strange that it is from New Slovenia, which we are so advocating for privatisation, on behalf of our parliamentary group Dr. Bernik has already said that we will vote against this. Not because we're defending that the country should be a very good master, because we know it isn't. However, we cannot accept selling in such an imprudent way. Dearly beloved, we are not condemned to sit silently as members of the National Assembly and to approve such imprudent conduct. And there's no need for any special revolutionary gesture, just not to take this decision. Because this is how our government behaves - when they receive a certain instruction from Brussels on how to behave, they do. And they'll do it now. If tonight, when Slovenia is going to go to bed, we send a message to our government that this national assembly is no longer going to be going, we will soon get, and how soon will we get such a proposal for the law that this country needs. And how much we need him! Your Honor! And things happen again and the world goes on. I don't know, maybe in a few months we'll be reading about the sale of these companies, which are now being proposed here, just as we suddenly read in one week now a few days ago about the sale of the military industry in a clearly opaque way. Do we have an opinion on this? We can't have him because we don't have the data. This National Assembly is here just to "ex ante" approve and allow all of this. But after everything that's happened, after the SIB bank, is it not a long time ago that we have to make this decision once. See if that's interesting. I'm sure you remember when we discussed this in this national assembly and I asked on behalf of the parliamentary group a question to the Prime Minister about the SIB bank. And I said, the solution is very simple, the contract has to be cancelled, the money has to be returned, the responsibility to determine and the thieves shut down. If the Slovenian state does not have enough lawyers to help the Slovenian government do so, yes, then God help us. If we haven't done this before, it's because there is no political will. And because there is no political will, these stories repeat themselves. And we read again in Slovenian media that these same people, who were also associated with this unfortunate and still unresolved case of SIB, appear in another deal, which is also strangely pawned. Of course, in this National Assembly, at least we from the opposition will take another step to get this information in time. But don't think it'll go away. Tonight, perhaps this, you have enough votes in this National Assembly, you will approve. But we will fall again in the exam to send that message to the Slovenian government once and for all, this national assembly in this composition is no longer going on. Transparency or nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Now would be the time to ask Mr Žunič to present this decision, which was lagging behind at the beginning, and to answer the questions raised in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Zunich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! Dear Members! The presentation itself highlights the fact that already this year we would like to start the process of privatising the three companies mentioned, which is why the proposal now appears in the National Assembly, despite the fact that the proposal for a decision to privatise state assets for the years 2004 and 2005 is already being repeated in the procedure, and in this sense the proposals of these three companies will be repeated. So much for explaining this. It is possible to do certain essential things already in December, in particular with regard to the Mežica mine, which is closed, in the subsidiary company, in respect of the means that this company would urgently need to close already this year. In the case of 49% of the business share of the nominal value of 144 million tolars in the E-mail of the Post of Slovenia, it is only necessary to stress this in addition that this is a strategy of a company that wants to extend its scope of business. With such ownership, it loses its market opportunities, so the new owner would enable society to operate significantly more efficiently and improve performance, as was discussed today. In that sense, I think this move here is logical. Third, it is the sale of 0.14% of the business share of the nominal value of 160 million tolars held by the Republic of Slovenia in the company Drava power plant. I think it is unnecessary to mention that 0.14% - the share does not represent any significant part in the performance of society. Here, the Republic of Slovenia directly represents as a legal person a minority share, but it makes sense to sell this share also because of the amount it would acquire. It's a nominal value of 160 million. Let me explain this. The data presented in the table in this Decision are complementary to the existing decree, which fairly comprehensively explains all sales of assets for 2003 and 2004. As already mentioned and reiterated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy today, in one of the responses, we have stressed that this is slightly less than 10% of the total consolidated state of the state's assets balance. That basic decree explains all the cases, which are of these 488 billion and some, from the case to the case. In this case, of course, this decision today concerns only three additional proposals which, for the reasons I have mentioned, could start this year and continue to privatise definitively next year. The amounts representing the nominal value do not constitute the price as mentioned today in one case. The amount means, in fact, what is registered as capital in a court of law. So it's registered capital in court. How the price comes later, however, of course, is a matter of privatisation. We are implementing this privatisation process solely on the basis of all the legislation already adopted, the Public Finance Act, which requires, in each individual process, the sale of state property, of course, to be valued in order to deal with this particular professional commission, so that all these procedures and results can then be verified by the government, and also subsequently adopted by the government. Here I can say that, in the case of the Electronic Letter, as Mr Bernik has pointed out, where about a third of this bookkeeping value is concerned, this does not mean that this amount will be sold for this matter. The case will be sold according to my assessment right now for a substantially higher amount. I cannot say, I cannot predict exactly what amount this will be sold for, but I am sure that this capital investment is worth more than book value. Of course, in the case of others, this value will also deviate from the nominally recorded value in a court of law, but the procedure will show what this value is. However, the value shall be calculated by first determining the value of the firm, following the valuation procedure, then a call for tender where tenders are, of course, assessed and the deviations between what is offered and what is calculated, and in the third phase, taking into account the views of minority shareholders, if any, and also agreeing with them on what their output is. For all forms of state property, and this is also stated in the previous text of the decree, as well as in the committee itself, we have explained this, we do not merely take into account the budgetary financial effects, although they are of course "condition of the son of the quantum". We take into account the public interest in particular. This is about looking for such strategic partners who are ready and able to see their role in each individual company or bank that is being sold in the long term; who are willing to support in their strategy the position of this company on the market, which see in this comparative advantage, which will commit themselves to also allow a certain number of people who are employed in such companies to have jobs in the long term. To mention here, a very important condition was also in the case of systemic technology. In this case, which has been mentioned today, but is not in this decree, some of the other conditions that I am now talking about have been met. Only unilaterally now to assess, after which one part of the basic funds was valued specifically in the entire company and then in part, if I say so, sold forward, I do not think it is enough. So, I say, after all, if we come up with such strategic partners who will be willing to support those industries that are perspective in Slovenia in the long term, then I am sure that we are on the right track. And of all these amounts, which are listed here, we normally expect certain financial effects, but we also need to take into account all the procedures that are legally exceptionally good, in my opinion, already established. However, as regards the decision itself and the presentation of the individual decree in Parliament, I repeat, we have answered this question on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which Dr Bayuk reiterated today. We have said that - and I think that the Committee has also taken note - that changes are being made in this respect within the framework of the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I forgive you, but we have to call again, because obviously in the presentation of the government representative, Mr Secretary of State, at least it seems to you that you do not understand what this is really about. I ask myself - and I ask you all - why are we even dealing with this today? We are considering this because the government cannot sell anything without our permission. Because the responsibility for this first and decisive step is in our legal order, this national assembly. Why, do you think the gentlemen of the government are here to explain to us how everything is going to be okay and to accept it? Because if we don't give this permission, there's nothing they can do. What if we give it to him? Yeah, and then they'll do what they're used to doing: in a strictly imprecise way. As the Secretary of State himself said, as the Commission is - because I know that the Commission and the Commission are working very seriously, they certainly are not laughing, and then they report to the government. To whom does the government report? Do you know when we know anything about this thing? When implementing the budget, to what final account is the small amount of income. However, those responsibilities that a person would expect from an institution that could not do so at all if they did not give me permission, and those responsibilities are not. And it's not easy because this national council doesn't require it. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, until this is clear, we will persist in New Slovenia, whether transparency or nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say a few thoughts, not as a client's point of view. I'm more concerned about something else in this decision. I don't know if you've all noticed that this is about selling companies that are all from one part of our country. I don't know why. Secondly, my comment about crying too often in the National Assembly about something that's happening next to us, and we don't care. And I will say this: A cellulosic factory in Krka, Iverka in Nova Gorica, if these two companies stop working, we have no one else to sell wood or wood in Slovenia. And yet no one says anything. Local factors dictate to each other, but companies will shut down. Next. When you growl and sigh, how to sell companies. Gentlemen, the Baca Podbrdo factory went bankrupt last year, actually, before last year. Which one of you has already gone to see these workers? And I also tell you that the bankruptcy manager didn't get a buyer on the third request to sell those halls that are in the deserted valley that people, God and I have left in Parliament. Why are we being so hypocritical? Not everything can be sold, my people. And the market value is the one that I can get for the concrete hall, where I'm going to have to give something else that's there today, a fabric knitting machine that nobody wants to buy today -- not machines, not halls, not set up. So sometimes I listen in this room a little bit of sentimentality as it is in the economy. The economy is cruel and will be even more cruel. The fact that state money kept companies, those days were over. Believe me, they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u162	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No one else. There's still some time left. Nobody. Then I conclude the general debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution, it is not possible to discuss the individual parts of this resolution, so I conclude the debate. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place tonight, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We'll continue at 16.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u163	I want a nice afternoon, and I want an evening. We're at 20. Agenda items - First defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering in the National Assembly We have a very large agenda item, at least according to the declared time for discussion. If colleagues or colleagues change their minds and shorten their debates, then tonight too, the rule will apply that 15 minutes after the final debate on the last, i.e. 20th, we will move on to a decision. Please take this into account, especially in the light of the fact that one of the decisions will be linked to the quorum of two thirds. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on elections to the National Assembly was submitted by the Government to the Assembly. We have a minister or a secretary of state with us. Which one of you is going to introduce yourself? Mr Secretary of State, Dr Virant will present the Government's proposal or give an additional explanation, and then we will hear representatives of the parliamentary groups. Please, Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The electoral system is one of the pillars of the political system in the country. And today you have before you a bill that interferes with some of the essential parameters of the electoral system. The new law on elections to the National Assembly covers three sets of new solutions, namely, firstly, new solutions relating to the electoral system in the strict sense of the word, that is, voting and determining outcomes. Another time. New solutions relating to the easier exercise of electoral rights, i.e. the simplification of the exercise of electoral rights, and the third set of solutions relating to the easier organisational execution of elections in financial, human and organisational terms. First time. The election system. In 2000, the National Assembly, as the founder of constitutional law, recorded in article 80 of the Constitution the basic starting points of the electoral system. It was decided that Members, with the exception of Members of the National Communities, should be elected in accordance with the principle of proportional representation, at a 4% electoral threshold, with voters having a decisive impact on the allocation of seats to candidates. The proposed law constitutes a realisation, a legal realization of the implementation of those constitutional starting points. The proposed law contains the following fundamental principles regarding the electoral system. First time. Proportional system for the division of sent-mail mandates among lists, depending on the percentage of votes obtained. Another time. A two-phase division of the sent-out mandates by first dividing part of the mandates in the electoral units and then the remainder at the state level, with the change in the allocation coefficient in the electoral units increasing the proportion of the so-called direct mandates, i.e. those to be distributed in the first stage of division at the level of the electoral units. The proposed electoral system removes the illusion of preferential voting, which is typical of the current electoral system, and enforces a genuine preferential vote, a genuine preferential vote, a real opportunity for voters and voters to influence which of the candidates on the list will be elected. Therefore, the vote for the proposed electoral system is a vote to bring electoral legislation into line with the Constitution. The vote for the proposed electoral system is a vote to promote healthy competition between candidates within individual parties or within individual candidate lists, namely competition, which is ultimately decided by voters. Every healthy competition, we know, promotes quality, improves quality. If the National Assembly decides today to support this concept in the first reading, in general treatment, some electoral system modality, for example, the number of electoral units, for example, the way in which mandates are divided into other ones, can be agreed below, this is on the national level. And also on any consideration of the will of those voters who do not wish to cast a preferential vote, thereby expressing their support for the orderly order of candidates, as determined by the party or other proposer. The second part of the new solutions is measures relating to the easier exercise of electoral rights. The law extends the possibility of voting by post to all electors and voters who are absent or absent from their place of residence for any reason on the day of the vote. Secondly, it facilitates the voting abroad, i.e. the vote for voters and voters who are on the day of the vote abroad, because they reside there on a permanent or temporary basis, i.e. for our emigrants and locals, by allowing easier means to confirm the electoral card, allows the Republican Election Commission to determine, therefore, the simpler ways and validation of the electoral card, and also cheaper ways, which is particularly important for our voters in those countries which either do not have diplomatic and consular representations in Slovenia or are so large in the territory of that country that the DKPs are far away or vice versa. The law introduces the possibility of electronic voting as an option to be decided by the Republic Election Commission, to a greater or lesser extent, anything relating to the provision of appropriate technical and technological conditions. Organisational solutions. The proposed law brings some simplifications to the organizational conduct of the elections. This leaves the decision on the number of electoral thefts, which are no longer a constituent element of the electoral system, but are an administrative unit; it leaves the decision on the number of electoral thefts to the Republican Electoral Commission. This allows rationalisation, reducing their number to the number of administrative units, i.e. 58. Secondly, the law provides for the establishment of a special electoral commission to vote at diplomatic and consular representations, so that this part of the electoral process can be made easier and that in this segment the Republican Electoral Commission would not burden itself with simple routine, operational electoral tasks. The law ensures participation, the completion of electoral committees where they cannot be completed on a voluntary basis, which can happen in practice. The law provides that no income shall be paid for the remuneration received by members of the electoral bodies and the electoral committees, as has already been established for elections to municipal councils or local elections. If you do not agree with the individual elements of the proposed law, this does not, of course, mean that this would be the reason for the principle of opposition to the law in its entirety. Once again, the law can also be amended before the second treatment in individual elements, in individual modalities. However, I would like to reiterate that today, in the context of the general debate, there is a vote on a concept that means harmonising electoral legislation with the Constitution and means increasing, opening the possibility of voters to influence, and this is decisively affecting which candidate of the client list or list submitted by another candidate will be elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We have heard a complementary explanation from the proposer, the government. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. Let me add that, among others, there is an LDS delegation group which has not been listed, but not on their behalf. We will start in a row, colleague Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, behind her colleague Diaci. Will you do it? Please, Comrade Dr. Andrej Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's a good-bye to all of you! In New Slovenia we take very seriously the political values that form the basis of the rule of law. Well, we respect the Constitution. We are aware that a fair electoral system is an extremely important element of democracy. After all, we have formed ourselves as a party of our own because our previous society has failed to make promises about the establishment of a fair electoral system that the people have decided on at the referendum. We are committed to the voter's direct impact on the elections and on the most transparent system possible. The country should be run by people who people really wanted to elect. To the full extent, equality of electoral rights must be ensured. Although the amendment to Article 80 of the Constitution was adopted in 2000 against our will and, if we cannot change it properly, we owe it as a political party and we want to respect it fully. This also applies to the electoral threshold laid down in the Constitution for the whole country, not just the individual electoral unit. In Novi Slovenija we believe that this threshold is too low. We would support the amendment of the Constitution by raising the electoral threshold to 6% or at least 5%.As long as this constitutional regime applies, the legislator must take account of 4% of the electoral threshold, at the national level as a whole. Therefore, we strongly oppose the provision of this bill setting a lower threshold, since the first division of mandates in individual electoral units is intended to give every party directly to receive at least one thirteen of all the votes given in this electoral unit. With an average of 130 thousand valid votes, as in the individual electoral unit, that would mean that an independent list, which occurs only in one constituency, would receive one post in this electoral unit if it received at least 10,000 votes. This does not mean a single percentage of the vote at the level of the whole country, but by no means does it reach 4%, as defined in the Constitution as an electoral threshold. Therefore, our first requirement, from which we cannot withdraw, is to first check the electoral threshold. In electoral units, therefore, only those parties or lists who received at least 4% of all valid electoral votes in the country have the right to participate in the division of direct mandates. We must respect the Constitution in the part where it says that the previous regime will be maintained only for the elections in 2000. In the next year's elections, we must have a new electoral system, or the constitutionality of the elections will be questioned. Until the next elections, we must therefore correct the electoral system in order to allow every electorate to be elected. This also comes from an older constitutional decision regarding referendums on electoral systems. Following the current system, the electoral result is identified as an electoral unit comprising 11 electoral districts. Therefore, it is not even certain whether any of the candidates will be elected from a given district. There have been numerous cases of electoral thefts in which two or even three MPs were elected and just as many electoral robberies were left without their MP. It's even worse within individual customers. A voter who has decided on a particular party has no opportunity in his constituency to give his vote to the one of his party's candidates who seems most appropriate. In a given district, only one candidate and electorate may be nominated by an individual party other than to elect the candidate or the other party. The sympathizer of a particular party does not choose between several candidates, but can only confirm the candidate put by the client's office in its constituency. This weakness in the current regulation of the bill solves the bill in an appropriate manner by abolishing the election thefts. A voter would, so he can choose among those who would be appointed by individual parties in his constituency. Each of these lists should include so many candidates, such as the sent-out terms, which are elected in this constituency. In New Slovenia, we support the proposal to introduce an absolute preferred vote. Therefore, the voter should be given a list of as many candidates as the parliamentary mandates on the electoral list for each party participating in his electoral unit. He will vote by surrounding the Roman number before the name of the list, the party or the independent list and the Arabic number before the name of the candidate. In such a case, his vote will be counted as a vote for this list and as a preferential vote for this candidate. Votes will also be valid, on which it will surround only the Roman number before the name of the list or only the Arabic number before the name of the candidate. In the event that it surrounds only the number before the name of the candidate, it will be considered that it has cast its vote for the list on which the candidate and the preferential vote for that candidate are located. However, if the electorate surrounds only the number before the name of the list, his vote shall be considered as the vote of the list and each candidate on the list shall receive one eleventh of the preferred vote. This means that a single vote for one term will be given to the candidate who will receive the most preferential votes, irrespective of his or her order on the list. The proposal is absolute, meaning that the voter votes, which will be marked on the ballots by the name of the list without even surrounding the name of the candidate selected, will in some parts be allocated to all the candidates in this list. In Novi Slovenije we demand that only complete lists be accepted for the elections. If individual parties were allowed to submit a list of fewer candidates, such as the sent-out mandates elected in this unit, this would certainly be misused by some client bureaucrats. In the extreme, only so many candidates would be registered on the electoral list as foreseen for the number of mandates. That way, candidates at the top of the list would avoid the risk that one of the other candidates would get more preferential votes, but then the voters would not have a choice among more candidates again. For the same reason, we are also opposed to defining the mandate in the manner set out for the European elections. This is to receive from the list, which has a single vote, this term as the first candidate on the list, if there were two votes for, first and second on the list and so on. We support the extension of the electoral deadline for voters from abroad. This was also required by the Constitutional Court. We oppose the introduction of electronic voting. Elections must be a glorious act because they are the highest expression of democracy. Therefore, it is right for the electorate to personally go to the electorate, where he shows himself to the other voters and to the electoral commission. This must by no means be some intimate business where an electorate in the privacy of his room would pick up a computer and type, whose candidate or party would elect. It's just a form. More importantly, it's content. Firstly, despite all the guarantees of electronic commerce, it is not absolutely safe. Abuses are possible and can be massive. Even in elections on paper sheets, where each step is personally monitored, there are reasonable suspicions of abuse. But on the air, personal control is impossible. The correctness and secrecy of the elections must be beyond suspicion. I cannot go to the election with the feeling that some strong subterranean group of elections will manipulate my vote so that the election will be won by those who can break through software data protection, not those who are better in the eyes of voters. Another time. At this year's failure of the Ljubljana Bank with the Sigma project, we have seen how a highly praised electronic data processing project can turn out. We just can't afford Sigma's election. We therefore oppose the introduction of electronic voting. In New Slovenia we support the proposal to increase the number of electoral units. However, we are concerned that it will be very difficult to define such units, which everyone will like, as the preference for individual options per country is not evenly distributed. By moving the electoral force border, the electoral result of an individual party can therefore be strongly altered. That is why we expect all of us to be sober about this business. In all electoral systems, electoral geometry is very important. Division of constituencies or districts. Even in Slovenia, the debate on the number and delimitation of electoral districts and constituencies has been ongoing since independence. In each of the eight constituencies, the number of electors is approximately the same. However, there are large differences in the constituencies, since they are twice the size of the smallest. This is contrary to the principle that each vote should have the same weight as half the votes in the smallest constituency are sufficient for the election. With the abolition of electoral thefts, this problem would be solved, but the question of whether the electoral unit is too large to date is being reopened. Under the existing number of Members, on the assumption that they are approximately the same, only 8, 11, 22, 34 or 88 constituencies can be determined. In principle, in Nova Slovenija we advocate a greater number but about the same units. If electoral units were uneven, however, all combinations could be possible, but immediately put into question the principle of equality of electoral rights. This issue would arise mainly in the second division of votes, according to the proposed system, because the candidates of individual parties from all constituencies competed with each other. If electoral units are uneven, candidates from larger electoral units will be preferred because more voters will be more likely to vote. Instead of taking an absolute number of votes into account by percentage of the preferred votes for each candidate, candidates from small units who are easier to manage personally would be preferred. Between the two options, we support the ranking by an absolute number of preferred votes, which is more fair in our assessment. Otherwise, we stand for more than one unit. With the proposal to amend the electoral law, it is also essential to address the issue of the compatibility of a Member's function with other functions. In particular, the pressing issue is the mayors, who are also Members. In view of the design of this law, it would be better to resolve this issue in another law, which would prevent or restrict the possibility that the same person could simultaneously occupy functions where a conflict of interest is possible. Among other things, we support some changes in the electoral system. The introduction of an official blank ballot, as also known by some other countries, would allow the timely dispatch of electoral material abroad, given that the deadlines for the submission of applications and the publication of candidate lists do not change. The Republican Election Commission could then simplify the validation of electoral cards abroad and save Slovenian citizens an extra trip abroad. We demand that the law lay down certain technical details for the conduct of elections at the polls. In particular, on the electoral control list, or on the electoral directory in the constituency area, with which the electoral committee at the voter checks the participation, each voter shall sign. Now it is "set off" by members of the committee who could have come to the temptation that some of the voters who did not actually participate in the election would not have been marked. This would give us a quota of votes against candidates who could be voted out before counting votes. I don't blame anything. All I'm saying is that it's better to make the system so that the abuse can't be done at all. For the same reason, it should be laid down that the electorate must mark his choice with a pen that cannot be deleted. The best is a simple tower, since even after the ink has been erased, you can see a trail of pressure on the paper. In determining the electoral outcome in the current constitutional framework, we are landing in the proposed manner by which the electoral result is first identified directly after the electoral units. We only believe that it is better to use the scale between the number of mandates and the total number of votes in the unit to directly elect each mandate. The solution in the proposal to take account of the number of mandates increased by two is questionable in particular if there were 14 unequal constituencies. In the second division of votes under the d'Hondt system, there are some details in the proposal that are not acceptable to us. In the proposal for a law, it is unacceptable that the second division of mandates should take into account once again all votes for an individual list at the level of the whole country, not only the remaining votes that were not used in the first division. In this way, the party that received the mandates would receive once again the same number of terms for the second division of terms that had already been used in the first division in the direct division of mandates in individual electoral units. On the other hand, a party who lacks only one vote per electoral unit to the level could not obtain in competition with such a large party or in the second division of no mandate. There would have been a senseless situation. If 11 Members are elected in the constituency, it is sufficient to directly elect one eleven votes, that is 9.09%. Let us take the hypothetical case that a large party in each constituency has just voted in favour of the direct allocation of three mandates, 27.27 of all votes. In all eight constituencies, she therefore received 24 seats in total, which is also 27.27% of all 88 seats. After this division, she was left with no unused voice that would no longer be taken into account. Following the current system, he participates in the second division of the mandates with the remainder of the vote and therefore receives no mandate. If, in the second division of mandates, all votes for a party at national level were once again taken into account, the same party would receive, in the second division of mandates, the same number of mandates at the expense of those votes that had already been used in the first division. On the other hand, a small party who lacked only one vote to the level in each electoral unit could not win a competition with this large party or a second division of any mandate. The residual voice system also offers opportunities for smaller political parties, which is consistent with the substance of the proportional system and does not conflict with the Constitution. It is essential that political parties have equal opportunities to obtain a mandate or mandates. This position was also confirmed by the Court of First Instance. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, the proposal we are starting today requires a number of amendments and amendments. I call on the motioners, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, to take into account our comments in the second reading proposal and also our proposals presented here today on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. You, my colleague Vnučec, will present the position of the Youth Party's parliamentary group, then you will be followed by a colleague of Dr. Brejc. First, as a colleague of the Grandchild for the SMS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! Elections are one of the most important expressions of human sovereignty in the modern concept of democracy and are a prerequisite for the democratic formation of the most important state bodies, in particular the representative body. That is why democratic elections are also a prerequisite for the establishment and preservation of a modern rule of law. The elections thus allow the electorate to have a direct impact on the composition of Parliament, and thus also on the decisions taken by it. The elections gave us a mandate, a mandate to decide on their behalf on the most important social issues. The elections have given us the legitimacy of the exercise of power. The electoral system or electoral order can, in the broadest sense, be defined as a set of legal rules governing elections, or as a set of electoral principles and means for their implementation, which are regulated legally. Elections are a complex process and at the same time the procedure is very precisely regulated. This is precisely because elections are an extremely important and sensitive political action and it is necessary to prevent the possibility of disputes and misunderstandings between political actors in the elections as much as possible. And the first question that arises to us in the Young Slovenia Party is whether it is right to change the electoral system so late in the electoral year. We are changing the rules of the game, and the game has already begun. What's the situation today, we know. Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia governs elections to the National Assembly. On the basis of the provisions of the Constitution that the electoral system is governed by the law, an electoral law has been passed in the National Assembly. Article 80 of the Constitution was supplemented by Article 80 of the Constitution by the fifth paragraph of the Constitution providing that Members, other than Members of the national communities, shall be elected in accordance with the principle of proportional representation, at the 4 % electoral threshold for admission to the National Assembly, with voters having a decisive influence over the allocation of seats to candidates. The very decisive impact of the electorate is, following the proposal's assertion, a fundamental reason for the adoption of the amendment proposal, i.e. an increase in the impact of voters on the allocation of mandates. We welcome this intention in the Party of Young Slovenia, because we believe it is wise to allow preferential voting, so vote for an individual, not for a list. However, the proposal for a preferential vote brings other news. One of them is electronic voting. In the amendments submitted, the proposer took into account modern information solutions and provided for the possibility of an electronic way of voting. The bill regulates electronic voting in a way that completely equates it with classical voting, with voter participation on election day. Both types of voting are presented and regulated as equivalent in the draft law, which, in our view, is appropriate and consistent with the trends in the world and follows the future development of society. We are prepared to support this change in the Young Slovenia Party. But on the basis of conflicting views on this proposal by the biggest opposition party, we do not see a realistic possibility of receiving sufficient support. At the same time, this amendment is accompanied by an unacceptable provision for the Party of Young Slovenia on the abolition of election thefts. This is where the proposaler went in our opinion too far and we oppose it. Election units and districts are the areas to which the entire area in which the elections are to be held is divided before the elections. The fact is that the formation of electoral units and robberies is one of the fundamental issues of electoral technology and the organisation of elections. But it also has an extremely important form of self. And here's the problem. Election units and districts must be territorially completed units, not artificial works, which are the result of the calculation of individual parties for the success of the elections. And this is the main observation of the abolition of electoral thefts. Finally, it brings the centralisation of Slovenia, making it difficult for smaller parties to function, despite the fact that the Constitution provides for a proportional representation, i.e. a proportional electoral system. Are we therefore witnessing attempts to implement the majority electoral system in another way? In view of the low participation of voters and voters in the elections, we have proposed a change of election day in the Party of Young Slovenia. We propose Friday and Saturday instead of Sunday. This measure would enable and facilitate citizens to vote, which would also increase their interest by participating in the elections, as it is a more people-friendly timeframe. Such a measure could significantly increase electoral participation and thus strengthen the mandates of elected representatives of the legislative branch. Our proposal in the bill has not been taken into account nor has the proposal to reduce the age of electoral law, which has followed the same objective, to increase participation and thus democracy. The growing participation in the elections shows the estrangement of beloved representatives and the proposed law of this worrying trend due to excessive electoral units does not eliminate anything. In addition, the Young Slovenia Party advocates a clear separation between the mayor's and the MP's functions, which we believe are incompatible, if not in this law, with the law on local self-government or with the law on Members. In this area, too, we have not seen the proposaler's serious intention to remedy this. Thus, we do not believe that the proposal of the law before us ensures the direct will of citizens to elect Members, to which the motioners speak, because we believe that the real purpose of amending electoral legislation can be elsewhere. This, however, precludes the emancipation of candidates for smaller parties who have candidates on their lists who are not so politically interesting or identifiable, at least not like, for example, former or current government ministers, MEPs with two or three mandates. With this proposal, the proposer is particularly concerned that the entry into policy will prevent new individuals who are not yet known by the general Slovenian public, although they are highly recognised and highly supported by voters in the local districts where they live. But this does not help them much, as the bill of the border of theft shuts them down and transforms them into anonymities in a multitude of candidates of the electoral unit, compared with candidates who have been working in politics for some time. The main purpose of the candidates under the auspices of raising the voter's influence on the election of MPs in the law is also to allow a greater impact of the parties on who will be elected to the National Assembly, since, in contrast to other candidates, they have the advantage of a policy with a longer political and public kilometre, which, on average, people also know better in all regions, both in towns and in the countryside, because, last but not least, every day, for the last 10 years, they have been watching them, either on television or in the daily newspaper. We believe that the electoral system must enable all candidates to have equal opportunities to be elected. Such a proposal is far from this, as it provides exactly the opposite, safe and comfortable candidateing and emancipation to verified client staff, who hold back to the extent that they have finally written such a law that will allow for emancipation, despite the fact that people also want new faces. As a result of this proposal, we cannot support the Young Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u169	Good. My colleague, Dr Brejc, will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. After him is a colleague of Potts, and first is a colleague of Dr. Brace's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u170	Ladies and gentlemen! It is just a year away from the elections and we find that the government actually came very late with a proposal for amendments to the electoral law, if this law was adopted three years ago, there in July 2000 and the ruling coalition in its coalition treaty also wrote that it would harmonise electoral legislation with the constitution. Somehow it is very difficult for this government to harmonise legislation with the Constitution. Well, I have to make some repairs. In some cases, this government can speed things up and coordinate things very quickly, but in most cases it can't. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been working to do so all the time, and we continue to strive to ensure that voters have a decisive impact on the election of a Member. That is why this bill is acceptable on this side because, by introducing an absolute preferential vote, of course, it represents the fulfilment of the requirement laid down in Article 80 of the Constitution of Slovenia and, at the same time, the introduction of an absolute preferential vote gives voters the feeling that their voice will really contribute to choosing the one they want, in short, that this will not go into some hard-to-understanding, complex mathematical formula from which something will slip away and will not have any direct contact with the electorate's will. In short, we support the introduction of an absolute preferential vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The second novelty of this law is, I will not go into detail, because it is the first reading of course, the second novelty is the electronic elections. So-called electronic elections. I do not deny, and in our Group of Members, we do not deny some of the advantages that electronic elections could bring. For example, it would certainly be very useful for all those who, for any reason, find it difficult to move: elderly, elderly, sick, disabled, and so on. This would certainly allow this category of residents to do somehow easier, of course, if they wanted to do so, this right. Even for a wide range of voters, such a course would be quite comfortable, especially if the weather was uncomfortable and so on. The results would have been available sooner than before. However, many of the weaknesses of this system do not outweigh these few advantages that I have listed. The key problem is the secretion of elections. The moment I vote with the help of an electronic medium, it's written down somewhere. And people who can get into the system can figure that out. One fundamental principle of democratic elections is the secrecy of the vote. And unfortunately, of course, this technique, as we have it, is such that, at this stage of development, secrecy is not guaranteed. It is said that, on the very basis of the electronic elections at this level of information, they do not guarantee the fulfilment of the basic requirement, i.e. the secrecy of the elections. On the other hand, control is virtually impossible. It is said that control over the execution of electronic voting and, of course, the results are simply no longer possible. But the moment it was possible would also be an insight into how someone voted. Here we go again. Not to mention costs - costs for equipment of all voters, special equipment on the electoral commission, special equipment for the electorate. The voters may have mistakenly imagined that electronic elections were free of charge. A certificate is needed and an interface is needed, and everyone has to pay something for it. I don't know, at today's prices, it's probably about 30,000 tolls out there, for you to vote electronically, for you to be able, even if you ever had that electronic income, to fulfill that obligation. Thus, the costs for the electorate are also evident. The cost of the country is not just equipment, it is also a maintenance of the system, it is also an education of people who will work with such equipment. And if you take that modern equipment quickly obsolete, you can imagine new and new problems. And some who think that electronic voting is a very good thing just to remember how much problems hackers are causing, so people who are very skilled at using information and communication technology, many extremely protected defence, intelligence, banking and I don't know what systems. So, despite everything, there's not enough protection that a person can say good news, yes, and I'm in favour of an electronic vote. You'll say there are abuses in manual, classical voting as well. True, abuse may occur in some minor percentage, which probably does not affect the outcome at the end. But there can be an intervention here at the polling station itself - the hacker can be involved in the voting system, in the interface between the electorate and the electoral commission and, last but not least, in the central system. So there are many of these opportunities for abuse, for change and so on. A species would also be created on the electorate, because we should check everyone's electronic vote first. And so on, I do not list all these many arguments against. Well, not least, the ability of the Slovenian state to use modern information and communication technology in a truly high-quality way has been curtailed in many areas. Sigma has already been mentioned, and e-government, as it is said, is not satisfactory, at least from our point of view, billions go to projects under the CVI, but the effect is so far very painful. So I doubt that this year, before the elections, the government would be capable of such a complex project as electronic elections. Last but not least, if I am monitoring the situation in Europe and, for example, I recall the study that the European Parliament has specifically ordered for the European elections next year, the Czech Republic, whether it is possible to run European elections in this way already in 2004, i.e. via the Internet, for example, as they say, the decision is about the same as I justify it. So, for the time being, it appears that there will be nowhere to be, perhaps, one of the Baltic States will decide on this, but that is still a big question. In short, they don't have it anywhere in the world. Although, as we say in the second reading, we will table amendments and so on and say how we feel about specific provisions, let me just say that it is our firm belief that there must be as many candidates on the list as there are Members elected in the constituency. It seems appropriate to us for several reasons, but may I just mention that the full list also shows the maturity of some political option to take place in the elections. Not some, I don't know, speculative activity of individuals who think it would be good for them to go to elections. I am for democracy, for pluralism and so on, but there are also some limits that would have to be taken into account, and whoever goes to such a difficult task as elections and, of course, all the procedures involved, must have so much energy to gather as many candidates as Members are elected in the constituency. I think it is right to warn, as well as colleagues from New Slovenia, of the practice that is known in other countries, that the electorate, regardless of how well-known a person is in the local community, that we all know him or know him, always turns out to be a personal document. This is not about some bureaucratic minuciness, but it is simply about decency, respect for the rules of the game, to also be signed in an electoral directory with its name and surname, that of course confirms this presence there and so on. This is what they do around the world, in Europe at all, and I think it would be good if we used the practice of developed countries in some way. Of course, there are some other questions concerning changes to this law. For example, I think it's important to determine when the voice box is valid. I think we should be flexible here. If the elector surrounded only a Roman number before the name of the candidate list or chose an Arabic number before two or more names and surnames of candidates from the same list of candidates or otherwise unequivocally marked the list of candidates, then it is considered that he voted for the list and should not be bureaucratic here. If it is possible to understand the will of the electorate from the ballots what it was, then, of course, it is also necessary to allow it. The Council of the Slovenian Democratic Party has also given the initiative to discuss the amendment of electoral legislation and has somehow instructed the Group of Members to push for the amendment of the electoral law and we propose 14 electoral units in this regard. This is some meaningful regional representation, and of course, we are closer to the electorate. The more electoral units, the better we approach, as has been said today, the majority system, this idea of the majority system, or we increase the role of individual voters. We think it is appropriate that this is something that would also contribute to greater participation in elections, because people would then really believe that their voice means something. The second proposal, which we have considered and adopted in the world and then in the Group of Members, concerns the threshold for entry into Parliament. 4 percent, like now, I don't know if there's any country, probably, but most of them have between 5 and 7. We believe that the electoral threshold should be raised and that is why we have also proposed 6%. And when the debate on the amendment of this legislation was under way, we would also give a more detailed basis for our proposals in the debate. We also expect the proposer to prepare electoral legislation by at least the third reading, if not the second reading, so this law on electoral units, amendments to the relevant laws, individual articles in this sense, because it is only so amended - now that I say so - that electoral legislation as a whole would work in the direction we are working towards, which we are also working for. In short, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports these basic ideas that I have just discussed. We somehow decided to respect the Constitution, the constitutional law. But we expect from all those who voted in favour of constitutional changes in July 2000 and changed the constitution overnight - it is said, Members of the People's Party, Liberal Democracy, the United List, DeSUS - that perhaps I have forgotten someone else - that you will therefore respect what you did then and vote that way today. We just respect the constitutional decision, even though we don't like it. You know very well that we were very angry at this at the time, but well, now the constitution is what it is, and we have decided to support the procedure in this first stage, so that it goes to a second reading. For the second reading, we will prepare or have already prepared the amendments, and then we will see what the fate of this law will be in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you. My colleague Potræ will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. He's been followed by a fellow Rokavec. And first, my friend Potts. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Until 25 June 2000, by constitutional law, Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was amended, the electoral system was one of the main political themes for two, three years. The referendum on electoral systems, sanctioned by a Constitutional Court decision, declared the majority electoral system. As there was no need for a two-thirds consensus on the implementation of such a system in the National Assembly, the National Assembly, by amending the Constitution, declared the electoral system of the proportional representation, at a 4% electoral threshold and the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of seats to candidates. In doing so, the Constitutional Law directly complemented the provisions of the Elections Act in the National Assembly, declaring that these provisions apply to the implementation of the elections in 2000 and to the enforcement of amendments to the law. The government of Dr. Bajuk, in which the three former Constitutional Judges were composed, objected to such a decision by the National Assembly in the European Commission for Democracy through Law, which is the highest European institution for legal matters. It requested the Commission to examine whether the amendment to the Constitution of 25 June 2000 constituted a solution that was in line with European democratic standards. The reply of the so-called Venice Commission was clear and clear. I quote: "The results of the referendum of 8 December 1996 may prevent the National Assembly from exercising its constitutional competence in accordance with the Constitution. The Commission notes that the response of the National Assembly to the possibility of a constitutional stalemate, namely the adoption of amendments to the Constitution on 25 June 2000, which is strictly in accordance with the relevant constitutional provisions, is not contrary to European democratic standards." End of quote. In other words, all the accusations that we so much like to hear from the representatives of the parties who at the time opposed such a decision and were the proponents of the referendum on the majority electoral system were, at that time, able to do so and today they are no longer justified. Now we have a proportional electoral system in our constitution. The legitimacy of this system and the solution we have come to its implementation are no longer legally and politically possible to speak about its correctness. But we didn't make it happen. It is right now to talk about whether the applicable law on the electoral system is fully in conformity with the Constitution or not, and in particular whether it provides for the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of seats to candidates, which would be a special novelty, a complement to the constitution. Whether the addition of the law on elections by constitutional law is appropriate is still an indefinite time or should be replaced as soon as possible by additions and amendments to the current electoral law, since we have already voted once after the constitutional changes. The latter is sought by the proposed law on behalf of the government. It maintains the electoral system of proportional representation and 4% of the electoral threshold. The abolition of electoral thefts further ensures the equality of active electoral rights, while eliminating the impact of many very unequal electoral thefts on election; the smallest and largest ratios are almost 1:3. The abolition of electoral thefts strengthens the principle that Members and Members are representatives of all the people, since the binding of certain Members on the interests and orientations of their constituencies in particular has called into question the implementation of the constitutional principle set out in Article 82 of the Constitution by which Members are representatives of all people. And by introducing an absolute preferential vote, it is intended to ensure the decisive impact of the electorate and electorate on the allocation of mandates. These are also the reasons why in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats we support in principle amendments and additions to electoral legislation. However, we believe that all the solutions proposed do not provide this and that they still need to be aligned with those principles. This applies specifically to the statutory principle of dividing the mandates of identical lists at the country level, since the proposed provisions clearly deviate from the principle of proportionality and force strongly disproportionately on the part of the parties with the highest proportion of votes, which is contrary to the Constitution. So far, discussions between representatives of the parliamentary groups, which in principle support amendments to the law, have already confirmed the willingness of all to abolish and ensure that these anomalies in the draft law drafted by the Government divide their mandates in strict compliance with the principle of proportionality. In addition to these principled views, it is also right to say that a broad debate has developed in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, as well as in other parties, with the necessary changes to the electoral system, drawing attention to some important issues. First of all, whether the arguments for amending the law are merely formal or sufficient, since even according to the Constitutional Court's assessment of the existing electoral system, voting on candidates in the constituencies means at least partially ensuring the overwhelming impact of the electorate and electorate on the elected Members. Whether the proposed changes do not significantly reduce the possibility of even distribution of elected Members across Slovenia, as some estimates suggest that they offer more opportunities to elect candidates in larger centres. The question is what would be the allocation of Members and Members across all territories or entirely the territory of Slovenia if the new electoral system was consistently implemented. Furthermore, whether the solutions by the abolition of electoral thefts are also premeditated enough to achieve greater independence of Members from the interest of the constituency, as they also increase the impact of party leadership on the proposal and ranking of candidates on the lists in the electoral units - I think from first to last. Among other things, whether the proposal for an absolute preferential vote, which certainly reduces or eliminates the main impact of the parties on classification, is appropriate because the question of how much could be ensured by the use of a preferential vote is also the required number of preferred votes. With a preferential voice, except at local level, so far we have no special experience. It is difficult to move forward, for the first elections, to indicate the extent of the preferential vote, and to allow the possibility that the order of election could also be affected by very few already put-up preferential votes, in theory only one, which is not considered by some to be the basis for the credibility of the outcome of the elections. The issues that still need to be discussed in depth are, therefore, a great deal. Unfortunately, two coalition parties have given up their willingness to follow the implementation of constitutional changes, although a joint performance was first agreed. Therefore, the possibility of discussing the content of the electoral system was somewhat less, and the time for possible changes is also running out, as it would be inappropriate for the voters, as well as for the candidate list, to change the electoral system only a few months before the elections. In particular, if the changes will also have a significant impact on the candidate system and the different system for organising the electoral campaign, the solutions proposed will mean. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we strive to take decisions on the electoral system as soon as possible. At the same time, we believe that neither the existing nor proposed electoral system in itself is ideal. Even less so, the current electoral system, after which we have voted three times so far, may be said not to guarantee democratic and fair elections. For us, therefore, the issue of changes in the electoral system is not a crucial issue and cannot be linked either to the degree or to the development of democracy and the credibility of the political system in our country. However, it would be correct to follow the provisions of the Constitution and to amend it in this mandate.We wish to agree on the necessary amendments in other parties, including in coalitions. We would like the representatives of the parties to go beyond their own perspectives and be prepared to seek common solutions. Without this willingness, let us be realistic, two-thirds of an absolute majority cannot be assured. Finally, we expect that discussions on changes in electoral legislation will not polarise Slovenian policy again. Not to be used again for big words about righteous or unjust systems, about democracy, about the will of the people and the like. The electoral system is always and everywhere the result of the real interests of the parties. Otherwise, there cannot be a multilateral system, and the view and interest of each party is legitimate, neither shows nor magnifies, nor can any of them be assessed in advance as unacceptable. In the UK Group, therefore, we want the current electoral system to be aligned with the Constitution, despite the fact that the changes that have been prepared are not ripe for a final decision, we will overwhelmingly support them. It is only in this way that we can ensure that proposals are drawn up for the second reading to ensure that Members and Members are elected consistently in accordance with the principle of proportional representation, that the introduction of a preferential vote will ensure the decisive impact of voters and voters on the election and that the abolition of electoral thefts will ensure that voters and voters have a direct choice among several candidates on the same list, and that the principle that Members and Members of Parliament are representatives of all people is strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Mr Rokavec will now have the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You have the floor. I'll put it behind you, buddy. First, my colleague Rokavec for the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have examined the draft law in detail, because we believe that this is an important area which, as a result, concerns all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that any change in electoral legislation in the pre-election year is by no means appropriate, as the attempt to change the electoral system at that time reduces the sense of stability in the country. Furthermore, it seems to us that the fight would make sense to reflect on possible changes to electoral legislation after the regionalisation has been finalised, as we will be able to take account of the introduction of the provinces in this way. We believe that the introduction of an absolute preferential vote is incomplete. The proposal foresees that an electorate on a ballot containing the names of so many candidates listed below when the party proposes them to an electoral unit shall surround one of the names or lists. And in this we see a key problem. In fact, the absolute preferential vote can only be given if the electorate is extremely assured that he can vote for only one of the candidates on the same list. However, this proposal does not and does not allow the law to do so. And so the electorate is not given an exclusive choice as to who will represent them in Parliament. The weakness of the proposed electoral system with regard to the introduction of the preferred vote also increases the percentage of invalid votes possible, as any change is a novelty that voters do not yet know. We estimate that the government proposal represents a departure from the principle of equal representation of different parts of the country in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would like to point out that this proposal can have significant negative consequences for regional development. This is unacceptable from the point of view of our party. The constituencies offer more opportunities to represent different areas, which should be in the interest of the State. There was no speech to change the constitution of 2000. Therefore, today's reference to this means only a cheap deception to the public, since no proposal to amend the Constitution has been tabled in the proceedings under way. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not agree with the proposed solution, which would provide for the abolition of electoral thefts without a simultaneous significant increase in the number of electoral units. We estimate that the adoption of the abolition of the thefts threatens equal regional representation, the proposed increase in the number of electoral units, because we believe that it would be essential to increase the possibility of electing candidates from non-urban areas as well. We estimate that the proposal for a law departs from the first paragraph of Article 82 of the Constitution, which provides that a Member is a representative of all people and is not bound by any instructions. We have also witnessed this in the process of submitting this bill. We further believe that the law tends to reduce the independence of Members. I would like to remind you of the decision on the proposal to start amending the Constitution of Article 44, which we have decided on and adopted by a large majority - I think even unanimously - at the last extraordinary meeting. This is a proposal concerning the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men to run for elections. In the debate and in the public presentation of the opinions, we were informed of statistics that represented a catastrophically low proportion of women in the various authorities and also in Parliament. The bill that we are discussing at this time not only does it not promote equal opportunities, but it clearly reduces it with its changes. We believe it is unacceptable to adopt a law that is moving away from the proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure, which we so positively assessed just a week ago. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it would make sense to adopt a solution that would regulate that the candidate in the area in which he is running should remain for at least 6 months. With the proposed addition, we will achieve that the candidate is more closely linked to the electoral unit, thus making it easier to represent the interests of the electorate. We believe that such a provision could, of course, be an exception for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia living outside our borders. In its proposal, the Government introduced a novelty relating to the technical implementation of the vote, namely electronic voting. We are quite skeptical in the SLS Group until then. In our party, we certainly support the Government's efforts to develop and implement the EU administration, but we see quite a few obstacles in the implementation of this ambitious project. Article 80 of the Constitution and Article 1 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly provide that Members shall be elected by secret ballot in direct elections. The introduction of electronic voting makes it virtually impossible to ensure the directness and secrecy of the vote at this time. We also estimate that the consequences of this type of vote could be many abuses, according to our latest data, no country has yet conducted electronic elections at national level. In the drafting of the Government's proposal, we could see that in the United States they had introduced the first electronic voting project in 2000, but only at the party level organised by a democratic party. In Estonia, the possibility of general electronic elections is announced as early as this year, the Netherlands predicts the experimental introduction of this vote in 2004, Germany predicts an electronic vote in the 2006 general elections and so on. In the financial implications assessment, the proposer says that the law will not have them. In the SLS Group, we wonder how 86.c can be implemented. Article, unless all electoral committees on all voters are provided with all the software required to be able to directly monitor the status of the electoral directory. We are also wondering how the proposer intends to provide direct electronic connection to all voters, taking into account the infrastructure level of the Slovenian countryside as well. We are interested in whether and how it is possible to ensure that the electorate does not vote twice in person and once electronically. Even with what verification only this fact could be ascertained, but not with which candidate he unjustifiably gave an additional vote. We believe that the prerequisite for the introduction of an electronic voting method is effective plural and qualified control. The proposal seems to us more likely to justify the need for the Ministry of Information Society to continue its existence. However, we believe that it is possible to introduce a pilot electronic voting project for Slovenians around the world for the 2004 elections, pending a new proposal on electronic voting. As for the news on the way the electoral committees are drawn up, we are speaking restrictively in the SLS Group. In accordance with the proposal, the president and members of the Committee are to be appointed from among public servants. This amendment is justified by facilitating the provision of staff and the professionalisation of operations. In the SLS Group, we believe that the current solution is better than the proposed solution. The proposaler's argument about providing personnel seems unconvincing. We believe that with the solution proposed, there will be no less difficulty in providing staff, even if we think that ensuring the interest and motivation of such personnel can be even questionable. We believe that the participation of political parties in all stages of the elections ensures the required plurality and legitimacy of the elections, while reducing the possibility of possible later complications and doubts about the legality of the elections. Allow me to conclude by stressing the key concerns why, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the proposal for a law is very weak and at the same time inappropriate for further consideration. In democratically regulated countries, electoral legislation does not change during the electoral year. The amendment of electoral legislation would be wise to plan after the completion of the regionalisation of the Republic of Slovenia. And proposals to increase the electoral threshold can only be seen because such a proposal is not tabled in the current constitutional changes. The proposal is also under-thinking and as is indicated by the marked trend towards the new centralisation of our country, it reduces the possibility of equal representation of small and medium-sized cities and rural areas in the National Assembly - a shift from the principle of equal representation of all parts in the National Assembly. The proposed abolition of electoral thefts cannot adequately replace the proposal for the establishment of 14 electoral units. Nor does the law regulate the provisions on the permanent stay of candidates in the electoral unit. The proposed preferential vote is not absolute and thus does not allow the electorate to have a decisive or key influence on the election of Members and Members of the National Assembly. The manner of electronic voting is inaccurate and does not allow for possible major abuses of elections, so it would only make sense to introduce it as a pilot for voting abroad. The proposal is also aimed at mistrusting the members of the electoral committees so far, which further raises questions about the purpose of the bill. This is just a few key arguments why, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we rightly assess that the proposal for amendments and the addition of the electoral law to the National Assembly is not suitable for further consideration and is probably even harmful for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. The presentation of the views of the members of the groups will be concluded by colleague Majda Širca. Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u176	Your Honors are here! I'd be happy to pay you if I didn't know you and one and the other. Because the arguments that you are so citing are one and the other; those who support electoral legislation, that we do not live without this electoral legislation, that we will violate the constitution, that we will violate the constitutional decision, that we will lose the importance of elections, unless we accept it, and those who oppose that new-will legislation will destroy the provinces, destroy the representation of representatives across the constituencies and similar things - of course, things do not. There's only one truth. The truth is that political parties have made a very political decision. They calculated everything whether they were fit for electoral legislation or not to comply with electoral legislation. There's nothing else in the background. Unfortunately, this is happening, it has become a practice in Slovenian parliamentary work. In the previous term, we adopted electoral legislation at an extraordinary meeting in 2000. It was confirmed by those who feared, on the one hand, strong changes, or those who wanted to convince the public that they were in favour of a Constitutional Court decision. Today, the story is about the same. Those who confirm or are in favour of this electoral change have calculated that you want to have multiple votes for the same number of votes obtained in this National Assembly. Those of you who support this are just trying to get rid of others in this national council. Of course, it's easier to rule this country if someone has an even stronger government than they do. Although, in my opinion, you are incapable of ruling so badly with this power that you have. And I don't believe that any mandate along with you would give you anything better or easier to do. But if you allow, on behalf of the Group of Members, because I do not believe that I will come forward later, it is important to stress that there is indeed one great harm to this treatment, namely timeliness. We have a total of only six months until we enter the European Union. We have a lot of laws ahead of us, especially those that should protect the home economy, which should protect the Slovenian man. No! No! This is how the Minister of Education deals with electoral legislation! So the government of the Republic of Slovenia deals with electoral legislation and leaves aside, nothing to you, the most important topics in this country! If that's the way it is - I personally estimate it's not. Even if we leave the time component behind, so that time does not matter that we are fast in any way, as regards the adaptation of Slovenian European legislation, it is necessary to stress the quality component of this legislation. This morning we discussed a law we passed six months ago. This proves that this National Assembly does not adopt quality laws at all; however, for the content of laws, for the timeliness of laws, it is only important for the policy to sit here again in the next term to be stronger, and nothing else. I personally feel that this is a very, very sad position. I also personally assess that if anyone in this National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had a serious and fair intention to prepare such electoral legislation that would reflect all that you have in your mouth, both of you, would do so at the beginning of the term of office. Not to be fair to other fellow Members of Parliament or to potential candidates in elections, but to be fair to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in order to give them the opportunity and time to familiarise themselves with the electoral process and the electoral system. There is an existing, today's electoral system in this country, a hand to the heart, that few understand. Don't say that this system will be more understandable. No! No! The voter will get more than half in his hands and make decisions, including through the parties, possibly by name. In the National Party, we opposed the amendments to electoral legislation at the end of 2000, i.e. the end of the previous term. We did not support constitutional changes. I think we were the only political option in this national assembly, then a national assembly that disagreed with the change. Back then, we talked, we were under time pressure, why deal with ourselves. Turns out we're right. Today, with the same electoral legislation, you claim that if elections are held under the electoral legislation of that time, the legitimacy of these elections will be the greatest doubt. But this same argument was used three years ago by the Social Democrats. And what happened? Nothing at all. I'm sorry, but at the time, they were complaining or saying that the elections wouldn't be legitimate. Today, however, everyone is joyfully sitting in the national assembly when they saw that they came across the threshold and that they have this mandate as they have it. The same is true of course in this case with Liberal Democracy. No better, even worse. However, according to our assessment, we see a new trend emerging from the proposal. This is a trend or desire for some future cooperation; that is, during the Liberal Democracy on the one hand, either way, a party that does not recognise any other, and a very loyal companion, the Social Democrats, who, in my opinion, are also learning this very well. But, people, we have electoral legislation! Individual constituencies have their representatives in this National Assembly. We wanted to have local representation or territorial representation in this National Assembly, you wanted to set a threshold, we also have a threshold, we have everything in terms of elections. And it really sounds funny when I hear a representative here from one of the political parties, but if we don't adopt these proposals to amend the electoral legislation, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u177	No Controversy With Others [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u178	And that's not going to be constitutional. [[...]] This is not going to be constitutional, please. We always hear the argument: the Member is not bound to any instructions. All I want is to move on to the elections. If you are so fucking afraid that you will not get a fair number of mandates for your result, yes, the only advice and the only recipe is not to change electoral legislation: do better.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Let me just remind you that in the presentation of Peace in the Hall! [[....]] There is no controversy between the parliamentary groups when presenting the views of the groups. The position will now be presented by the parliamentary group or the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. My colleague Majda Shirca will do it on his behalf, then the general debate will begin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u180	Dear Government Representative! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we do not have excessive luck with the electoral system. In the short history of searching for the right one, we tried to find him at the referendum, and one of them even established a constitutional court, and we changed the constitution for him. Why? Because in 1992, when a compromise was sought between the advocates of the majority and the proportional system, so to speak, five minutes before the presenters, we certainly invented a unique system. In a way, there is a real compromise between the majority and the proportional, and that is why among the voters - and sometimes it seems to be among the candidates - to create an illusion, I underline the illusion that they are electing an MP from their constituency and that those in the constituency will be elected. Of course, this does not happen, in most cases there are candidates and candidates who have received fewer votes, sometimes those who have received the least. As a result, there is not much dilemma among electoral system knowers about the shortcomings of the current system. The desire for change has led to constitutional complications in relation to the electoral law, which we have heard several times, and we know that. As in 1992 there was also a measure of power between advocates of proportionality and majority. The power measurement ended with a change in the constitution. And at this point, the measurement of power then touches on the novels of the law that we are considering today. So when we talk about this law today, it is worth remembering that we did not get it on the table, because again someone does not like the applicable electoral law, but because we had to solve the referendum constitutional crisis in 2000 by changing the constitution. This amendment, however, raised a request for the National Assembly to amend the law on elections to the National Assembly. Because of what has been said today, it is difficult to understand the opposition, the reservations of those who doubt or oppose the amendment of this novel or the adoption of this novel. It is possible to understand that a number of us have concerns about individual provisions of the law, and even in the LDS there are. However, it is difficult to agree with those who are not in any way willing to support the law. It is difficult because they simply do not have the answer to the question of what they offer as a solution to the constitutional requirement for the decisive impact of voters on the granting of mandates. Of course, they can refer to the constitutional law as saying that it is possible to apply the law in force until a new law on elections is passed, as stated in the constitutional law. However, I would like to point out that the dictatorship until the adoption of the new law means that the constitution has made a request for the adoption of a new law before the National Assembly. Why? Since the law in force is not in line with the new provision of Article 80, we know that Article 80 speaks among others of a 4% threshold which is binding, of proportionality and of the decisive influence of the electorate. While it is possible to bear this by law a certain duty to the next reference to the National Assembly, it is possible and certainly not responsible. Those who may advocate this would be able to ask whether, in the new mandate, if the electorate gives it to them, they may either change their opinion and be prepared to support the amendment, or whether they may continue to question the need to harmonise the electoral law with the constitution. Some opponents often cite the proposed legal solutions as an argument against the proposed solutions offered by abolishing the constituencies. In the Liberal Democracy, we have said several times that we are ready to support another solution that would allow voters to choose between candidates and really decide who will be elected. But does it exist? The existence of constituencies allows voters to choose between candidates and thus to fulfil the constitutionally specific ones. In doing so, I reiterate that the electoral boundaries are the very root cause of the virtual fraud that was discussed at the outset. We would also like to reject the obvious fact that the abolition of electoral thefts eliminates the even representation of various parts of Slovenia in the National Assembly. The argument is, of course, that, on the other hand, we have a constitutional provision that cannot be fulfilled in any way but by the abolition of electoral thefts, otherwise irrelevant. However, it is important from a substantive point of view. It is therefore necessary to find solutions to address this deficiency. And in LDS, we are therefore prepared to agree to an increase in the number of constituencies, to a change in these units, so that we can, of course, address some of these concerns. Of course, it has magnification, every increase in the limit. And these are at the point where they would completely disprove the proportionality of the system. The proposals, which were also in circulation in 22 constituencies, which were heard several times, undoubtedly go through this point. To sum up this part of my implementation, let me conclude by stating that even in the current system, the uniform representation of all parts of Slovenia is not as consistent as it sometimes wants to be displayed. In 2000, there were 17 electoral robberies that did not receive their MP. 17! The law submitted by the Government is, of course, at second reading and can be complemented, corrected and improved in the second reading. As we are aware that 60 votes are required for any change and for the final vote, I will only raise questions, but not solutions that will require a final consensus. Only questions because any firm insistence on individual parliamentary groups in purely defined solutions can prevent the adoption of law. And one such issue is, of course, the number of electoral units already mentioned, and the other is the question of the division of mandates or the division of mandates at national level. If we introduce a different sized electoral unit, the issue of this division is no longer as simple as if the electoral units are large. Then there is the question of the preferred voice, repeatedly highlighted by the preferred voice. An absolute preferential vote can have unpredictable effects in the event that only an extremely small number of voters give their preference. In addition, the imperial coefficient can lead to so-called surplus mandates, which will have to be resolved in the second reading if we decide to increase the number of electoral units. I also point out the traps hidden by the absolute preferential voice as inconvenient for the emancipation of a greater proportion of women. In general, on the fact that almost 90% of Members and Members supported the amendment of Articles 44 and 43 of the Constitution, I have no doubt that concerns about these solutions will present a major problem. In the second reading, we certainly have a lot of work to do, of course only if we decide today to bring the election law into line with article 80 of the Constitution. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we want to harmonise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thus, we have presented the views of the groups of Members. We will now begin the general debate. He'll be the first to get his word if he wants it, Comrade Petty Officer. [[No, no, ……]] I also have a lot of log-outs, so please be careful. I'll go from the announcement to the announcement. My friend Kebrich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. No extra labels, all hailed! I speak for myself, and for a simple reason, because I am against any change, because we stress that the existing law is not contrary to the Constitution, and all the arguments to the Constitution are irrelevant. The other thing is, who wants it and why wants to change the electoral system? He wants to change it simply because of the prospect of greater electoral success in the next election from the new law. Fortunately, we have built in the need for a two-thirds majority, because if that were not the case, by a simple majority of 50%, every government in power would simply change as it would fit for the next elections. Why do they change certain customers? Not because of the voters, it's the sand in our eyes, "we'll get closer to the fans." No, I don't know the politics, and the leaders of a party, to make a change for the voters, will get fewer votes. So stupid - excuse the expression! - I guess it's nobody. It is said that now those who would like to gather 60 who are more promising than that. But on whose account will they get those votes more: at the expense of three small parties, which we have only four Members, it is said that twelve new mandates will be available for distribution to those who promise more. On the other hand, those parties who have, say, eight or more, purely practical, not theoretically, on average one would be elected in each constituency. It is said that they have such a calculation and now they bring to the small door what the Constitutional Court has denied is not a national document. Because those who are first on the list, if there is no more absolute preferential voice, what are the predictions, will simply be chosen by those whom the party wanted, who are most faithful, most convincing, most deserving, put in the first place, and everyone else can take pictures - or paint. The question is that it is the interest of the party first to obtain multiple mandates with the new electoral system, and secondly, it confronts the interests of our current Members; who is the one who wants to run again, what the new system brings to him or what the party's leadership provides by putting him at the forefront. If he has an interest and depends on the policy whether he is elected again or not, he will have to remove himself from the great leaders of the parties, for they speak to you once, if they have the decisions of their authorities, they will say: you respect the conclusions of our authorities. But if they do not correspond to these great leaders of the blind, they say, "Dear Members, you have the right to vote in the Constitution as you wish." Look, you're a duplicity. Consider the proposal's intention to simplify this proposal, which you can turn to in one way or another. So that we can be lured to defend others, we can come with amendments. And if I listened today because I can't polymise, I heard that one of them was going to make these different proposals. It's not polymizing, but it's a fact. But what proposal will be adopted? The proposal, which will be taken care of by such or other political inclinations of the majority, will be adopted, saying 60 votes. As my fellow Member will speak, I will cut it short for the following. Listen, the preferred voice is the one who would really approach this, but that's not what you're playing at all. I submit that this proposal has been made on purpose by destroying small parties that do not have such prominent personalities as ministers and, what, second and third, who could win enough votes in the entire electoral unit to exceed that threshold. Look, this bill has nine pages and then the rest. But no one wanted to tell us by now what would happen if we had electoral ballots, because under this law and according to the law, everything must be written. Or are we going to have a calendar form -- not 12 leaves, like 12 months, maybe 30, maybe 40? Will we have a sheet that'll be at least 1 meter long and you'll have to have a magnifying glass to find that one? And what the voters are going to say-- Franchek, I'm going to vote for you because you're the honestest, I know you the most. But they won't tell those Frenchmen and Micke who they're in, because maybe that client doesn't fit, but he would still vote for him. Where is he going to find it on this sheet or on this calendar? This is so misleading, it's so sand in the eyes of voters that they would be for what is now to be proposed. Yes, that's all I'm saying. The coalition treaty has nothing to do with us having to vote like that. We are all in the coalition treaty, and we respect that, we have committed ourselves to starting the debate. This debate will immediately show that it is not good to amend electoral legislation in the last year. That's why we're going to be raped today, let's accept this, and we're going to be saving in the second, third reading, if we're going to spend six hours today or more hours late in the night, or maybe even in the morning, on the other hand, at the second reading -- so many hours again, and in the third reading. Would it not be a time of rejection, because there is no reason for either the constitutional or any other to change this to the benefit of the electorate, but it wants to change to the benefit of the large parties at the expense of the smaller parties, as well as those who think today, who have 8 or 9 seats in this term, maybe 10 seats, whether they will keep them under the new electoral system or not. If they don't, if they were doing simulations, how would they, in what variants this would be, come to a conclusion and suddenly they'll say no, and now we're not doing it anymore, even though we initially supported it. When other questions are raised when no one has a guarantee of what will happen in the second reading: will those amendments that predict that they will fit for the party and vote under those conditions, they will not be accepted, and others will be accepted. At the end, 60 votes will be taken and what is proposed will be accepted, which I say is very bad. Bad for customers, bad for those party members who are idealists who did not come from personal benefit or from such or other promising privileges - which I also proved yesterday in my debate and I will prove on Friday on the following agenda when the point for supplementary pension insurance will be. I prove that it is always directed in a certain direction, that it is a certain authority or that it thinks it has, but perhaps it does not have, the greatest authority, and above all it is bait for those who will not now vote fairly for what we have proposed in the next term, if it comes to Parliament, there is no longer any prospect of taking it into a position, a coalition. This image of the opposition, it can strike, it can speak freely, it will achieve nothing, because the coalition will be chosen again so that it will have the same majority and others - even if they were accidentally taken along - they will only be the fifth round for such and other votes, and even if they do not, they will be against, they will not achieve anything. I believe that today it is our responsibility, this responsibility to reject and save all those debates, all those thoughts, deepening into this system. This proposal is so loose, and I repeat, but I underline that there are so many open, unresolved things that are difficult at some point in time with all the theoretical knowledge, and with the practical experience of the elections that we have already experienced and survived, and we have changed, and we have not changed, we are coming back to what will be best for anyone, so it will vote, and even if it is not voted, and then it will be pushed over the head. I think it is right that I leave enough time for my colleague, who also wants to say something, because democracy is in place in our democratic group of DeSUS Members. That is why we have not come forward with any opinion, but without the fact that it will be possible for all four of us to vote equally. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u183	Please. My friend Janš? No, no, no. A colleague of Contics? No, no, no. Comrade Companion? Comrade Kangler, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. I am very pleased to hear my fellow Member, Mr Kebrich, who has so eagerly deepened into this electoral legislation that we have today in the National Assembly. In the introduction, our representative of the Group announced that we would reject such a proposal from the Slovenian People's Party. We have rejected such a proposal because we have opinions and my personal opinion is that we currently have a very good and appropriate electoral system that ensures the even distribution of electoral mandates across Slovenia. Once again, the existing electoral system ensures a uniform distribution of electoral thefts and mandates throughout the Republic of Slovenia. It is true, as one of the speakers on behalf of the Group of Members did, that it happens that they do not have their own representative in the constituency or are elected by two. However, the applicant has not clearly defined whether he supports an absolute preferential vote. He went to the option of an absolute preferential vote that you have the opportunity to surround the candidate on the list or the entire list and then those votes will be distributed to all candidates on the list. None of these proposals were taken into account within the political parties of speculation. Speculation that ten candidates will be concentrated from one area in one election unit and another candidate from five times the size of the area. Those ten candidates will pick up the votes, and the 11th will draw the majority. Or the opposite speculation: that the party will lead the electoral campaign in such a way as to promote the list and call voters to give their vote to the candidate list, although the second option is a mandatory absolute preferential vote. However, the danger is that the political party will make such propaganda, that the voters will in fact devote their vote to the list of candidates, that these votes that the candidates or the list will receive will be evenly divided into eleven candidates, and then one family, or one local community, or the village community, or one branch of relatives will elect a representative of the people from that electoral unit. That's possible. Practically and theoretically, this is possible under this proposal from the government. That's possible, given that we have eight constituency units. And if I compare, say, the Premur electoral unit based on Ptuj, that one political option or political party now does not have its own MP from the Murska Sobota or from that environment, then it will happen that all ten candidates, as I have previously ordered, will have from Ormož, from Ptuj, Lenart, Destrnik, Radgone, in this way ensure that these candidates collect votes among themselves and leave the majority to that electoral body that collects political options to pick up in Murski Sobota. I don't know what the problem is with the existing electoral system. Given who is proposing and who is behind this electoral system, it is my view that this is one step towards the even greater centralisation that we have in this country. Why? No one will convince me that the judicial and executive branch of power is not too focused on one place. The only branch of power in this country that is not concentrated and centralised is the legislative branch of the government, where each of its constituencies has almost more or less of its own representatives in this house. If this is the way that representatives want to change the electoral system, I am sure that of all these cities that I will now count, respected fellow Members and colleagues, only a few will receive an impressive environmental mandate. Whether we are watching Kočevje or Velenje, or Ljutomer or Ormož, Slovensko Bistrica, Lenart, Slovenske Konjice, Brežice, Trbovlje, Zagorje, Idrija - and could also mention that we are not talking about Gorenjska. Is it true that these thefts that I have now numbered must not have their representatives? They will be able to run for office - of course they will be able to run for office, but given the number of voters in that given environment, they do not have the opportunity to do so after the absolute preferential vote and after the combination proposed by the government, rather than the one coming from the largest centre. There's another big fear. According to the government's proposal, if it appears on 11 candidates' list, there will be a problem within the political party how to run a campaign within the electoral unit. It is normal for any candidate now running in his constituency, if abolished, to run the entire campaign in the entire electoral unit. And by doing so, honourable Members, we will cause a real mess between the electorate. Instead of 20 or 25 candidates who are now running in one constituency, we're multiplying it by 11, it's going to be 250 candidates who will run within the constituency. And people will have to choose their candidate out of 250 candidates! And colleague Kebrich was right, it's not a calendar, it's more than a calendar. The calendar only has 12 pages, 12 months. This is where 250 candidates within the constituency will appear. And if each of these 250 candidates is sent by households, or in some environment to the household, or by voters, then Slovenian voters really don't know what they're up to. That 250 candidates are urged to give their vote to one of those on the list of 250 candidates. And that's a serious problem. However, when it comes to the constituency, it is about 20 to 25 candidates, where people can decide proportionally on those candidates to whom they will leave their voices to. He's a very important domicil. My opinion was that it was a very important trait, although some legal experts said it was contrary to the Constitution, and that is not true. That's not true. We can write in the law that the candidate candidate in the electoral unit has permanent residence in the electoral unit, while the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have permanent residence abroad can run anywhere in the electoral unit in the Republic of Slovenia. We have solved this problem and this problem is solved so that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia can run. Even those abroad who have a permanent place abroad. But there's a problem somewhere else. The adoption of electoral legislation is a political issue. This is no longer a professional question, given that we have a well-designed electoral law. It's a political issue. Some would probably please domicilism, but some would not, because it has good candidates from one of the largest centres, then become candidates through a system such as the government proposes for leaf bearers, for leaf bearers, and those who will be leaf bearers will collect votes. And then in Prekmurje, the Styrians, the Korošci, or the Primors, or the Dolenjians, or the Gorenjeks, they collect the mandate and destroy this balance that we have today in this national assembly. And we are witnessing a new centralisation of the third branch of power or the legislative branch of power. And that's what's gonna happen. Perhaps not in the next term, after this mandate, in two periods, this would certainly have happened to witness the greatest centralisation. In recent times, electoral units have also appeared. That the proposer is thinking of going to 14 constituencies, in principle from 1990, DPS. Take your time, look who and how he was elected to the DPS at the time, and where he comes from. And you can tell me that I'm right that it was pure centralization. Look at the relationship. I was very surprised to hear - or else this list of these constituencies did not come to me - that those constituencies were going along those boundaries that they used to be. And the same problem is in elections to the state council, where we have electoral votes. Let the municipality of Ruše never have its own national councilman, because those who have drawn the electoral unit for the election of a representative of the local community, Slovensko Bistrica and through Pohorje past Maribor with the Russians, by the number of people who belong to them on the number of inhabitants of the electorate vote, can never have their own representative in the state world. That's why I find this unfair and unfair. The same will happen if, as I have heard, we round up these electoral units, which are not natural and do not belong together naturally. As far as election committees are concerned. Dear Members and Members, it is fairest and most democratic that political parties running for elections to the National Assembly have their members both in the electoral commissions in the constituency, in the electoral committees, as in the constituencies, their confidants and their representatives, who control and ensure the identity of all those who have come there, and those votes and minutes that have been made at the end of the elections to the National Assembly. And it is not to be taken into account that someone, in a way that the law states that they are civil servants, either on the left or on the right, will speculate after elections that elections have been falsified, abused in one way or another. In this way, we ensure that each of our political parties has the right to propose to each commission, and this ensures a real identity. I would understand the proposer to speak only of an absolute preferred vote. It's just an absolute preferential voice. However, this exchange, once the vote of the list, once the vote of the candidate, proportional division - believe me, will bring in the Slovenian political space of candidacy in such speculations as I have just stated. For these reasons, I am not prepared to support the Government's proposal. The government's proposal, I believe, is the most powerful government party, although I am surprised by some of the coalition partner's moves to negotiate both the electoral units, the electoral system, the threshold and more. We, who are members of this coalition, at least for the time being, learn from the media. It's not a correctional relationship. This is not a problem if one party or two or individuals who oppose the amendment of electoral legislation - this is a coalition relationship. And such problems that we have heard today should first be solved within the coalition, but not that before the coalition presidents meet, the Prime Minister of the Jug to Members: such an electoral system will be adopted, none other. That is why, at the time, me and my fellow Member, Rokavec, in protest of initiating the general debate, introduced in the National Assembly a law on elections to the National Assembly in the sense of ensuring a residence within the constituency. For these reasons, which I have just stated, my honourable fellow Members and colleagues, my vote will not be cast. No, it won't, just because of that. The second reason is this: the last year or the last months before the elections, the electoral legislation does not change. He's not changing! The coalition should resolve this problem in the first year, so that those in Parliament and those outside Parliament can be democratically and constitutionally prepared for elections to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. I'm a colleague of mine. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Of course, one always wonders when such a darkness is ahead of us, why we do it at all. And among the answers to why the question of the constitutionality of the current electoral system has been put first today, given the commitment we made in changing the constitution before the previous elections. There's probably a lot of other reasons, I'm sure. Some can be predicted; therefore, those who think that after the current electoral system have not achieved enough results and expect a change of the better. It is also one of the questions in the answer that individual areas in Slovenia that have not yet received a Member with this electoral system are pressing that the law should be changed and regulated to the extent that these grey foxes would be an exception to the future or that they would no longer be. I come from such a constituency where we have, for example, as a traditional area without a MP Novo mesto. However, the question, of course, is whether the electoral system alone is to blame for not having a specific area as a member, or whether it is another one. For we know that on how many Members and whose Members are elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in addition to the electoral system, it is also important how a party works in a particular area and what kind of people he recruits. And it's not just the electoral system that doesn't have an MP in some area. The question of which electoral system is the question: whether the current one we have or the one in front of us or another is different. Here, too, I hope to say that there is no electoral system that is good, which is equally fair for all and by which it is easy to win. All of us in here have been at least once, twice and repeatedly in elections and through various electoral systems, because we have also run in local communities. There is no electoral system that is absolutely and definitively fair for all, and there is no electoral system that can easily and without problems win. Therefore, of course, in my opinion, the only serious and only criterion is the need to change the law, namely, the constitutional obligation. Then everything else is questionable. For us, for liberal democracy, the question is why to change, because the electoral success of the old system or the system in force is good enough to make it worth repeating. This will require a lot of political wisdom within parliamentary parties and Members so that, on the basis of what we have before us, in the second and third readings, we can really adopt an electoral law. However, I suppose it will be adopted in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u187	Comrade Jelinčič - no, colleague Bernik - no, colleague Pohorec - no. Excuse me? Can I help you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Completely relaxed and without any burden, I will talk about what I am thinking and how I am looking at the matter, how others have also taught me in those matters that have more experience and knowledge around the elections. If I'm not here tomorrow, I live, I don't depend on being a member of the National Assembly anymore, so I don't have that burden for this or that option. I fully agree with the opinion already expressed: in the electoral year, do not change the legislation. Elections have begun. Elections are under way. You're watching Tarcho, you're watching Trenja, you're looking at Omisia, you're looking at debates here, you're making different laws, you're talking a lot about how we're for regional development, how we are for what, for the third, for the fourth. This is an election. All of us can make three or four laws tomorrow, when we say: We promise this to the people, we promise the people that, and then the elections are over, and we can't make it happen anyway. It's not good. But we had three years. In the coalition treaty, we have indeed written down that we will start a debate and we are already discussing, we are implementing a coalition treaty with this - because we have not written anything else. Literally, if I were too much, I would say, paragraphly, as it also says here, we now have the principle of equal representation of all the provinces of the Republic of Slovenia in this national assembly, based on the current electoral system. From each constituency, the same number of Members and electoral units are at least quite the same as the number of inhabitants. We're gonna break this thing down with any change. And perhaps I can interpret it in my own way, the lawyers will say otherwise, whether we are not really implementing article 80 of the Constitution, by which voters should have the decisive option of having an impact on the choice of candidate. What are the elections? Each of the voters, when they see in the election campaign who's running for office, already knows who he's going to give his vote to. That's great. I'll vote for that one, the third one. And no matter where the majority of the electorate is, no matter what the list is, red, green, blue, or blue, black or other color, I will choose the name and surname of this and that, because I trust him, and if it's in this, or the other, or the third party. Most people, or many people, think that way. And there are 8 of us in Parliament, at least twice as many registered, I think there are 22 parties. If everyone goes to the polls, there's 22 ballots. And in one constituency, 22 names can theoretically be as possible. We put them in one list, we have 22 people to choose from. Can't people choose one of those 22s? I think you can. The President of the country had to have eight candidates. I think it was eight. One was eventually elected. But we had a choice of eight. Here we're going to have at least 8 in the National Assembly in every constituency, let's say, I'm sure at least 8 because there are so many customers and at least 5 more, and that's 13. Of the 13 people to choose one good one, I don't think it's a problem. It is also, by this system, if I think about it a little bit, about what Article 80 of the Constitution speaks of, too, enough. Free choice. Preferential voice. It would be introduced for the first time without experience in this field. Our voters, especially in the countryside, the elderly, the ill-lettered and so on, will not be able to make good use of this preferential voice and will play a completely party policy role as to who should be elected. Even after the system of distribution then those voices where the voice will only get the list will be distributed, and probably many will be disappointed after the elections, "Yes, but we thought we would elect it, and now this one is elected". There are also many open questions on how to resolve this. It would be difficult to say about electronic voting that it belongs here today. I am alone for this way to be in perspective; time goes on. But 25, 30% of our country's population is still -- we know where to control this new technique. I am sure that people today who are 65 years old and 70 years old have, of course, the right to vote have been doing their homework at candlelight, or at least in the countryside, that was the time. And today he doesn't even hope for a computer to sit down, let alone give an electronic voice. So this is a matter for the future, not for the next election. But I'm also in a dilemma about how to make a decision. The coalition contract is one, the constitution of the other, which I think we can also fulfil in this way, the Executive Committee of the third party. And last time I asked my president what was going on with my client, I didn't get an answer. That's why I can't give it now how I'm going to decide - by my conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you, Comrade Pohorec. Comrade Sushinik. [[He doesn't want to.]] Buddy Bevk. [[He doesn't want to.]] Instead of a colleague of Kangler's, a colleague of Rokavec, you don't have a word for it, do you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Perhaps in this discussion I would have touched on a few more questions or points I mentioned earlier in the presentation, but in more detail. In fact, the change in the electoral system will, in my opinion, substantially change the structure of representation in the National Assembly. In particular, in terms of the structure of the representation of individual areas, in particular the relationship between the representation of major cities, Members from larger cities and Members from smaller, medium-sized cities and rural areas. This structure is now about 60 to 40, in fact in favour of small towns, middle towns and rural areas. The proposed proposal will certainly make this relationship worse, make it worse in a negative direction. If it gets worse in a negative direction, we know that decisions and ways of thinking about the individual problems that certain environments deal with and deal with will also be different. The second question I think is also the question of the abolition of election thefts. Now, the party in each constituency, which covers approximately certain areas, has to agree that the ratio between the number of people in each constituency is significantly too high and that there is a need to look for changes and solutions here in the larger equally approximate size of the electoral districts also by the number of inhabitants. But it's another question. The question is also that it forces this electoral system, the existing electoral system, the parties to submit their candidates and to seek out more or less candidates from those electoral thefts. This is also an important, certainly only positive feature of the existing electoral system. The proposed system with eight constituencies would, of course, do significantly less work for the parties, especially looking for sound names, and significantly less work to ensure that the area is approximately evenly represented. They don't do business now either. They have the opportunity to send someone, for example, from Ljubljana to Koper. Theoretically, this is possible because we have no domain. And I'm sure such an arrangement isn't right for him to have no domain. However, more or less the existing electoral system forces the party to find candidates who also have permanent residence in that constituency. There was a lot of talk today about the fairness of elections. Surely every electoral system at the end is a reflection of a political decision, a political decision of a majority in the National Assembly. On the one hand, however, talking about the fairness of elections and on the other hand talking about increasing the electoral threshold, for example from 4% to 6%, does not go along with the principle of justice. If we were to seek the principle of justice, we should say: a party who reaches a percentage of the votes for his or her term has the right to obtain his or her Member in the National Assembly. We know that then this National Assembly would be even more diverse, that there would probably be more parties in the National Assembly and even more difficult to coordinate and create coalitions. However, the fact is that if on the one hand we demand fair elections, then we must seek and be consistent to the end. And here we probably won't get to the end of this election system, but we're at least trying to get closer. Secondly, the issue is the dilemma of an absolute preferred voice. If an absolute preferential vote is introduced, then it is true, of course, that the elector has the possibility that we vote for someone on the same list, not for the list. That's, in my opinion, an absolute preferential voice. Then, of course, it is actually guaranteed to the electorate - it would be guaranteed, but this bill does not guarantee this - it is solely the authority to choose who will sit in Parliament and represent them. Of course, it takes away the responsibility of the parties. And even so far, there have been so many hints about various speculations about this proposal of the electoral system that I personally do not believe that there would be an absolute preferred vote in the end. However, if we introduce an absolute preferential vote, then we are going towards the options that we pointed out a week ago, the amendment of Article 44 of the Constitution, where we would strive for a more equal representation of both sexes in Parliament, which is another extreme. And I do not see a solution, the solution is better in the existing system, because the party can put a candidate for a Member on the constituency in question. And if this is a better electoral body, it also has a better chance, a candidate for an MP, that she is also elected to the National Assembly. Now all responsibility lies with political parties. The next question is the election campaign. With such a bill, candidates within the same name list will go within the party to fight the election as well. I don't know if that makes any sense. The most questionable thing is how the electorate will get on the voter. That's what my colleague, Kebrich, said very vividly. But there's only one case. At least what we had so far in the National Assembly, I think there were about 15, 14, 15, and if there are eight constituencies, there are 15 sheets of 11 candidates. A voter, when he comes to the polls like this, he'll have to decide between 166 names. Yes, if we're going to provide between 166 names on the ballot. Here we must first find out if we want to ensure transparency so that a very large so-called "voluntary sheet" where the electorate can read the name and surname of the candidate under each list. However, if the candidates are not written on the list, this proposal is even more inappropriate for them to circle and place squares or numbers in a particular space designed for this purpose on the ballot. I am so sure that the proposed electoral system creates a very high degree of transparency on the voter, a major change for the individual electorate, and therefore a very high probability of an even greater number of invalid votes. Because confusion can be significantly greater than in the existing electoral system. And now there's something in the end about the constitutionality of the electoral system. That electoral system is in place. In 2000, when there was a talk on constitutional change in this area, no one mentioned that by changing the constitution we were abolishing the constituencies. This is where there was a clever reason for the word relationship 'proportional representation', which also means the abolition of election thefts. Which is not true. Proportional representation is greater if the constituencies remain, as if deleted, and 8 or 14 constituencies are established. This is just a few more thoughts that the proposed proposal is not appropriate, and it is even more inappropriate that we change it during the electoral year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you, Comrade Rokavec. Anton Butolen wants to discuss it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Elections to the National Assembly are certainly the most important elections in the country. It is therefore understandable that there is a great deal of interest not only in politics but also in the public for changes in electoral legislation. Nevertheless, we risk assessing that at least among voters it is less known that the composition of the National Assembly depends not only on their will and the number of votes cast, but also on the complex electoral mathematics, which decides how the votes cast turn into the mandates of the parties and individuals. The formation of electoral units, so far also the thefts, the electoral threshold, the way in which the mandates are shared in the electoral unit, and the way in which the remainders of the votes are divided, not only do they decide how many Members a party will have, but also which of these Members will come from, and also what areas these Members will come from. If the first two figures are more important for political parties, i.e. the number of Members and the name of Members, the fact that they come from is also important for voters. As far as the current relatively good regional dispersion of the sent-out mandates is concerned, the differences between the Slovenian statistical regions are increasing. I therefore hope that these differences will increase even more rapidly with the possible concentration of members from urban settlements. Therefore, the key question raised by voters is whether the new electoral legislation will be so strong that candidates from larger settlements or cities will be preferred. The current legislation, which has divided Slovenia into 8 constituencies and 88 robberies, has given voters at least a visual message that they have a decisive impact on the election of a Member. Apparently, I'm saying because I hope that at least here we all know that winning in the constituency didn't mean much. Many winners of electoral thefts do not sit in this House. There are people in Parliament who have reached 600 seats in their district, and those 5 who have been given more votes by the electorate are not here. This fact has also been difficult for people to accept. There are no Members from some of the districts, but there are several Members from some of the districts, and there have been no Members of Parliament from some of the districts, in particular from the province from which it comes, for ten years there has been no Member. Without exaggeration, I can therefore conclude that the existing electoral law also has a number of shortcomings, particularly with regard to the impact of voters on the election of individuals, which is the fundamental right of every electorate. On the other hand, I note that despite the shortcomings of the existing electoral law, it allows for a relatively good representation of all parts of the country in Parliament, which, as I have already pointed out, is extremely important. The key question for me is therefore whether the new law will allow for a greater voter's influence on the election of Members and, at the same time, continue to allow for a relatively good regional dispersion of approved mandates. If the answer to this question is yes, the new legislation is prudent in adopting, if the answer is 'no', it makes no sense to amend legislation, but it can also be harmful. The proposed amendments to the law have a greater impact on the voter's election. However, with regard to the regional dispersion of mandates, I can say that, on the basis of the results of the 2000 elections, I have recalculated into new legislation and found that there would be changes in the names of Members and that the regional dispersion of approved mandates would not significantly change, but provided that the candidate can only be one who has permanent residence in the constituency. That is why I will support the first reading of electoral legislation. However, I would point out that electoral mathematics is so sensitive that any change in one parameter, i.e. the change in the electoral unit, the electoral threshold, the preferences, the division of mandates in the electoral unit and the remainder, in the second or third reading, would substantially change the result, so my support for the law in the first reading does not mean that I will vote in the second and third readings as well, but I will decide on the consequences of any amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Let's move on. There's no colleague of Lavrich's. My friend Sok? No, no, no. You want a word with my friend Brac? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u194	I would just like to conclude that we have heard today in the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party in their positions that it is not wise to change electoral legislation during the electoral year, it is said, about a year before the elections. However, I would like to remind you that in 2000 it was the People's Party that was very committed to modifying electoral legislation three months before the elections. I'm very surprised at such views. I think that the constitution that the constitutional law of all of us Members of the National Assembly and Members of Parliament has somehow made a serious demand that we should adopt such electoral legislation that will bring the power of the electorate closer to its impact on the actual result. Thus, we must try to ensure that, however, the electoral legislation provides greater opportunities for Members to be elected, in accordance with expectations or electoral votes. Now we have a chance to do this. If not otherwise, we must adopt electoral legislation that will go in the direction that the constitutional law requires. Therefore, such statements surprise me and grieve me in their own way because they point to some practice when the Constitution is not respected. When constitutional law is not respected. We have every opportunity to face arguments in the second reading and say: no, we will not accept these solutions. However, to block the possibility of confronting opinions on the various solutions to the election arrangements in the National Assembly at the very beginning, this seems a little excessive to me not to say immorally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u195	All right, let's move on. Colleague of Purgatory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The questions raised in the context of the proposed amendments to electoral legislation are numerous, but I want to focus on a single issue. However, I stand for it, with the assurances of the bill's proponents and the complementary explanation, that the proposed amendments guarantee more democratic elections, because the direct will of the electorate in these elections will be stronger, more pronounced. I am interested in what amended electoral legislation means from the standpoint of the application of equal opportunities. If I come out and accept the thesis that civilisation is a norm, that equal opportunities are proof of a society's greater democracy. Given the representation of women in decision-making processes, if the criterion is the proportion of elected Members in the national Parliament, Slovenia is among those countries that will join the European Union, which do not reach even the average, slightly above 14%, as a known percentage of women's representation. Well, and if I come from this repeated fact that at least 30% of women need to be reached in order to have a greater impact on decision-making, this is, of course, a relevant question that I am asking simply because I think we cannot talk about the equal influence of both sexes in our society. Who has set the stage for how subtlely he has also thought about this issue is clear from the solutions proposed. I am not saying that I will not support the proposed law in the first reading, because it is simply impossible to be against the fact that they assure you that in fact you are allowing the will of the electorate to come into effect. But all of us who work in politics depend on this will. However, I would expect that at the time of the second reading of the law, however, there will be ways to mitigate the negative effects that an absolute preferential voice or a different kind of preferential voice may have, because it is possible to have a negative experience from those countries which, of course, may have different electoral systems, but have a significantly higher percentage of women represented in national parliaments, and we in Rome at the recent 8th Conference of the Parliamentary Committees on Equal Opportunities and Human Rights have been able to read among others also recommendations to governments and parliaments, both Member States and associate Member States, however, to try to introduce such measures into the electoral system, which would ensure greater gender balance in decision-making processes, and it is specifically mentioned here that the preferred vote is one that is on the way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Comrade Trofenik - no, colleague Juban - no, colleague Pece - also no, Majda Zupan - no, colleague Tsukati - no, colleague Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. In my view, it is a key contradiction to the abolition by the adoption of a constitutional law by which we have abolished the national lists and thus actually made it possible to personalise the elections. Everything else that we are trying to listen to today is groundless or if I do some analysis of all the ideas that have been given from the debate, there is an enormous amount of work to be done by those who will try to bring all these ideas into a form that will be such that the law will not become unconstitutional again. Above all, a very large question arises what happens when an absolute preferential voice is lifted. Then what status will these lists have? Won't they get too close to the previous national charter and so on? This is just one of the issues that actually emerges and has been transmitted from all these opinions. I think it will be very difficult in this short time available to harmonise all these interests and, of course, also to enter them into the law itself. However, I would point out the following fact that we have been warning somehow all the time that we must not allow too much centralisation, but the fact is that with the entry into the European Union the government will have very great powers, Parliament will also lose its powers to a large extent, and I am adding to all of this thinking how we should organise ourselves in the future, another idea. Why should Parliament not become some kind of regional parliament, where representatives from the regions would be represented and thus perhaps eliminate the dilemma that we are solving so painfully, of course, by establishing the provinces. Therefore, to change the way Parliament operates in order to ensure regional representation, thereby mitigating the even greater centralisation created by the greater powers of the government, probably also to underestimate the system of action of the country and probably to approach some of the optimal solutions that we need in Slovenia in order to ensure that the country is guided in the most rational way and that, of course, regional representation is quite satisfactory. I also believe that it will be extremely difficult for electoral units to present themselves to all voters, because electoral units are extremely large, even if 14 are, and before every candidate is able to present themselves in this electoral unit, it seems to me that the electoral campaign is likely to run out of time, and that we are probably moving away from the principle that people should only decide on the basis of the programme or the conviction that the candidate is making the election. So here really is a whole series of questions that I think are very difficult to resolve in such a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u199	Come in. colleague Brenčič - no, colleague Jakič - no, colleague Tisovic - no, colleague Jerovšek - no, colleague Potrč - no. My friend onion's not either. My friend Kacin's not here. There's no Comrade Bayuk. My friend Puksich's not here. My friend Kramberger - not at all. My friend Kremjar, no. My friend Mamić, no. Comrade Cimperman, no. Comrade Fabian, no. Comrade Lavrinc, no. My friend Christmas, no. Comrade Marshich, no. My friend Marshich. Before I give you my word, just a warning, especially to those who are not in the hall. It is quite clear that we will conclude the debate substantially sooner than anticipated, because it is a qualified two-thirds majority, it is very important to know that we will therefore start to make decisions 15 minutes after the end of this hearing, and I ask all colleagues and colleagues to pay attention to this. Now, my friend Marshich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Mr. President. Unlike my colleagues, I'm actually going to focus on just one point. That is the possibility of electronic voting. While something was said in the introductory debate, not much further. The fact is that we are living in the age of modern technology and that our country, as well as political encounters, must face and adapt to it. Today, it is almost no longer a policy, but a political party that does not represent its views on the websites. Three years ago, more or less, we all stood up for an information society. Our country is going this way, and it's going fast. The proposed law also takes into account these modern information solutions that are being introduced, not only in Slovenian public administration, but also in society as a whole. It thus provided for the possibility of an electronic way of voting, which will also have many advantages for the voting of citizens living, as also stated in the explanatory memorandum, abroad, and in the light of the existing diplomatic network, our republics are large to electorate and to individual representations. But it also has other advantages. I personally assess that there will be greater opportunities for participation in the elections and greater opportunity for actual electoral participation. The quality of the electoral process itself can also be improved. I am convinced that, above all, young people are vulnerable to new approaches. There is probably no political option either, or a policy that does not want the votes of young voters as well. Some estimates say that while young people are less and less interested in politics, they choose to go to voters. I think that this is one approach that could make young people more frequent or in large numbers decide to give their voice, and of course in the way that they are closest to them. However, I am aware that this project is demanding. It is necessary to ensure the transparency of such a vote, while anonymity for the electorate, anonymity as the basis for democratic elections, and must prevent this way of voting from any form of abuse. Therefore, a transitional period or trial period is necessary, in my opinion, either by pilot projects or by less demanding votes, either at one of the upcoming referendums or at the next local elections. The fear of abuse is, in my opinion, superfluous. As my interlocutor wrote on a popular portal where I launched this debate on this form of voting, most of the people who have come forward and advertised for such solutions have been positive to such solutions. Above all, one of these said that the encrytic algorithms are so strong today that if you want to change results in real time, you have to have money like our national annual budget for the military. It means that that fear of the river Stalin gave doesn't matter who votes, but who counts the votes would not come into force in this case. The "on-line" elections are a future that cannot be avoided, so it is necessary to prepare for them as soon as possible. I trust them with the same or even more than a simple vote, where the poor chemical pencils, hidden writings or disputed ballots and any lobby in which the electoral committee can do probably something that the electronic vote would not be able to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u201	Thank you, Comrade Marshich. Let's move on. Comrade Malovar is not here. Comrade Puck is not here. Comrade Rokavec has already spoken. Shirtz's colleague? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u202	Thank you. My colleague Rokavec spoke and would have a comment on the implementation of Mr Rokavac. In fact, it was said that Franc Rokavec cited as one of the reasons why their client would not support the law, including the fact that in the proposal we have before us there is no solution that would oblige the creation of candidate lists in a way that should be in a certain or defined proportion of women in an appropriate number. I am certainly pleased with this client’s concern, and I also understand it in the context of its newly defined power. It is, of course, cynical if its argument goes in the direction when, if it does not, we will not support this law because such alibis are somehow depressed. It is true, or I understand, that the government has waited and that even a week ago, the almost voted amendment of the Constitution somehow received guidance for the formation of a law in a different direction or a complementary direction. Why were we so unanimous in our decision to reach out to article 44 of the Constitution? Because we know that the principle of equality guaranteed by the Constitution must not prevent the introduction of a special benefit to the benefit of the sex represented in a smaller number. That's a fact. And that the number is small, says every statistic, even the view of this national assembly, where women are really few. Most of us are usually at a time when discussions are taking place in this assembly, such as at this moment. And almost 90% of the Members and Members present supported last week's constitutional change. In France, Belgium, Portugal and 10 days ago Italy, we are the fifth country to succeed or, I suppose, to succeed in the final stage. When we told Members and Members in the European Parliament, or within the network and within the European Parliament's Committee on Equal Opportunities, they literally took a breath of breath, because few of them looked under the forehead in the fear that our statistics would remain the same as they are, so to speak, and also in the fear that we would collapse in other elections, elections for the European Parliament, it was difficult to obtain, at present, much more than 30% of the women of the current European Parliament. We are now ahead of that, or I hope that we will be second-guessed before applying the principle of equality to the law. We do not expect Slovenian solutions to be as rigorous as they are in some other countries. For example, in Belgium, where the list is invalid, if a certain proportion remains unfulfilled by law. In fact, there may be a maximum of two thirds of this sex on the list. Nor do I expect the solutions to be as soft as they are in France, where penalties exist, if a certain specified percentage is not filled, a defined quota. However, these penalties are not so high, high enough that the parties would not be able to pay them or pay them more than they fulfil the provision. In short, I suppose we will find a meaningful solution to complement the two articles of the law, probably by examining the examples that have brought effective results to other countries and stimulate both the parties and women themselves to create and understand policy with greater confidence and accountability.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you, Comrade Shirtz. There's no schoolmate. My friend Spindler? Please, buddy Spindler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I was, in principle, against this system that is now in place, not as much on my own as it is about everything that this new system brings. For this new system brings the fact that our area in the future can no longer come to the National Assembly, given that we are a small electoral area with 20,000 inhabitants, as a district. And that's the number, even though someone says, the preferred voice is the one that's going to save. I don't believe that. Because in the final stage our simple rural people are not used to giving preferential voices and usually they round the name or list. Last one to give a preference, that's not going to work. In the main, I must represent the interests of our people from which I come, and in the course of this debate I will probably consider how I will actually vote. I am also committed, through the municipal committee of our party, to vote against this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u205	After the stop, you are not bound to any instructions. Comrade Tarchon? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Wolf? [[No, no, ……]] Colleague Zalokkar? [[No, no, ……]] Bad boy? He does. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. As a matter of fact, my colleagues have already told me everything, and - both of them - Majdi. But I think it would be a shame if at least someone from another sex didn't come forward. Women anywhere in Europe have not solved the problem of absenteeism in Parliament, in politics other than positive discrimination. That must be said, and we must not be ashamed of it. That's a higher goal, a civilisation standard. We haven't come to this, except with a handful of women and an even smaller handful of men. This problem must be addressed by political parties within themselves. I don't believe there could be one marriage that would make this impossible. And France has recently been a highly masculinist country, but with this positive discrimination, with the system of restraint, France has in fact completely changed the sexual situation in Parliament in a few years. Not to mention the Scandinavians who did this a long time ago. But I think it's going to be very difficult for us. Even in those parties where they boast that they are liberal and that there is no male chauvinism, we can see in practice that the number of women Members is just as shamefully small. I mean, of course, the Liberal Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u207	Thank you. My friend Anderlich? [[No, no, ……]] Good. Then we concluded the debate. I have already announced twice between it that it will be shorter than it seemed and that we must all take this into account together, because the rule is that we will start making decisions 15 minutes after the end of this debate. Among other things, a decision requiring a qualified two-thirds majority. We'll start at 8:00 and 5:00. I'm asking everyone to pay attention to that. We will start with the agenda items, as discussed, by deciding on the Health Care Act. Thank you very much. By 8:00 and 5:00, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u208	Good evening again, everyone! We continue with the meeting of the National Assembly, first with the adjournment of the 19th point. Before that, I'll ask everyone to take your seats. Point 19 refers to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Surveillance. We are dealing with this in a simplified manner. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. No amendments have been tabled, so they cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision. I am not informed by the authorised persons that the proposal would be inconsistent, so we can decide on it. Please check your voting devices. If there are no reservations, we will move on to a decision on changes and additions to the state border control law. We're voting. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 66 in attendance, 57 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have passed the law and have thus concluded the 19th item of the agenda. At the 21st item of the agenda, we have the first reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income. The proposal for a decision to be decided is: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act in the first reading is appropriate for further consideration." We're voting. Please, if you'll listen! It is an appropriate treatment, this has been explicitly highlighted. 67 present, 37, 25 versus. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 25.]] Let me repeat what I have read loud enough, I have asked for silence, always asking for silence at the time of the decision: the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act is appropriate for further consideration. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'll be even more loud. If there's more peace, it'll be heard even more. Therefore, this decision was adopted by the National Assembly and the law will be allocated to the home labour body, thus this item of the agenda is concluded. We're at the 22nd item of the agenda. Peace in the hall! We are at the 22nd item of the agenda, on the third reading of the proposal for a law on private protection. We have an amendment tabled. It was submitted by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, referring to Article 11. We can decide. We're voting. 72 in attendance, 50 in, 6 in. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. The legislature or the government did not warn me that due to the amendments adopted, the law was inconsistent. We can decide on the law. We're moving to the vote. Please, we're voting. 72 present, 59 for, 5 versus. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] The law has been passed. This also concludes this item on the agenda. Peace in the hall. We are at the 23rd item of the agenda - on the issue of the proposal for a road transport contract law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. Not the service of the National Assembly, no government has informed me that the marriage would be inconsistent. So we can decide about him. We're voting on the law. 72 present, 63 for, none against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and the point has been closed. We are at the 14th item of the agenda - when considering the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Slovenian Intelligence Agency. We are taking a decision on this proposal following a reduced procedure. In the second reading, we will first decide on the amendment tabled. It was tabled by the SLS Group at Article 5. Can we make a decision? I'm sorry, New Slovenia. My mistake, the script was misrecorded. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 5. Order! We're making a decision. 68 in attendance, 10 in and 49 in. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment was not accepted. This is how we have now done the vote on the amendment. The second reading of the bill in the context of the general procedure has ended. We're at third reading. The amendments were not adopted at second reading. We can move on to a decision on the law. The legislature or the government have not notified that the law would not be harmonised. Can we make a decision? Please, the National Assembly is voting on the law. We're in the middle of a vote. 72 present. 62 for, one for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The law has been passed. We are on the 25th item of the agenda - the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the sales programme of state-owned and real estate for 2003 and 2004 We will move on to a decision on this amendment. Dr. Bajuk wants a word before making a decision to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u209	Explanation of voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u210	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u211	Unfortunately, there were not many colleagues and colleagues when we discussed this law today, and I would also like to explain why we will vote against this decision in Novi Slovenija. We are convinced that it is high time for this national assembly to send a clear message to the Slovenian government that this is not how we are going. The sale of state-owned property in such imprudentity as has taken place so far is unacceptable and that this national assembly will no longer allow such things. And especially because we don't have the essential data. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u212	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u213	that if the government comes here by permission, because it must not, without our permission, accept such decisions without our permission from this national assembly. [[...]] Once he's given permission, there's no control over everything that's going on. Therefore, we will vote against, in the hope that this national assembly will send a message to the Slovenian government that there is nothing without transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u214	Peace in the hall! My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. As the President of New Slovenia has already said, I cannot support this proposal. I don't understand why the government sells shares in Drava power plants like this. Today, it has been said that it is proportionate to a small proportion, but of course the state also has a share of excessive funds in the Drava Power Plants. It is clear that somewhere the government has decided to get rid of Drava power plants in this way. But she did not explain here today why such a decision was made. In fact, what Dr. Bajuk said until transparency in this field of work, the National Assembly makes a big mistake by allowing the Slovenian government to do so. I'm determined against it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u216	I don't see any more voice-explanatory applications. We'll move on to decision-making. We're voting. I ask for peace in the hall, we are in the middle of a vote. 75 present, 54 to 18. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] This concludes this point. We're at the 20th item of the agenda. It is the first reading of the amendment bill and the addition of your electoral law to the National Assembly. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, at first reading, is suitable for further consideration." Before voting, I must inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 80(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed decision will be adopted if two thirds of the colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of the National Assembly vote for it, at least 60. We're making a decision. Comrade Kebrich, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. I'll explain my voice. For those of you who have not listened to the debate when I reasoned on why this proposal is not acceptable, because it goes to the detriment of not only small parties, it is to the detriment of the citizens who, in this preferred vote on this proposal, should be so good, but the proposal before us is so vague, so opaque, so untransparent, so misleading, that we can complement something in the second reading with such or other amendments. The essence of the problem remains. Imagine how the ballots will look if the average is 20 sheets in each constituency, although it is proven once again that certain lists are to be removed in such a way that more votes are to be collected so that the list can be applied in view of the fact that they must go to the administrative unit. On the other hand, what a voicemail will look like. They didn't want to say anything about whether it would be a calendar, not with eleven leaves for twelve months - twenty, thirty sheets or one sheet, if written in detail, it would be at least 20 meters long and you'd need a magnifying glass to find a candidate who would like to give him a preferential vote, but you don't know where he's going to be in this whole mess. Such a proposal is misleading and is to the detriment of the electorate. There is no need, and there is no command from the Constitutional Commission to say that this law is not unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u218	The National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on elections to the National Assembly at first reading is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. 74 present, 46 for, 20 versus. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I find that the decision has not been given the necessary majority and that is why this procedure is terminated. This concludes this agenda item. We are at the 18th item of the agenda - the proposal for a horse on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act, third reading under the reduced procedure. The National Assembly held its second reading of the draft law in the context of the reduced procedure at its 30th meeting. At the same time, he decided that the third hearing should be held at the next meeting. I'm asking if the Secretary of State wants a word. Please, mag. Supreme, you have the floor. Please, behind the speaker stage. But everyone else has no words. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u219	Good evening! Dear Members and Members, Mr President!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u220	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u221	In short, once again, as a month has passed since the previous hearing, I would like to present the main objectives, principles and solutions of the law that we have under consideration. Four solutions, or four areas, are processed by this law. The first is the scope of procedures for determining temporary incapacity to work. These procedures were following a decision [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u222	Too much noise for a colleague and a colleague. There's too much noise.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u223	These proceedings were amended by a decision of the Constitutional Court or by a decision of the Constitutional Court in the previous year. At that time, essentially, those solutions were related to other legislation. The proceedings were linked to the Law on Administrative Procedures, because that seemed to us to be the most meaningful thing at the time. It turns out that these procedures are too long in the coming months. In particular, when it comes to certain problems that people have with regard to their health, we have, by means of the provisions proposed in this law, reduced certain deadlines relating to the procedures for determining temporary incapacity to work. The second area we regulate is farmers' health insurance. In principle, the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance has already bound farmers' rights and obligations to the law on pension and disability insurance. This law, disability, pension and disability law, later allowed for the free entry into compulsory pension and disability insurance under certain conditions. These conditions then prevented certain farmers from entering full health insurance. The scope of the rights they received through this entry was limited, and the funds were also paid limitedly. The amendments we are proposing allowing them, of course, to exercise full rights when paying for their full contribution. The third set of amendments refers to the data collected by the Health Insurance Office on insured persons and to the transmission of such data to the Institute. The Health Insurance Record Act has already been submitted to the National Assembly. He's been waiting a few years for treatment. Finally, we have decided, also because in our view it is not necessary for this area to be dealt with by a specific law, to withdraw the law, and here through this law we are now proposing shorter provisions regarding which data and how the institution can collect it and how it is transmitted to it. The fourth set, the changes that were most receptive. However, these provisions provide that insurance undertakings which provide for compulsory car liability must reimburse those insurance undertakings for the costs of treated citizens who have been injured in car accidents. The Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport has already allowed this to happen when it was adopted, while the Act on Health Care and Health Insurance contains an awkward provision to enable the institution to enforce these regressive claims only with evidence of great negligence or intention. With these changes that we are now proposing through legislative changes, we are allowing these regressive claims of the health insurance institution to be more easily enforced. Let me say that at that time we have also reached an agreement on the implementation of this provision with the insurance association or the institution has reached an agreement that will, in fact, gradually introduce this provision into practice or that will allow monitoring of what the actual applications of the institution are in this segment and will not have a significant impact on either the incentive or the inflation of the compulsory car insurance. So much for presentation and further discussion if any further clarification is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We'll move on. I will now give the floor first to the representatives of the groups of Members. My colleague Vnučec withdrew the word, colleague Ana Marija Tisovic will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group. Please have your word. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear government officials! Colleagues and colleagues! High ideas on the socialisation of healthcare from the White Paper, which is promoted by the Minister of Health in Slovenia and the surrounding area, have become contrary in the specific provisions of this Act. They do not now take the rights of orphans, widows and patients from faraway places, as did the previous audit, which he had to cancel after a few months. This law reduces health insurance rights to other groups of insured persons who are in an even more difficult situation. Farmers who are voluntarily insured are still required to pay health insurance contributions. Since they are too poor to be included in compulsory social insurance, you will take the opportunity to guarantee the right to an old-age pension by paying minimum contributions to a voluntary pension. With an additional contribution to health insurance, their contributions will increase so much that they will also get out of voluntary pension insurance and rather wait for a state pension for which they do not have to pay anything. However, health care is guaranteed as family members. Lowering the threshold for compulsory health insurance for farmers from now on to half a quarter of the minimum wage is not an example of solidarity. This means that a person whose official monthly income is less than 18,000 all of this money is spent to pay contributions to compulsory and health insurance. It appears that the applicant of this law has been paid from a written article, as this proposal is paid from a written article, since in this proposal there are a number of provisions on the management of various records copied from other laws where these records are already regulated. Such copying is unnecessary, since database managers are already obliged by other applicable regulations to provide the health service at its request to provide the required data free of charge. We can also consider reducing the time limits for complaints against health insurance rights acts from the previous 8 to 3 days. Under other administrative procedures, the appeal deadlines are at least 8 days and, as a rule, more days, although in other areas, the parties are generally in better shape and would have been able to run more easily from the office to the office and collect the necessary documentation for the complaint within 3 days, as well as the patients and the injured persons concerned by this law. The worst blow, however, came from Dr. Keber’s suggestion to the insurance companies involved in the accidents. The current system requires reimbursement of the costs of treatment, cash compensation and other costs incurred in relation to the treatment of the insured only by the person who caused the disease, injury or death of the insured on purpose or because of gross negligence. This proposal means that the insured person will have to reimburse the health insurance institution for all costs incurred in the treatment of the spouse who has been harmed in an accident which he has not caused, either intentionally or through gross negligence. So it's not his fault. Compensation in such cases may be extremely high. So far, only insurance companies selling car insurance have noticed the danger of this proposal. However, the proposal is even more dangerous for individuals who are injured at home, in sports or recreation where they are not insured. However, since no accident happens on its own, the medical department will likely find someone who will send him the bill. Apparently, Dr. Keber is experimenting live again with this law, for within a few months he will wish such a revolt that he will have to change the law again; then he will boast of productivity that he has put a new law through Parliament again. We do not intend to support this proposal in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u226	Thank you very much. My friend Tuck. Are you gonna talk, buddy Tucky? You have the floor to present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. Respectable ones who persist in these late hours in carrying out their duties! Well, in order to say that we are a constructive opposition that criticises what needs to be criticised, I must say that we do not criticize this law. We are pleased that an amendment has been tabled in the first round, and we will also support it, which complements a gap in the treatment of farmers' insurance. In the second part, as the Secretary of State has said regarding the collection of information and the production of a register of data, we believe that this area is very richly written, but it is not to the detriment of patients, to the detriment of the insured. We expect the most after the adoption of the law still to be controversial with regard to car insurance. The law introduces a slightly greater consistency so that the damage or damage to health caused by a traffic accident is treated and the costs will be covered by car insurance. According to the Institute for Health Insurance, this is estimated to be about 3 to 4 billion annually. I must say that it is expected that the insurance companies will, of course, take advantage of this change in the law and, on the nose, try to raise premiums, insurance premiums by all means, and, of course, also put this on the shoulders of car insurers. However, it must be said that already all those who have insured cars in our car insurance companies are already paying for all the risks of possible injuries, accidents, treatments and the like. In the contract itself, or in the explanation of the contract that you recommence every year, the car insurance company states in Article 1 - secured danger - such as: the insurance company repays the damage to shorten, compensates the damage if death, physical injury or the health of a person has occurred. From this title, insurance companies paid 29 billion in the last year and 51 billion in the amount of our insurance premium. So the profit from this title is 22 billion. With this law in force, profit is expected to fall by three to four billion, and insurance companies will still have 18 billion profits from this title. We note this because we would, however, resist the expected pressure after the increase in car insurance premiums. We expect another toll from this title to come to the health department. Even if the State had returned or paid at least one share of the funds to health insurance from excise duties for alcohol and tobacco, it would not have been necessary, as announced in the health reform, to raise the health contribution rate or to introduce new taxes on wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u228	Thank you very much. A colleague of Silva's. He doesn't want a word. Then it's buddy Brenčič? You don't? You want a word? Please, colleague Brenčič, SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. We, as a parliamentary group, have already said in broad terms in the second reading of the draft law, so today we will not be long. We are happy and pleased that the solutions that this law brings have also persisted in the third reading. The solutions were needed, the proposal could have come a long time ago, but it is good that they are here. As far as compulsory health insurance is concerned, this is a positive measure, and we expect that the proposal will also come with those proposals waiting in the same way as these solutions have been expected to be clearly present for resolution. It is also good for us that article 8 of the bill has not been further opened. In addition, the somehow-premended approach of insurance undertakings, which provides for car insurance, as well as the high level of additional burdened premiums for this purpose, has been eased by the fact that, in accordance with the Compulsory Automotive Insurance Act, the premium in this Title is designed to cover all these liabilities they have to the health insurance institution. It is true, however, that several more tolars will remain in the health insurance office and that some of the rights set out in this title will also be more easily realized. We will also be pleased to support the amendment to Article 1 which is reshaped as we wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u230	The colleague Stopar will present the position of the Club of Parliament of Liberal Democracy and then I understand we will go to the debate of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and for everyone's fine evening at the end of the agenda. In the third reading, we have before us a bill amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act. The bill introduces three major amendments. I'm not gonna count 'em because we all know 'em. One of the objectives of the bill is also to regulate the insurance of farmers. In the second reading, an amendment was adopted at the meeting of the parent working body at Article 1, which provides in the new paragraph 6 that insured persons may voluntarily decide to provide for reduced rights. The conditions for such insurance shall be laid down in the Regulation adopted by the Minister responsible for health. In preparation for the third reading of this law, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we paid a lot of attention to the question of the definition of the agricultural economy, since there was a general view that the definition of the agricultural economy was too wide. The solutions proposed by the coalition partners in the amendment to the second indent of Article 15 constitute a clearer definition of the agricultural economy, and are more precisely defined as members of the agricultural economy and subject to the management of this activity as the sole or principal profession. The solution also makes sense to link the last two paragraphs of the previous amended text of the proposal. For all these reasons, it follows that the Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the amendment to Article 1 and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u232	Thanks for the debate. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I'll call those who are present. Silva Montenegro wants a debate? [[No, no, ……]] Franci Rokavec? Tone Anderlich? We have exhausted the debate between Members and Members of Parliament from the applicants. I therefore conclude the debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We are moving on to a debate on individual amendments and articles. We have an amendment to Article 1. It was tabled by LDS, the United List, SLS and DeSUS. I am putting this amendment to Article 1 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I also conclude the debate on articles and amendments. There were no other amendments to Article 1. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. May I have your attention, please? Are we ready? We're voting. We're voting. I'm sorry. We'll re-vote. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The law is harmonised because I don't have any other information. We will now vote on the law as a whole. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 51 votes against 5. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] The law has been passed. I hereby adjourn the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all for your cooperation and good night.
