ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I also welcome the Secretary of State, who will have an introduction to the first item on the agenda today. First of all, I will inform you, fellow Members and colleagues, which of the colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament today cannot attend the 26th meeting of the National Assembly due to other obligations. These are colleagues Barovic, Bozič, Dr. Brejc, Germič, Horvat, Kacin, Kangler, Kopushar, Lenko, Marshich, Merlo, Peterle, Vizjak and colleague Orazem. As we say, we will continue today with 8. POINT OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATIVE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGAL TEST. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. To the Secretary of State, Mr Jenul, I am giving the opportunity to further explain the bill's proposal, for which it has five minutes of time available. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The fundamental purpose of the amendments and the addition of the law on the legal state exam is to improve the state of education in the judiciary. While this education is intended for training to serve as a judge and prosecutor, as well as the profession of lawyer and notary, i.e. the human resources needs of the judiciary. However, given that the legal examination carried out also represents an important advantage in job placement, for which it does not constitute a formal condition, there has been a significant increase in the pressure of candidates to perform their traineeships and legal examinations over the last period. He went beyond the human resources needs of the judiciary. In Slovenia, there are a total of 336 vacancies for judicial traineeships, and in April this year there were approximately 1,400 candidates waiting to enter the judicial traineeship, the last of which could not be reached until about five years later. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that, on average, 380 students a year are already graduating from both law schools, and the trend of increasing this number has been observed. That situation requires that the current judicial internship be reduced in the medium term and opened for all who wish to carry out the current legal examination. However, those candidates who would actually like to perform judicial functions should also carry out additional education and perhaps an additional examination. Such a broader reform of judicial education is already being prepared, but its immediate regulation, with systemic changes, would, as assessed by the applicant, extend the waiting periods with the current large number of candidates, and would also reach into their expectations. Another reason for the postponement of such reform is related to the open question of the trial court mandate, at least during the period when we were preparing the law. For this reason, this proposal for an amendment was first introduced in the legislative procedure, the main purpose of which is to enable as many candidates as possible to carry out the examination. At the same time, the unchanged system aims to improve the content of the traineeship and the legal examination. The measures that the law will allow to reduce the waiting period are the possibility of abolishing compulsory training in higher courts where there is stagnation in the education of a large number of trainees, and will therefore be considered in the preparation of a new Regulation on the traineeship and examination programme to extend training at the first stage instead of compulsory training. Furthermore, alternative identification of training in the Economic or Labour Court is envisaged by choice of candidates. This change will also increase the number of traineeships able to train during the same period. The number of traineeships is expected to increase as the Minister of Justice, in line with the assessment of the President's higher courts following the entry into force of the law and the sub-law, can at least double the number of traineeships in individual courts for trainees provided by the employer or volunteers. The bill will also provide a basis for additional compulsory forms of education, which will be further regulated by a sub-legislative act. In the framework of the traineeship programme, seminars on selected topics and colloquies led by judges will be held together following the German model for several trainees. In this way, the training of judicial trainees will be partly uniform in different courts. Amendments to the State legal examination will be introduced by introducing a written mandate for candidates performing the examination within the same month. For this reason, all candidates for whom the same probation period is fixed will perform the written part of the examination together and the oral part in the following month. This will allow for a more objective assessment, for which two members will be in charge of each area of the written examination, and a six-member oral examination committee will remain. The written mandate will only cover the drafting of a first-degree judicial decision in the civil and criminal fields. We believe that such a bill, which also introduces a single register of candidates for judicial traineeships and an extended record of the conduct of examinations, is being followed and will achieve legislative objectives. We therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Ms Lidija Majnik, rapporteur of the Internal Policy Committee, will briefly present the report of this Committee and will then be given the floor by a representative of the parliamentary groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u4	President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At its 35th regular meeting on 7 May 2003, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy considered the draft law. The representative of the applicant gave an introductory explanation and explained that the proposal for a law would in particular reduce the gap between the actual human resources needs of the judiciary of young lawyers in order to carry out a legal examination even if they did not intend to work in the judiciary later. He explained that there is already a long-term concept of changes in judicial education, which, at the first legal examination of the state, provides for another examination, which will be aimed at specialising in those who really want to work in justice. However, the broader reform has been postponed because it is extremely difficult because one of the proposed amendments to the Constitution is linked to the question of the probationary mandate and the existing waiting lines for the examination. For this reason, the proposed law, according to the proposaler, represents only the most urgent changes, with which it wishes to address in the short term the greatest shortcomings of the current system, while continuing with a longer-term project to prepare major substantive changes. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislature and took into account their comments by adopting the amendments. The opinion on the law was also put forward by the Commission of the State Council for the political system. It supported and stressed the importance of a comprehensive approach to reducing too long-term waiting periods. In order to improve the quality of personnel, they support the introduction of a secondariat. The representative of the Society of Young Lawyers objected to the abolition of compulsory traineeships in higher courts, as this would mean a reduction in the quality of traineeships. In order to reduce waiting lines, they propose to shorten traineeships in courts from two to one year. The representative of the Slovenian Judicial Society also stressed that the limitation of training to the Court of First Instance alone would mean a reduction in the quality of traineeships. The proposals of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia have been considered by the Committee as proposals for amendments to the Committee and have also been accepted with some corrections. In the debate, the members of the Committee highlighted the importance of the amendment to Article 4 which allows the total number of traineeships specifically to determine the number of places for the education of lawyers, notaries, state prosecutors and state-level defence trainees who are employed by such employers, as they need a legal examination to carry out their profession. The bill will thus favour the problem of long waiting periods, but not completely eliminated, so the members of the committee took the initiative to submit a new law as soon as possible. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the LDS Member Club, the SLS Group and the UK Group of Social Democrats by Articles 5, 7, 8, 23 and 26 of the draft law. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of Ambassador Majda Zupan to Article 11 and one amendment of the parliamentary groups and the parliamentary club became irrelevant. The Committee has set out the texts of the amended law by including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal. The Committee also took note of the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the preparation of a new proposal for a law on legal examination, which will provide a more comprehensive system of judicial education and legal examination, which the Committee supports and expects to be regulated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Majnikov, for presenting the report of the Committee on Internal Policy. We will now listen to the views of the groups of Members. A colleague of Majde Zupan is missing, a colleague of Barovic will replace or a colleague of Peca colleague Barovic. Please, colleague Peca, you have three minutes, so reported colleague Barovic's performance, then colleague Petan or for them colleague Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! In its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the proposer, according to our assessment, explained the need for a novel in sufficient quality, while at the same time stressing in his explanation that it is only a set of most urgent corrections. The approach to modernising Slovenian legislation should be regarded as positive from this or that area in the Slovenian National Party, since the practice so far, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always pointed to new roof laws, it is our view that it has wasted time and, of course, has been delayed by the preparation of these laws. We therefore appreciate that the approach of the so-called "per partes" approach is also meaningful, so that at least a certain segment in our society, which depends on this "per partes" of the law, we can make it easier to work in the form of obtaining an individual title or taking up a job. In addition, the National Party correctly assesses that the novel has taken place and that today it is being treated in accordance with the said procedure. In any event, according to the 2002 data, the applicant stated in the introduction that in Slovenia 336 vacancies were available for judicial training, of which 208 by the conclusion of the employment relationship and 128 by the educational process. And what is very interesting is the proposaler himself, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in his explanation, states that in April 2002 a judicial internship of 1,200 candidates is expected, which means that if we do not adopt the amendment of the law, all candidates will be able, on condition that new candidates do not arrive, to perform their educational function or title only after five years. It is reasonable to point out, however, that there are 380 more graduates at the University of Maribor and Ljubljana each year, most of whom express their desire for the activities mentioned in the Act. According to our assessment and probably also according to the Government's assessment, these delays are due to the condition of preparation on the basis of a valid sub-legislative act, which is also well-marked by the bill's proponent as a narrow throat. We therefore consider that the amendment of the law makes sense to support it. We are also convinced in the National Party that the amendment of the law follows three basic objectives, but only one concerns us within the SNS Group. First of all, the abolition of compulsory education in higher courts for entry into judicial traineeships. It is true that this raises the issue of the quality or acquisition of professional knowledge that can be acquired by the candidates by an old method or by an existing method. It is true, however, that this five - year waiting period came in exchange for this quality. On the other hand, the applicant states that quality will be [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u7	Please just finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u8	Well, I have two more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u9	Yeah, after the show, but my friend Barovic reported himself for three minutes. You're replacing him, and you've got so much time. But please finish your sentence and your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u10	Well, then I will end with the praise of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and identify myself to the point of concern with regard to the implementation of the compulsory forms of education indicated by the applicant in point 2 in relation to the burden of these students or students participating in the process that would like to accompany these seminars. We therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider, in the context of the financial consequences of the law, the possibility of attending such seminars free of charge. In addition, we would like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to define in its final speech also the letter or position of young lawyers of Slovenia, which speaks of quality. Because I believe that the quality of the judicial function is the most important and should remain a priority within our society. We're either going to support the marriage or we're going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thanks, buddy. My friend Petan's not here. Mr Potrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Celigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the law on justice, adopted in a package of laws that is supposed to establish a modern, European comparable justice system in the Republic of Slovenia. However, as many of the other laws in this package are often amended and complemented because they do not have full effects, this law also proposes that the weaknesses that, in the field of training after the diploma of a university-graduate lawyer and in the performance of a traineeship exam cause difficulties and prevent all who want to do this exam for their future work from being able to do so in due course. At the same time, the proposals say that this first reform will represent some progress during the duration of the traineeship, but that it will be necessary to be comprehensive, which is not yet possible to propose, partly because it would require more preparation and more comprehensive reform, partly because they are foreseen, but also because the constitutional reform is not yet expected, and also because it is finally necessary to meet the expectations of those who have been waiting for the legal exam for years to take place. This time, therefore, the most urgent temporary solutions are proposed. That they are urgent, perhaps even late, we agree. Many institutions are, many interested, highly educated, all involved, but it seems to us that sometimes we are getting too slow because of this proposal, because the competitiveness of ideas is too great and all of them cannot agree that we will get timely and well-agreed proposals. In this account - unfortunately, this must be said - justice also loses its reputation and there are more and more people who misjudge their work. It may not fit directly in this context, but the last act, the resignation of Mrs Tadeja Zim, President of the District Court in Ljubljana, is once again a case of problems that remain half-solvable in justice. However, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we also support the bill as a temporary solution. There is simply no other option, as only a few years of growing gap between the stakeholders in the exercise of traineeships, which is a condition for later work - in the courts for sure and elsewhere - indicates that there is a need for reform. The current gap between 464 candidates, as far as the traineeship could carry out in one year and ca. 1200 already reported, plus ca. The 380 graduates each year show that these young people should wait years and years for a suitable place to train and take a judicial exam. This is a condition for us to be able to carry out our work successfully in court and, in many cases, a condition for them to be employed elsewhere. That is why we hope, and so the proponents promise us that the proposed solutions will at least partially ease these problems, and in anticipation that this will be the case, this is sufficient reason why we need to support the proposed changes and amendments to the law. However, we expect, as has been said on the labour market, that there will also be a comprehensive reform proposed as soon as possible in this sector of justice, according to the state exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Čeligoj will present the views of the DeSUS Group of Members. He'll be followed by a fellow Diaca. First of all, Comrade Celigoy, DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. A warm greeting to all present. Please also allow some thoughts to be considered by the DeSUS Group of Members. The Law on the Judicial State Examination provides in Article 1, paragraph 1, that the law governs traineeships after the professional title obtained by a graduate lawyer for the purpose of training for the performance of the judicial function and the functions of the state prosecutor, the profession of lawyer and notary, or the performance of other works for which the law requires a legal examination. Few laws, except in the case of professions such as a lawyer, a notary, a state prosecutor or a lawyer for whom the basic law is so provided for in their field, require as a condition for the performance of part of a legal examination. For example, this is the case with the Asylum Law for Refugee Counsellors. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we ask why almost every job invitation, both in the public and private sectors, as well as the condition for the performance of the job, is required for a legal examination. It is true that it is in the employer's interest that a person, perhaps because of representing a private or public entity before judicial authorities, may wish to employ a person with a judicial examination already carried out. However, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is necessary to regulate the intention under which the employer weighs in law, since in the present case there is a breach of the legal provision. Nor does an unusable law on public servants lay down such a condition for the performance of a particular job, although the fact that certain internal acts of public administrations also require a judicial examination of certain jobs. By prescribing a legal examination as a condition for employment for each job, we have evaluated the title of a graduate lawyer and a faculty curriculum, which we consider to be providing sufficient knowledge for the performance of legal works. The legal examination should only be a condition for work where it is necessary for training under the law of those legal professions. In addition, in the DeSUS Group, we draw attention to some of the provisions of the proposed law. It should be reconsidered that the possibility of replacing a manufactured civil or criminal decision at the first stage with a decision of a working or economic court, as well as a decision of an administrative court, should be eliminated. We believe that the privilege of civil and criminal law is unnecessary or that, despite the fact that these two legal areas, which comprise a large part of legal science, are necessary to enable trainees to draw up judicial decisions in the areas closest to them or in the area in which they will work after their examination. One of the reasons for amending and supplementing the law on legal examination is also the alleged reduction of waiting lines for entry into the traineeship. The fact that it is really necessary to think about it is also clear that the number of people waiting for a state legal exam is as high as 1,400 and that they are only 150 per year. The last in line will probably have to wait ten years for this logic and statistics. Another problem is an extremely small number of traineeships. The proposed amendments and the amendments adopted to the proposal, in our opinion, do not contribute to the target, but rather facilitate access to the courts by favouring those who have already done the selection internship and making access difficult for all others. The amendments adopted by the Committee are aimed at closing jobs for those who do not yet have such services, since one of the amendments expressly stipulates that in the total number of traineeships for traineeships performing judicial training in the framework of the education provided by the employer, the number of training places shall be determined in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Diaci will present the position of the Youth Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Today, the following situation is on the board or on the billboard of the Ljubljana Supreme Court: 769 candidates are in line for judicial training, which is determined by taking into account the time of full application. Someone who signed on to the list six months before the end of the last century is now in 81st place. We've been talking about almost a decade, not years of waiting. It seems important to me to stress that the problem is already old, the Ministry of Justice, in fact, well-known to the government, and on our part a warning has come. On 27.11.2000, the Minister at "hearing" answered my question on this subject before the Committee on Internal Policy [[Quote]] "Well, in this area, of course, some questions will still have to be thoroughly examined, so I will not give any definitive answer at this time, but I see certain options. Well, in any case, in case a miba is given to deal with this, I will look at what are the actual options, what is the current situation and where are the remaining unused reserves, if I may say so." So - I go on - the ministry has spent almost three years looking for options and concrete action. For too long, I think, at the same time, such slow action does not stimulate optimism in other cross-border cases in the judiciary, where there is even more waiting, but it is even more serious matters, i.e. judicial backlogs. We've talked about this a lot. However, we are glad that things are moving now, and more likely to be happy waiting in line. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, the bill can only be a temporary solution for what we need, which is an appropriate way to improve the situation, so we will support it. However, as is evident from all discussions, we are all aware that the law represents only the most urgent changes, with which the most urgent shortcomings of the current system are addressed only in the short term. In the future, a new law should be drawn up and it should be borne in mind that the labour market is one that requires young lawyers to pass a state legal examination, even if they do not intend to work in the judiciary. This should not only be taken into account when preparing a comprehensive reform, but also respects that there would not be any restrictive approaches in future. So, as we say, we support the marriage in SMS. We want a lot of success for young lawyers on exams that we hope will be more now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Majnikov's colleague will now present the position of the LDS Club of Parliament, for which a member club or SLS Group will do so, and then we will conclude. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For the first time in Slovenia, the waiting time for a traineeship to conduct a legal exam is extremely long, too long, as some young people are waiting for a compulsory one-year internship in court from the joint two-year traineeship even between 5 and 7 years. Secondly, legal experts are announcing that in Slovenia it is essential to maintain uniform education for all judicial professions and thus the transition between them, which is particularly important for a country with fewer inhabitants. Since the problem of the long waiting period is so acute, we have followed the amendments mainly to shorten them quickly, as we are aware that more time is needed for a more fundamental reform. Of course, we expect the government and the competent ministry to bring about a system-wide change in judicial education, which will take into account both European practice and the debate under this law, to be put into the procedure as soon as possible. Unlike Slovenia, where we have a two-year internship, of which one year is mandatory in court, countries with many examples of Slovenian law have different solutions. In Austria, where the principle of a single lawyer is established, the case law lasts for 9 months. If this is a condition for the management of the profession, the candidate shall have the right to it and shall not have the waiting period. Judges are required to educate up to two trainees at the same time. Judicial preparatory service, education lasts for 4 years. They also have mandatory stations in Austria: one year at the regional and district courts and at least five months at the lawyer and the state prosecutor's office, even though the principle of a single lawyer does not apply. Unlike Austria in Germany, the principle of a single lawyer has been established for us. Preparation for all legal professions shall be common and shall take nine months. It shall be carried out by work in courts or other services engaged in legal activities. Mandatory with the lawyer and public administration and compulsory multi-hour courses are organised. After the examination, candidates may be appointed immediately as a judge or a state prosecutor, who shall have a probationary mandate and may also be dismissed within three to five years. The French model is probably too foreign for us to follow his example. There is a 31-month special education at the State School for Judges. The lowest age limit for entry into school is 27 years, especially the experience and merit of a variety of professions, and after the end of school, the candidate's subjective suitability for judicial service is also assessed in addition to objective assessments. Taking into account the principle of uniformity of education and thus the transition between the judicial professions, we must also take into account the fact that in Slovenia we have a great deal of qualified and qualified people in the entire judiciary. According to some, eight hundred judges have graduated from the same colleges and passed the same judicial exam. Where they are now employed is, of course, more a matter of a career and not just of quality. Citizens rightly expect justice to transfer their knowledge to their younger professional colleagues. We will therefore be interested in monitoring the results of the law we are considering in the LDS. We expect waiting periods to shorten or end as soon as possible, or a new system law will require cutting down on more radical measures, such as a German model. The bill now under consideration with the proposed amendments gives hope for success, from the central register awaiting the mandate of the Minister for the issuance of the Regulation and the decision on the number of traineeships, from the establishment of mandatory stations in court to the introduction of compulsory forms of education, from the specific quotas for volunteer trainees to the mandatory conclusion of the employment relationship, at least for the duration of the traineeship with the employment relationship concluded. The current situation is almost critical. As my colleague has already said, there are too few vacant cities and too many waiting ones. There are only 128 seats in the courts for those so-called volunteers who are provided with jobs by other employers and have already completed one year of traineeship, and each year the number of graduates waiting for about 400 is increasing. So this number just keeps increasing and not shrinking. I would only mention the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, in the same case, recognised the legal interest of the defendant, but did not decide on her appeal, because her legal interest had been interrupted because she had obtained an internship. In the LDS Parliamentary Group, we will support the law with the amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Majnik. Mr Rokavec will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and then we will go to the debate on the only amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members and a representative of the Government! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the waiting time for a legal examination is unacceptable. In particular, the applicant, the government, has tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the legal state exam after a working group at the Ministry of Justice has also drawn up some views on the reform of education in the judiciary and has also drafted the draft law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that reform of education in justice is one of the key steps towards addressing the problems of Slovenian justice, although the abolished legal examination does not constitute a formal condition for work in the public administration and in the private sector, and in our view it is one of the stronger factors of the quality of knowledge and competence of a particular individual. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore advocate solutions that will help ensure that the exercise of the legal exam is accessible to the widest possible range of stakeholders. The current arrangements with the waiting period, as already mentioned in the introductions, are unacceptable and inappropriate to enter the traineeship for about five years. In the SLS Group, we support the proposed solutions that abolish compulsory education in higher courts and support the planned double increase in the number of traineeships in individual courts. Some other proposed changes are also intended to help improve the quality of traineeships and the examination itself, according to the applicant. As the second phase of the reform of education in the judiciary, the proposal announced a greater overflight of the entire education system, and in our Group of Members, we want these forecasts to be adhered to and implemented as soon as possible. The Group of Members will also support the proposed bill, of course, in the expectation that this is indeed the beginning of reform of the entire educational system in the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the only amendment tabled to this article. Article 7 of the amendment was tabled by the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want a word about him? Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government of this amendment does not support it because it is not necessary. The purpose of the amendment is to specify more precisely how long the candidate who has concluded a working relationship as a trainee in a court of law must remain in the judiciary after the traineeship has been completed, but that time is sufficiently specified in the proposed article 11a and article 7 of the novel, when it reads there, "for the period for which he was in a working relationship." This means, in the case of two-year traineeships or a two-year selection and compulsory two-year period, in the case of one-year traineeships, this is one year. We also do not support the amendment because in the second paragraph it introduces a criterion for fulfilling this obligation with the words "the cadre needs of justice, but in such a way as to assess whether they exist or not." However, we have advocated in the proposal for a law that this criterion for the conclusion of a working relationship in traineeship is deleted from the law precisely because this concept is indeterminate and cannot be accurately predicted what this means. However, what are these human resources needs in the global context, namely for the State Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General's Office and the Notariat, will be set out in a specific quota, which is also provided for in legal amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Anyone else want a word? If you don't, then I'll close the debate. Today at 6.25 p.m., we will start the vote and decide on it as well. Until then, I'm breaking this agenda. At 11:00 and 15 minutes we will move on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia as a business excellence under the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I'll give the government a word at the outset. By 11:15, when we start the 9th, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u24	We're moving on to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW RECOGNITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR BUSINESS EVALUATION. The bill was tabled by the Government and I think the Minister will have a brief supplementary explanation. Please, Minister of Education, Science and Sports, Dr. Gaber, you have the floor. [[you have 5 minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence, which we are developing in Slovenia, is part of a broader system of national awards in the European region, which are awarded for the quality of business as a result of knowledge, innovation and continuous learning and improvement. The basis or example is the European Quality Award, which has been awarded since 1991. Slovenia joined the European countries that are active in this area when it started to develop this prize in 1995 and adopted the law in 1998. The results of Slovenia so far are very good in terms of the number of applicants, the level of assessments and the integration of the best in European award procedures, and show the correctness of the decision to launch the Business Excellence Award. Our recognition follows the European quality award and the European evaluation criteria, but since the entry into force of the current law in 1998, there have been several changes, notably the introduction of a specific category of public sector prize, as well as modifications in other categories. The changes and additions to the law that are before you today relate to these very segments. The objectives of the proposed amendments are, therefore, to introduce the award in addition to the private sector, to define the categories of prizes for occasional changes under the European Quality Award in the Rules issued by the Recognition Committee, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and to adapt the current text of the law to changes in legislation that has reorganised the organisation of certain ministries. The government is convinced that these complements are meaningful and necessary, and we ask the National Assembly to confirm them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Minister Dr. Gaber. The Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport considered this proposal to be a competent working body. The Chair of the Committee, Comrade Moge, will present the report and then follow the presentations of the views of the groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u27	President, thank you so much for your word. A nice greeting for both Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! At its 20th regular session, the Committee considered the law tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and decided that it should be dealt with in a simplified procedure. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on social activity and the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the proposer said in his supplementary explanation of the articles that only the most urgent changes were proposed following the example of the European Quality of Business Award. He stressed that the amendment should be adopted so that it could be used as soon as possible in practice also for part of the public sector. The representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, however, said that the introduction of representatives of representative unions into the Committee on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence would increase compliance with one of the fundamental criteria of business excellence, that is business morality. The Committee further adopted several amendments to the draft law, which, inter alia, provide that, for the first time, the criteria for granting the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence are laid down in accordance with the criteria and criteria of the European Quality Award. Secondly, it amends the composition of the Committee on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence by introducing two new members: a representative of representative unions, which will result in a better choice between candidates for recognition, and instead of one director of the Public Institute, two directors of the organisation from the public sector will be appointed, since the Committee will ensure a more balanced representation of organisations from the public sector. There were no amendments to the law. By adopting this law, if the National Assembly were to start it, but it would be adopted, this law would apply to the process of awarding recognitions of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence in 2004. This means that the procedures already initiated in 2003 will be completed in accordance with the law currently in force. The Committee invites Members and Members of the National Assembly to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. In the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, we will first hear a colleague of Pečet presenting the views of the parliamentary club or group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u29	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the public sector could also be characterised by a sector of opacity or intransparency. We estimate that this sector, which somehow causes or bears a large share of responsibility in our regulation, is, on the one hand, a public financial crisis and, on the other hand, a tax confusion, unfortunately, because the state has a great mandate with its views and its public sector actions. It makes sense, therefore, and on the one hand, to approach, in the form of a law, any regulation or criteria or guidance that can improve the situation and quality, on the one hand, the productivity of the public sector itself. Although the fact that the Slovenian National Party has all the responsibility to state that the debate on this law is a less important matter, it only appears that the adoption of the criteria or the proposal of the law itself could help improve the quality of the public sector's work in a certain part. According to our assessment, the public sector has also been called "worst" because, at least in our belief, it has never been affected by the criteria or the market criteria and has always been excluded from the whole event, on the one hand, both within the domestic environment and in the foreign environment. However, we sincerely hope that, when this law is passed, which we will also support in the Slovenian National Party, we will develop criteria and thus achieve good will, at least those working in the public sector, to make the framework of their work more concrete and correct and that more effective achievements or better and quality achievements can also be made in this way and to try to adjust the time and modernisation of our society; and, on the other hand, to reduce the negative impact of the public sector - on the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, the countries of Slovenia. We estimate that the law can contribute to the quality of the public sector and for this reason we will also, within the National Party, adopt a bill amending and supplementing the law on the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. Thank you. Or maybe they're backing us up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you very much, buddy. She will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the United List of Social Democrats, we are aware of the encouraging role played in the knowledge of various activities, as feedback on the quality achieved in the operations of companies, institutions and other legal persons and public authorities is about the modernisation and competitiveness of their products and services. We therefore also support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia as a business excellence. The proposal emphasises that the adoption of amendments and additions will allow for a new model of recognition for business excellence already this year. This is according to the new only valid model for the European prize. It also includes the award of public sector organisation awards. The proposal follows the changes adopted by European countries in recent years as part of the European quality of business prize. The integration of an improved model of excellence into the existing system of awarding Slovenian awards for business excellence is thus taking a step with more than 20 European countries to which we want and need to compare ourselves. Special national recognition will allow comparison of the quality of business between similar organisations from the public sector, and a good result, namely recognition, will open the way for them to compete for the European quality prize. Since prizes and recognitions do not only have an incentive role for all those competing for them, but they commit the carriers to maintaining and overcoming what they have achieved, they also benefit all users of services and products, which is the meaning of prizes and recognitions. With the adoption of the amendments removing the concerns and taking into account the comments of the legislative and legal services and the Council of State, we will support the proposed legislation in the United List of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Komljanec will present the views of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy, followed by his colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u33	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr. Minister, members, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Globalisation is the social phenomenon that forces an undertaking to make its internal processes and business, and in particular relations with customers or users of services optimally manage. Among the most important achievements is the long-term strategy for comprehensive quality management, the key objective of which is business excellence. There are several methodologies for measuring business excellence in the business world. Among the most recognised and established, the technology of the European Award for Business Excellence is the most prestigious in the area of comprehensive quality management and business excellence, and is awarded annually by an independent jury of experts and the resulting methodology on which the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence is based. Before us are amendments and additions to the laws on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia as a business excellence adopted in 1998. Because we're following the European department, and it's from [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] amending the law and including the evaluation of public sector organisations among the criteria, it is necessary to provide for a specific category of recognition for the public sector, which does not define the current law on recognition of professional excellence. [[...]] In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the complementary proposal of the law and we want public sector organisations successfully to be included among the recipients of the highest national recognition under the national quality programme of the Republic of Slovenia for achievements in the field of product and service quality and quality of business as a result of development, knowledge and innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik will present the views of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the importance of the business excellence of Slovenian organisations and therefore support the Government's proposal to extend the system of evaluation of business excellence to the public sector. The recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence is the highest national award awarded each year by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the best organisations for achievements in the field of product and service quality and quality of business as a result of the development of knowledge and innovation. It takes over a recognised and well-established model of business excellence in the world, which is also the basis of the European Quality Award and allows organisations in both the public and private sectors to compete with organisations in the European space. In our view, it is very important that the government further encourages applications for the evaluation itself. In 2002, 14 organisations took part in the recognition process, which proved that even in Slovenia there was an increasing awareness of the importance of excellence. It is important that, last year, two health organisations which have exceeded their participation in the pilot project and have therefore decided to participate in the public tender procedure. However, the Committee on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence, appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, decided for two awards in two categories. One of the advantages of the application for recognition is certainly the feedback received by each organisation in the form of a final report to the notifier, which, in order to assess the advantages and opportunities for improvement, provides a starting point for continuous improvement of the quality of the improvement and also for the preparation of business plans for the following years. The involvement of organisations from the public sector is particularly important for promoting innovation and the efficiency of organisation of business in the new conditions of the European market. The Slovenian public sector has so far not faced much of the situation in force in the European Union. However, the truth must also be acknowledged that the European Union has not yet defined the universal values that should apply to the public sector. There are also different concepts in the European Union for the functioning of public and public administrations. It is therefore very important that the law encourages the implementation of such practices or practices that will be comparable to the most stringent European criteria, including for the public and not only the private sector. And to help Slovenia implement common European criteria for the business excellence of the public sector. In our view, the future image of Slovenia and the European community and the quality of our life in it depend largely on this. As it is said, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. By presenting the views of your parliamentary group, we have concluded the debate; that is, no amendments have been tabled to the draft law and it is not possible to discuss the articles, so it is concluded, and another consideration of the bill. The legislative vote will take place today at 6.25 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate the 9th item of the agenda and announce the 10th, which will begin at 11.50 a.m. It will be a matter of considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on professional and scientific titles; in this case, too, it is a proposal for a government and a competent school ministry. By 11:50, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u37	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - This is a proposal for a bill on amendments and additions to the law on professional and scientific titles. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. At the same time, I welcome the government's present representatives, led by Minister Slavko Gabr.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Government shall send to the procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on professional and scientific addresses and propose a shorter procedure for examining this law. The core of the content of this Act is the technical adaptation of the acts of institutions which accede to the Treaty of Slovenia to the European Union. The changes that are ahead of us today follow the European Commission's comments on Slovenia's list of proposals for technical adjustments for chapter two, which is the free movement of persons. After consulting representatives of the dental profession, the Ministry of Health suggested that the professional address should be changed, namely a professional address in dental medicine, doctor of dental medicine. In this law, we are actually only dealing with this issue. The change is smaller, so we are convinced that it can be carried out in a reduced procedure, but it is necessary for our dentists to function normally in the framework of the European Union market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, as a parent working body, has considered the draft law and I ask the representative or chairman of this Committee, Mr Rudolph Mojet, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u40	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry about the lapsus earlier. At its 20th regular session, the Committee considered the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the College decided to consider following a reduced procedure. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on social activities and the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. During the discussion, the members of the Committee drew attention to the written opinion of the legislative and legal service, which commented that the proposed amendment did not provide for the possibility of translating the professional address from the dental doctor into dental medicine. It is therefore unclear what will be the status of those dentists abroad who will not be able to submit a certificate of three years of work and those who are currently conducting six years of dental studies. The Legislative and Legal Service has also warned that the amendment will be in force before the entry into force of this year’s study year, which means that candidates will enter into a programme that will no longer exist by law and will be in accordance with the tendering conditions of the regulation. The comments of the Legal and Legislative Service were partly taken into account by the Committee with its amendment. The representative of the applicant, however, undertook to re-examine and take due account of the comments before the hearing at the national assembly. The Committee further voted on all the articles of the legislative proposal together and adopted them, and invites Members and Members of the national assembly to adopt the amended draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you, President. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ana Maria Tisovic is not present. Instead of colleague Bogdan Barovic, the position of the Slovenian National Party will be given by colleague Saša Pec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u42	Your Honors are here! Adapting to the European Union's legal order and to its standards is the most common in the last ten years in the National Assembly and probably also within the framework of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that, given the decision of Slovenian citizens and citizens to join the EU, it is reasonable and necessary to carry out all those activities which will thus allow for an equivalent position in the field of the acquis of the European Union, and especially in the field of the global labour market. Therefore, it makes sense for us to support the complementary proposal of the law. Unfortunately, however, our legal order, i.e. the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, does not allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to automatically adopt such legislation. We think or assess that it would make sense if our legal order allowed such minimum corrections - because the fact is that, in the case of this law, it is a minimal correction - could be the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as it is said, this constitutional order or legislation of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow it. We will support the complementary proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you. Comrade Janez Cimperman is not present, colleague Vojko Čeligoj cancels the debate and therefore has the floor of colleague Janez Komljanec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u44	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union is a process that will undoubtedly also bring a number of new initiatives in the field of education. Our universities, academics and universities successfully connect with foreign people and participate in numerous international projects such as Tempus, Socrates, Kopirnikus, Eureka and so on. Obstacles to the free movement of the trans-European labour force occur mainly due to differences in qualifications after completion of education. The European Commission has already outlined solutions in its White Paper "Teaching and Learning", in 1995, and the Green Paper on Education, Education and Research, and stressed the need to find solutions for the transparency and recognition of qualifications in vocational and vocational education. In the process of adapting Slovenian legislation with the European Commission has assessed that the Slovenian professional address of a doctor or doctor of dentistry is misleading because there is already a professional subset of doctors in the Member States who carry the same professional title for another profession. With the proposed law on changes and additions to the law on professional and scientific addresses, we will allow for an appropriate change of the professional title for the profession of dentist from the doctor of dentistry or the doctor of dentistry to the doctor of dental medicine or the doctor of dental medicine. In the Liberal Democracy Club, together with members of the coalition, we have tabled an amendment to Article 3 of the Act, which regulates even more precisely the status of diplomat dentists and dentists and future diplomats and dentists. This amendment regulates the harmonisation and allocation of professional titles so that our graduates can enter the labour market in the countries of the European Union as soon as possible and that their situation will not be worse than that of the other members of the European Union who will be employed with us. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the amendment of the law, together with the amendment tabled, and we want our citizens to be successful in the profession of dentists in the other Member States of the European Union after the completion of their studies in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Colleague Janez Podobnik, Slovenian People's Party, cancels the presentation of the views. Thus, we have concluded the presentations of the parliamentary groups or their positions. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 27.5.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the LDS Parliamentary Club, the Joint Group of the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Minister, Dr. Gaber has your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u46	Mr Vice-President, I would like to point out by myself, given that there is no debate on this point, that the government will make an addition to Article 3 for the third reading, which will regulate the procedure on one side of the allocation of professional titles to the period in which new titles are to be issued, that is, three months from now. Until then, we are making it available to the higher education council and, before that, to the relevant university bodies, it is time for them to also formally change this title in their own procedures. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes Mr. Rudi Mogé. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Just procedural. Mr Minister, I understand that you want to complete what the second reading groups have tabled with the amendment in the third reading. So you're backing this amendment at second reading?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u49	That's correct, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much, both of you. This concludes the debate. We will vote on the amendment today at 6.25 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue the meeting at 12.40 p.m. with the 11th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law amending the Law on National Professional Qualifications. Thank you for your cooperation. By 12.40 a nice greeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u51	We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of a bill amending the Act on National Qualifying Invitations - a summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Government officials are already here. I give the floor to Mrs Staša Baloh Plahutnik, State Secretary for the introduction of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you. We have before us a change to the National Professional Qualifications Act. The purpose of this amendment is to amend the inspection body which checks and supervises the operation and implementation of this Act on national professional qualifications. The original version of the law provided for a special inspection to carry out these tasks. With regard to the reorganisation of the state administration and the new law on the functioning of the public administration, we have also proposed rationalisation in this direction to take over the tasks of the labour inspectorate, which will, above all, properly equip a number of inspectors to carry out these tasks. The advantage of this is precisely because the inspection service operates in the area and on this basis it will also be possible to carry out this work with the appropriate skills of inspectors throughout Slovenia. We therefore propose that you adopt the law as submitted. But it falls into the so-called package of European laws, because this change is the last legal change that remains as long as possible in the labour market and we want to make it happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. The chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, will present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I welcome everyone. The Committee considered the draft law at its 33rd regular session 7.5. Ms Staša Baloh Plahutnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and representative of the legislative and legal service, also participated in the work of the Committee. It follows from the written opinion submitted by the Legal and Legislative Service that the service did not have any comments which would be of a legal nature. Therefore, the examination of the law was also smooth. Only our colleague mag has tabled an amendment to the bill. Janez Petty Officer, who wasn't accepted. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons voted on the individual articles of the bill and adopted all the articles. Given that the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities, as a parent working body, has not adopted any amendments to the draft law, the Committee notes that a meeting of the National Assembly discusses and votes on the draft law in the text, as presented in the legislative procedure or in the text published in Rapporteur No. 22/this year of 7.3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you, chairman of the committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I'll call those who are present. Slovenian national party, instead of colleague Barovic, Mr Sašo Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u56	Your Honor! After our assessment and after reading the explanation of the reasons, objectives and principles stated by the proposer in the content of the law, we estimate that this is another meaningless law under Slovenian law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia assures us that, in the case of this law, it is in compliance with EU legislation or directives of Slovenian legislation. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, we cannot attach an assessment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when, as a proposaler, it claims that institutional and organisational supervision will be established through the adoption of the law. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that this law will have only two consequences. The first is that we will be able to say that we have also incorporated this component into Slovenian legislation, and the second is the creation of new jobs and thus an increase in the number of employees in public administration. As we have already discussed the previous item of the agenda at today's meeting on public administration and have also given the views of the Slovenian National Party on its inadequacy or as an element in our society that causes both the public financial crisis and the transparency of non-transparentness, we estimate that it is entirely irrelevant in this area to establish what the government claims, i.e. institutional and organisational inspection, this law is adopted or supported. More interestingly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to convince the members of the National Assembly and the public accompanying us, how it makes sense to approach the adoption of this law, especially under the pretext of assessing the financial implications of the State Budget Act, where the work indicates that it is a new public administration staff, it also indicates the number of new jobs and, on the other hand, it further states in the same sentence how it makes sense because they once planned much more employment in this area. It seems to us that this humiliation of the National Assembly - that they say 'but we once thought that there would be a lot more needed, and now we are proud because we only legitimize them so little'. At the same time, it should be stressed that the public sector is not the one, at least not in our country, unfortunately not in our country, who, in addition to the number of employees it already has, would be carrying those elements that would encourage employment in our country. But macroeconomic policy or individual segments of macroeconomic policy are different, both by the government on the one hand and according to the National Party completely flawed. We won't support the law because we don't see anything meaningful in it. And it is even more painful and meaningless to adopt the law simply by hiring some new employees in the public sector through law. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could come in a different form before this national assembly for this purpose. In short, we estimate that this is one of those laws that I don't want to sound too harsh, but that it's one of those laws that wastes our time and that no one will ever heed. We will not support this law in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you. It's in the order in which you're here. Ms. Silva Montenegro, United List of Social Democrats. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, welcome Secretary of State Staša Baloh Plahutnik, warmly greeted colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the Act on Amendments to the Law on National Professional Qualifications, which was annexed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. This proposed amendment represents a less difficult alignment of the already adopted law on national professional qualifications with the acquis of the European Union and the fulfilment of commitments from the negotiating centres and the national programme by taking over the acquis of the European Union. We will support the proposed amendment of the National Professional Qualifications Act in the United Social Democrats Group, as the current regulation foresees that a special labour inspector and the fact that the planned reorganisation and rationalisation of the state administration will be established within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, including an inspection for professional qualifications into the organisational structure of the existing work inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, who acts as a body in the system and consists of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This is also relevant and similar in view of the comparative presentation of the regime in other European Union countries. As in most countries of the European Union, the proposaler has chosen from an organisational, financial and human resources perspective the most rational and optimal solution that does not require additional resources, since he already has a qualified and specialised staff, labour inspectors who will only have to be further trained for the professional qualification segment. And if I add that the Ministry has 100 qualified labour inspectors who have a high education and a professional exam for an inspector for a job. It is said that there are no additional jobs. It will thus be achieved that the professional qualifications segment will be integrated and organised and will not interfere substantively and professionally with the control of the legality of work, the implementation of procedures for the identification and validation of professional qualifications and the legality and expertise of the work of the Commissions. Similarly and subject to this amendment, institutional and organisationally qualified inspections will be carried out in the field of professional qualifications, which we believe in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, which is extremely important because of the increasing specialisation in the field and the increasing complexity and quality of training, and in particular due to the establishment of a stable labour market. And if I am even more precise, in order to establish a stable employment policy and in conjunction with the full employment system, which is so important to our Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats that we will therefore offer a proposal in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you. My friend Stanislav Brenčič would like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much. In any event, it is necessary to maintain or establish some kind of institutional control over the work and legality of operators and the commission established by law, both in checking the conditions and other criteria. Who does this institutional oversight, however, is not as important a question as how it is carried out. We almost see no point in establishing a completely new inspectorate or a new inspector for this area if this area can be carried out by a work inspector in accordance with the field of work. That is why we support the law in this regard and will be able to support it without any difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you. We're done with this. Procedural? He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you. In order to clarify the third point of the assessment of the financial implications of the State Budget Act, it will be necessary to provide funds for two new jobs for the exercise of control over the legality of work in the field of professional qualifications, as assessed by the applicant, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So much for not hiring again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you. No amendments were adopted by the working body to the draft law, and no amendments were tabled at the meeting of the assembly. It is also not possible to discuss articles and amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 6.25 p.m. I'm breaking up the agenda with this. We will continue the meeting with the 12th item of the agenda at 1:15 p.m. until then, we will have a recess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u64	We're moving on to 12. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BANKING LEGISLATION, PRINCIPLE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representatives of the government who have just arrived at the meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the Government to further explain the bill. Master Matthew More or Mr. Zunich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u65	Dear Mr President, honourable Members! Nice to meet you! I have been given five minutes to introduce a bill amending and supplementing the Banking Act following a reduced procedure. The purpose of these amendments to the Banking Act is essentially for two basic reasons. The first reason is to fully harmonise the existing law with the directives of the European Community. This is a matter of three basic elements, where we are in line with the directives of the European Community. This is a banking directive, first of all, which relates mainly to deposit guarantees. Secondly, it is a matter of adapting capital adequacy or calculating capital adequacy, making it possible to use internal models in banks, provided that banks will then also prove that these internal models are effective, which will be demonstrated by a specific procedure and supervised by the central bank. The third reason for the harmonisation of European Community directives is in the recommendations "PR Review", which visited Slovenia in 2001. This PR Review then indicated that the whole situation in Slovenia is very good in terms of banking law, in particular in terms of the effectiveness of the Super Audit and in terms of ensuring the conditions for, say, realisation of the elements of the Basel Agreement number two and so on number one. However, there have been some recommendations, which are also being taken into account from this point of view. In the case of a qualified proportion, according to the amendment number one, which somehow would have said very important in this law, the prior consent of the Bank of Slovenia in obtaining a qualified share is introduced. Those who do not obtain prior consent will have to sell these shares within a certain period of time, as in the proposal for a law, or in fact lose all material rights from shares. Another very important element is the qualified share of the bank that it acquires abroad. The Bank of Slovenia must inform the bank which acquires this share in advance. The third important element of the changes is the introduction of internal models where both credit and market risks introduce the possibility of obtaining information inside the bank and outside the bank using data time series and using internal models, such as credit risk using credit analysis and e.g. migration matrix, for market risks using a risk model, where subsequent testing reveals how the performance of a bank in comparable banks abroad and at home. So, things are going in the direction of comparisons, in the direction of development, modeling and in the direction of a common denominator in determining bank performances, for example, for ratings where a letter of rating means, irrespective of the location of the bank or business, the same thing, whether located in Slovenia or located somewhere in France, Germany and so on. The fourth thing that is very important is to tighten requirements for members of the board. The fifth thing, which is very important, is to raise or adjust the guarantee for deposits from 4.2 million to 5.1 million SIT. And the sixth thing is the possibility of an out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. Finally, it is important that the bank's allowed exposure to persons with a special relationship rises from 5% to 10%, with the number of persons also changing or the number of persons identified as being specifically in a specific relationship being also changed and the ownership of the bank clearly states that the natural person should not exceed 5% of the capital and that the legal person should not exceed 10 capital if he does not have the status [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u66	You'll have to finish, Mr. Secretary of State. Time's up. Thank you for the introductory explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and I ask the Committee Chairman, colleague Cyril Puck, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It's very difficult to speak in front of so few audiences in such an important marriage, but this is also happening, so I'm going to be brief. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered those amendments following a reduced procedure at its regular 36th meeting on 8 May this year. We have identified or presented the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, from which it is consistent with the Constitution and the legal system. Within the time limit laid down in Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of qualified candidates, two parliamentary groups, namely the New Slovenia Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, tabled amendments to Articles 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 14, 25, 26 and 27 of the Act. The members of the Committee were also provided with or provided with "Comparative review of criteria for obtaining a qualified share of banks" prepared by the research sector of the National Assembly at the request of the Committee at the time of its consideration of the report on banking supervision for 2001 and the first half of 2002. In the context of the second reading, a discussion was held on individual amendments. In particular, the applicant’s additional opinion was expressed that the law was aimed at finalising compliance with the European Union Directives, in particular the Banking Directive, the Capital adequacy Directive 2 and the Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive. In the context of this examination, the Committee decided on the amended articles of the law. After the vote, he drew up his proposal, the amended draft law, which was adopted by the two amendments mentioned above, the following amendments: the first amendment to Article 14 and the amendment to Article 27, then the amended amendments to Article 7, 10 and the second amendment to Article 24. The Committee, however, rejected the amendments to Articles 3, 4, 9, 25 and 26 of the Law. The Committee also adopted the following amendments in accordance with its amendments: Articles 1, 3, 7, 9, 10, 14, 26, 38 and 50. I propose that we adopt the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I'll call as you're reported and present. Slovenian National Party, colleague of Sasha Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u69	Your Honors are here! The Banking Act is late. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the law should have been on our benches in 2000, if we wanted to, and all together, have a serious intention to establish one or more strong financial organisations that would survive in the long term in the new global market. Thus, the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank took place under the existing law. According to our assessment, if this law had been adopted at that time, this would not have occurred, in particular for two reasons: news on the timing of Banka Slovenije's consent, which has been redefined as the first stage of the acquisition of ownership shares, and secondly, in an additional explanation of Article 8 which discusses the possibilities of refusing to give consent. According to the draft law, which we support in the National Party, it is particularly important, after our assessment, to reject the request for extradition due to the legal or financial situation. In the national party, we estimate that if the bill had already been adopted in 2000, it would have prevented our assessment of the harmful sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, which you all know has not reached a quarter of the value of the rehabilitation programme. So not a quarter of what we received for the New Ljubljana Bank, which we citizens and citizens paid in the framework of the bank resolution bonds, which, in those moments, in 1994 and a few years later, cost us over 400 billion Slovenian tolars, at which the government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the proposal and requests of the current finance minister, Toneto Rope, today's Prime Minister, sold the bank for the fights some less than 100 billion Slovenian tolars. Of course, such "kiksi" in the functioning of liberal democracy and Slovenian governments are strongly reflected in public finances and the state of compulsory or public debt, which will ultimately burden every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. We fear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has deliberately delayed the submission of a proposal for a banking law into the procedure and thus achieved its effect, namely the sale of one part of the bank's assets. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that, in addition to this novelty brought by the Law amending and supplementing the Banking Act, we welcome two new developments in the Slovenian National Party, first of all: allowing greater control and supervision of banking institutions in our country, which has proved essential in recent years in particular, because we could all be witnesses together, i.e. all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that public finances and institutions dealing with these public finances are in great error, according to my assessment, intended to provide individual benefits from the common, or savings of several persons. Furthermore, we consider and welcome the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to set stricter conditions for the appointment of members of the bank administration. For we have witnessed the appointment of the New Ljubljana Bank, that there were names exclusively on the political line and the key to moving one and the same person from one administration to another administration. When one of the administrations destroys one of them, he goes to the other's seat. I would like to touch on the future when discussing the law on changes and additions to the banking law. While we have already stressed that the history of Slovenian banking is unfortunately inadequate under the rule of liberal democracy and has caused billions of damages, I am afraid that this pace of work which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has and in the absence of related laws, especially the law on the implementation of the budget, where the National Assembly has given light to the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will begin with the activities of linking banks, in particular the New Credit Bank of Maribor with the Postal Bank of Slovenia, thereby allowing another strong pillar, not only the foreign pillar called Nova Ljubljanska Banka, but also allowing the Ministry of Finance to cease its activities in connection with this act. In the Slovenian National Party, we also assess that it would be very sensible for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to finally take the position that the majority of European countries have in view of the need for a nation, a country, to maintain a strong and healthy part of banking in their own hands. We sincerely hope that the law will be passed because it is a good law, and secondly, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent ministry will no longer delay the procedures for the merger of the New Credit Bank and the Postal Bank of Slovenia. Unfortunately, as I said, the law is late, and if we accepted it three years ago, we would have done the country an extremely great service. But of course, the government must attribute itself to its bad work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thanks, buddy. The United List of Social Democrats; the position will be presented by colleague Leopold Grošelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u71	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We support the amendments and additions to the Banking Act in the United Nations Social Democrats Group, as they are undoubtedly necessary to comply with the European Banking Directives. In addition, we consider it important and necessary to review and assess solutions in legislation relating to the effectiveness of supervision in banks. We have also been clearly reminded of certain shortcomings by the reviews of the World Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that banking experts have carefully examined the observations of the institutions in preparing the amendments and supplementing the Banking Act, as well as the shortcomings in the controls that have proved to be in practice, and have adequately ensured their resolution with the proposed amendments. In our view, in the solutions offered, it is important to ensure that Banka Slovenije's permission is made compulsory before obtaining a qualified share in the bank, which will probably prevent future practice from making possible mistakes, as in the case of the purchase of a SIB bank, since we are confident that Banka Slovenije would in such cases only warn the interested buyer of the individual bank of the failure to carry out the transaction and do whatever is necessary to ensure the security of the commissioners in such banks after the sale. The solutions proposed also provide real options for the Bank of Slovenia [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] the determination of the elimination of infringements in the event of errors, which will further allow greater control and efficiency in the supervision of banking transactions. [[...]] They may also be extremely important in the case of investments in foreign financial organisations which may jeopardise the Bank's capital adequacy or prevent it from operating in contravention of the risk management rules, as amendments to the Banka Slovenije Act provide a prior notification of any such investment. The proposed changes relating to stricter conditions to be met by candidates for bank management are also positive, as they will increase the responsibility of institutions to agree on who is trusted to manage banking transactions, as banking transactions are essentially built on the trust of investors in banks and their management, and are also confidential and sensitive in the event of irregularities. Finally, in the proposed amendments, it also seems important that we raise the amount of guaranteed deposits with the investor in the bank from the current 4.2 million SIT to 5 million. In the UK Group, we will therefore support the law, together with the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because we believe that this is a law that increases transparency and security in banking and can contribute to reducing future risks of similar errors as we have seen in recent times. Any change in banking legislation towards increased supervision of responsible institutions, led by Banka with Banka Slovenije, and increasing the responsibility of bank administrations is only welcome to our sending group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you. I give up this role of debate on my own. Otherwise, we'll support the marriage. I give my word to Cyril Pucko, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports these changes and additions mainly because the solutions envisaged constitute a sharpening of the current provisions of the law. In particular those relating to the acquisition of a qualified share in a bank, by requiring that a person who has acquired or wished to acquire a qualified share must, before the transaction itself, apply and obtain the permission of the Bank of Slovenia; those which relates to the tightening of sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the law in obtaining a qualified share in a bank and, in this regard, to the imposition of a positive presumption of silence by the Authority in the event that the Bank of Slovenia does not decide on the request for authorisation within the time limit laid down by the Bank of Slovenia's law; those which provides for investments by Slovenian banks abroad, which is an area outside the European Union, either for the purchase of banks abroad or for the acquisition of a share by means of a proposal to introduce a preliminary notice to the supervisor by law, so that the Bank of this type of transaction will have knowledge of the Bank of Slovenia; and the issue of the integrity of the members of the Bank's Board of the application of the application of the Bank. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia also supports those standards, which on the one hand mean pardons, because we believe that banks must have good shareholders, so we support the increase in credit exposure to important shareholders from 10% to 20% and support the increase in the bank's ownership threshold, according to which a person is considered to be in a special relationship with the bank, from 5% to 10% - share in capital or voting rights, as well as an increase in the percentage for the sum of these exposures from 100% to 200%. We also believe that the bank must have a high-quality portfolio, which means it credits good committees. And these are usually her shareholders. The proposed limit is stricter than the general limit on maximum exposure to individual persons, which is 25% of the capital under the European Directive. The other two alternatives are poor owners and good commentants on the investment side or good owners and poor commentants are significantly worse opportunities than the variant of good owners and good commentants, at the same time "criminal" in quotes, to banks owned by Slovenian shareholders. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much for this debate. And also the Slovenian People's Party, colleague Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Initially, I would agree with the thought expressed by Comrade Pucka when he spoke on behalf of the committee that we have a very important marriage ahead of us. As far as the number of Members and Members is concerned, I can tell you from Brussels that very important laws in the European Parliament are spoken of by very few Members and Members or listened to them - they say so in front of an empty hall. When they vote, one seat is not empty. This is this European experience, and it seems that we will have to get used to convincing those in the particular area of "speakers" for a particular area. Since colleague Trofenik is absent this afternoon, Members have authorized me to present the position of the Group of Members on my own. We support the proposed amendments to the Banking Act in the Slovenian People's Party or in the parliamentary group. However, given the content and scope of the amendments, it could be concluded that we did have a weak legal basis, in particular in the area of ownership and acquisition of banks and related persons, and in particular in the area of their control and implementation of the provisions on Banka Slovenije measures relating to the supervision of banks and other financial organisations linked thereto. In this regard, if we are very current, also the new composition of the Bank of Slovenia - in these days the president of the country also consults with the leaders of the parliamentary groups - it is likely that the time has come for more experts to be appointed to the Bank of Slovenia's world, not as a professional authority in monetary policy, but in particular as an authority and a credible person in the area of control. This is also advised by European experts. Only a good two more years will the Bank of Slovenia have strong monetary powers, and then these will, unfortunately, to some extent be extinguished. The law also welcomes the proposed amendments, which provide for a more efficient and out-of-court settlement of disputes between banking service providers and consumers. We also find the proposed amendments that have been tabled by the two parliamentary groups on the proposal - I don't know if there will be any debate about them today because there are no candidates in the plenary. Before entering the European Union, the Slovenian banking system is particularly exposed again. We can see that it is dominated mainly by one bank, which is owned by the majority state, foreign owners are only present in the minority, owners are some medium-sized banks. We have a difficult task ahead of us to combine two interests, and both are national interests; how to solve the square circle, so that we will maintain the Slovenian ownership of banks as much as possible and that these will also be competitive. This is a challenge for Slovenian political space and, above all, banking space. In our view, banking services are still very expensive. Bank profits, however, are mainly products of indexation of banking services. Despite the apparent large number of banks breaking up on a small Slovenian market, competition is not. The bank offer is one-way. In particular, it encourages lending to households and small economies and credits for cars and real estate. And who's in the best position? As a rule, large Slovenian companies, which are also large shareholders of banks and share high bank dividends, have access to substantially cheaper foreign banking services. That's real practice. Today, several times has been said what is the cause of the proposed changes. Indeed, part of the argument is in full compliance with the directives of the European Union. But only part. As my colleague Grošelj has already mentioned, in particular, the eminent foreign professional institutions, when overseeing the work of Slovenian banks, have found some shortcomings or irregularities in the last few years in the operations of our banks. And that is also the argument that we have before us a proposed amendment to the law. Last but not least, the affair of the Slovenian Investment Bank has besieged the proposer and also the legislator to face this issue. When Governor Mitja Gaspari answered the fourth question of the National Assembly, he made it clear that the proposed amendment of the Banking Act brought two important novelties here, as the Bank of Slovenia is not going to issue licences for obtaining a qualified share back. So, after already executed purchases of bank shares, but the proposal introduces an institute of prior authorisation to acquire a qualified share in the bank. May I continue on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u76	I'm just asking for closure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u77	I'd like to spend a complicated performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u78	You also have a certain time in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u79	Then I'll call you back?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u80	Yes, please. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u81	Allow the Group of Members to take full advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u82	Including the time you have planned. That's five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'll check in later.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u84	This concludes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We will guide it on the basis of a review of the amendments of 27.5. You can see from the review that the proposed amendments to the Banking Act, second reading, are proposed amendments to Articles 3, 9, 14, and 26. All proposals are submitted by Members of the New Slovenia Group, the Social Democratic Party. I'll open the debate. First, on Article 3 and the amendment of the three groups of Members to Article 3. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u85	Mr Vice-President, I would like to know whether this amendment supports or not. Because I would also, on this basis, initiate my own debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u86	Government, you have the floor. Kolga Podobnik, if you turn off.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u87	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Madam Members of Parliament! The Government does not agree with the proposed amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 3? He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u89	I must be honest with you that I agree with Mr Podobnik and I think that at this point we are considering one such important law that the government should only say something more than whether it agrees or not. And to explain the reasons why the amendment's proposal is to Article 3 and, as a result, I want the government to define itself substantively to all the articles, to say why the proposal is pointless and what would be worse or what would be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you. Is there any way he can rule the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u91	In explaining the amendment, we find that the existing article actually provides very non-transparent control over what is going on with connected persons. The transition to a share that means the management of a company or a bank would, of course, be a very exact possibility of control or control over the entire business. Now, as is the case with the law, it never knows exactly when a company or a bank connected to capital is subject to such supervision and sanctions and when it is not. In this case, however, it would be very accurate to know. That is why I do not think that this is primarily about easing the conditions as described in the explanation for the article, but rather about proposing that, in line with what is already present in Europe and elsewhere in more developed banking systems, there should be a possibility of monitoring on a much more transparent basis by clearly stating that the company under control is subject to supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you. Anybody else want to talk about Article 3? He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u93	I personally think it makes sense for us to stop around this proposal for a moment longer than we planned. I am sorry that the amendments proposed by the two groups of Members are not in session today. However, I think that this Article 3 is also strongly linked to the presentation of the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which identified the relationship between entrepreneurship and between the bank. The question of the meaning of such integration, if the bank’s ownership share is large, strong Slovenian companies, on the one hand, which dictate the pace of behaviour on the market, on the other hand, rent credit abroad. Since this assumption, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, holds, your answer cannot be credible, at least in our eyes. It still seems to me that it makes sense to support the amendment in Article 3, because, as it is written, we are achieving just better banking by adopting this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Thank the Secretary of State for his reply. In my opinion, he was not convincing when he argued the reasons why the government did not support this amendment. From the material that I have acquired, it is stated that international banking standards are imposing increasingly strict conditions on shareholders' exposure to the bank. If we go to a practice that is potentially possible or can be said to have already happened, I set up or buy a bank, and then I rent loans with it. In fact, the proposed amendment strengthens the prevention of this possibility. The government was nicer here. Isn't the experience of one of the Slovenian banks and everything that happened to it an argument to support the amendment that was written down? Because, in Article 3, paragraph 7, of the law, I went then to see this material, if I saw it correctly, by deleting it, by sharpening this possibility, and it seems to me that this would also be within the meaning of the decision of the national assembly when we considered the issue of supervision at the SIB bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u96	Anyone else want a word on Article 3 and the amendment? No, no, no. We conclude the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article. I shall put into discussion Article 9 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to Article 9. Who wants a word? He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u97	I would announce only so much as here, and that I would not then ask for the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on these amendments; and by 9, 14 and 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you. In one sentence, can you say this government support or not support? Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Therefore, in all articles relating to any related person or persons in a special relationship with the bank, we believe that it is necessary to allow bank supervision in a transparent manner, namely that the allowed exposure to persons in a special relationship is raised from 5 to 10% and from 10 to 20. In addition, from the point of view of ownership, it is very clear that 5% of the limit is in the case of a natural person, where it is still permitted that the natural person is not in a special relationship with the bank, and 10% is in the case of legal persons, where the legal person is allowed not to be in a special relationship with the bank. The government supports the law or we cannot support the reasoning to Article 9 because we believe that this would eliminate the fundamental basis so that we can transparently exercise control over banking. It is therefore also a mechanism that clearly allows sanctions. It is clearly written down, and this mechanism is that if a qualified share is obtained outside, for example, in a way where the Bank of Slovenia does not give prior consent then of course the sanction is, I think, strong enough; that is to say that such a bank loses the possibility of material rights on such shares or has to withdraw it from its portfolio at a certain time. Of course, in order to make this article more effective, and as far as I know, there has been a reduction in the time frame for committees to do so from 12 months to 6 months and even 3 months. However, I think it is quite clear that this is the period that allows for efficient business and normal business, of course, of those investors who do not invest due to qualified shares, but have their shares that are less than 10% mainly for portfolio reasons, because if they went into stricter restrictions, they would in fact make one part of the market impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you, Prime Minister. You've been taking advantage of that for quite some time. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u101	I'm sorry. I note that the Government is not prepared at all to explain the amendments tabled by the two parliamentary groups, because the fact that, at least in Article 9, proposal 9 can be understood differently. We can understand it, as the proposaler also understands, that if we did not adopt the amendment to Article 9, it would mean that we agree with the proposed addition to Article 21, which in the correlation, if we sum up the company law, would also allow for a repetition of the BTC story. So, I'm just assessing that the impact of connected persons on the one hand and on the other hand, the time-sale of shares or equity in banks is so strong that, of course, this particular dictatorship of yours in law will allow for a single and very high enrichment of individuals who will only be on the market at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you, Vice President. With regard to Article 9 and the amendment, I would like to say that it is clear from the Committee's material that this is an amendment to the Committee, but another option is set out in the last paragraph, namely that one of the panel's panellists pointed out the possibility of speculative profits obtained on the basis of the purchase or disposal of shares without the permission of the Bank of Slovenia, namely the withdrawal of capital gains and that the members of the Committee agreed that it would be reasonable to examine the appropriate solution to this problem until the third reading. Therefore, if I understand correctly from this record, then it is necessary not to support the amendment of Article 9 in order to delete the article, but to supplement this amendment until the third reading. Is that an interpretation? That's one question. The second question relates to the content itself or Article 9 and some others, which is the issue of bank supervision. The government representative mentioned this briefly. Here I would ask the government's representatives if they are thinking about whether there is a debate, and this public debate, on the issue of bank supervision, showed that in Slovenia almost all supervisory financial institutions are linked to the supervision of banks and that, in terms of rationalisation and better functioning, a legal basis for pooling all supervisory financial institutions should be prepared as soon as possible. And I believe, as I know, that one European directive is already one that sends national legislators to look for a legal basis and therefore combine supervisory financial institutions. The SIB’s affair, however, is a direct reason for us to do so in Slovenia as soon as possible. Are you thinking at the Ministry of Finance about preparing an appropriate legal basis for such mergers?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u104	Despite the time spent, if no one opposes an explanation from the government, I would ask the government to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I would just mention or respond in a way that would give a reference. When we wrote our response to the SIB, we have already written very clearly that one of the things in the system legislation relating to the financial system, the government supports the possibility of combining all three supervisory functions, both the supervisory function of banks and the supervisory function of insurance companies, as well as the supervision of the securities market, and this is also written in that material. Thus, in this context, the matter, at least there, has already been clearly expressed by the government's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you. My colleague Peca, next to Article 9 of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u107	I think, given that we have two hours of reserved time left, we can extend this point a little bit; however, I would like to hear from the representative of the government his argument on the amendment's motion. The proposed provision, i.e. your rule of law, would allow, for example, NLB shares owned by the State in the short term or up to one year on a relatively shallow Slovenian market, temporary holders to sell them after Slovenia's entry into the EU with large capital gains to those who will meet the conditions for obtaining a prior authorisation from the Bank of Slovenia. To the extent that this claim is held at least a little, and it is pure speculation, I think that neither this speculation nor the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can accept it. And if this claim is true, then of course the amendment of the applicants is justified. Please, if you answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thanks, buddy. I'll ask you again if you'd like me to give the floor to a representative of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. So today this question has been mentioned several times already, how it is with the ownership of the Ljubljana Bank. First of all, it is very clear what the ownership structure of the Ljubljana Bank is like. The country currently owns 35.7% of the shares, then the KAD and SOD 5 funds are each, EBRD 5%, KBC 34% and the remaining shareholders 15%. Now, this ownership structure, according to all participating shareholders in the Supervisory Council, provides a long-term balanced structure of the bank, which is and will be guided by the principles of modern corporate governance and is also happy with regard to the assessments of some independent observers, including some international institutions, which consider or assess that such a bank's equity structure in essence provides a long-term stable strategy for the bank, not only in the field of internal development of the bank, it is said that technological development, technological processes and "human resource management", but also in the area of the bank's strategic position on the market. This ownership structure does not mean that the bank is taken over by any shareholder and also in the long term means that the bank would not in the future provide normal transactions of any shareholders not directly in the supervisory world or representing the status of minority shareholders [[We're talking about these today.]] . The Bank also has this clearly set out in the strategy on how this status will be regulated. And I don't see any problems with this Article 9 here, because this deadline, which is cut from one year to six months and then to three months, practically prevents transactions from happening in some effective way; it is said that one of the minority shareholders could buy a bank on a relatively shallow market and then, I don't know, sell it significantly more at some point. I think this is a very elegant matter to be resolved in this article. We have also studied this issue in the government once again - to resolve it with some appropriate reduction in this deadline. It is said that when a person acquires shares in a non-transparent way, which means without the consent of the central bank, then this means that he simply has to withdraw them from his portfolio as soon as possible or lose all material rights, in accordance with the proposal of this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u111	A short replica or correction of your instructions. The fact is that you have correctly identified the ownership structure in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, but you probably know that in 2005 this ownership structure will turn completely into the benefit of foreigners. Well, this was advocated by Finance Minister Tone Rop, when he was a finance minister, and that privatisation is at various stages and that in 2005 there will be a modified ownership structure. In addition, I think it makes sense that the government had already called for cooperation on the exchange of ownership relations and also domestic institutional investors, which in the end turned out to be a bad thing because there was no interest because the government was not enough, in my opinion, to enrich its offers. And here I ask you whether the individual investors will not be invited by the government, as is institutional? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thanks, buddy. Anyone else want to discuss Article 9? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 9 and the amendment to this Article. I am opening the debate on Article 14 and the amendment to this Article, the same groups of Members. My friend Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u113	As far as the amendment to Article 14 is concerned, I must say that we support it in the Slovenian National Party without any doubt, because according to our assessment, the adoption or movement of one half per fifth is in the sense that it will indicate the independence of the Supervisory Board with the connected persons and prevent the individuality of the transactions. Therefore, I think it makes sense for the National Assembly to adopt an amendment to article 14 of the proposed or mentioned law, precisely because of the connection of individuals in our society with legal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I also believe that the arguments to support this amendment are in the palm of our hand. In the view of the Group of Members, it would also be advisable to support the amendments because the current solution, as proposed by the Government, reduces the standard that has made it impossible to be part of the bodies of those who have been too exposed to the bank. This is especially true of those who have rented loans. As I said earlier, international banking standards are increasingly tightening the exposure of shareholders to the bank. And here the question of questionable business relations always opens. At a bank that I own or even buy, I rent a loan. And the amendment to Article 14 tries to prevent such an possibility. Otherwise, the existing limit would have been further reduced by now. This would be particularly true for investors who, say, are so important, I speak for Slovenian cases that they are co-owners of banks and also have their representatives in the supervisory board of the bank. If their current restrictions harm them, I do not know their position to them, then they can withdraw their representative from the Supervisory Board and, of course, rent credit anywhere else in the Slovenian or foreign financial market. So, I expect the government to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you. Anyone else to Article 14? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 14 and the amendment to this Article. I am also putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to Article 26. Who wants a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u117	When we vote on Article 14 in the evening, we will not know what the government's position on this amendment is. It's an awkward force when it comes to making decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u118	I will ask again if you allow me, a word to the representative of the Government, to clarify the position to Article 14. And then we go back to the debate on Article 14, just to get an explanation, the position of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u119	So the government's point of view is as follows. We believe that, by deleting Article 26, we are essentially incapacitated. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u120	I'm sorry, Article 14, if you can give your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u121	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u122	a specific question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u123	With regard to the members of the supervisory board in the bank, I see no reason personally not to support the amendment. By making the only problem possible, then this flexibility is that if we say one-fifth or one-third, we increase the possibility that if there are less than five members of the Supervisory Board, then one-fifth of course is somehow difficult to express. However, I see no reason why this amendment should not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you. I conclude the debate on Article 14 and reopen the debate on Article 26 and the amendment to Article 26. Anybody want a word? Nobody. So I can also ask you here about the government's position, with your permission, if no one would mind? I ask the representative of the Government, the position on Article 26 and the amendment of the groups of Members to Article 26.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u125	Yes, thank you very much. So the government's position is that if article 26 of the amendment is deleted, in fact, we will in some way prevent the normal functioning of banks because the status of persons with a special relationship with the bank in Slovenia is so often intertwined and the likelihood that a person in a special relationship in the current percentages is so high that it is virtually very difficult to find a person who is not in a special relationship. Therefore, by raising these percentages in the bill we have essentially enabled the normal operation of banks - in what has already been mentioned today - we have made it possible to effectively credit even those which are in some sense connected in the current law, and have, say, 6 or 7 percent, to 10 percent. This would significantly increase the number of persons in business, in the business relationship of the bank, but would not in any way, in our opinion and on the basis of past experience, thus, of course, increase the risk concentration of banks. Because this is the basic criterion that we designed in assessing these percentages. In fact, the basic purpose of telecommunications - including in the European directives - is to be, of course, too many persons in a specific relationship with the bank, to say that if an individual is too much of a special proportion, either on the capital side or on the part of participation through the supervisory board and bank administrations, then automatically means a very high level of risk and risk correlation. We have also calculated this issue several times in recent years, even through the use of modern methods - here again, I can say that it is fairly reliable - and we have found that this percentage, if raised to 10% and defined to 5% in natural persons, and in legal to 10%, does not in any way change this fact to the extent that this risk is so concentrated that it is already impossible to control risks to increase the risk concentration to a significant extent. I think it is much more important that the law allows for the complementary use of internal models, which has now been somewhat irregular in Slovenia. This use of internal models is in fact based on self-examination, on self-assessment, on the verification of risks through a much larger range of information, data, external and internal, through the application of such statistical and other methods, which means that the performance of the bank is measured in some internationally comparable way, for each bank and for each legal person. And this is what I think is essential from the point of view of the government. This is what complimentaryly then allows this, I would say, rigour of attempts through some sanctions, percentages of capital, limitations, maximum and so on to relax a little bit and from this point of view also much more, I would say to this, a market-based and some modern banking approach to the whole matter. And I think from the point of view of the government, that's just fine. Therefore, I believe that the deletion of this article means exactly the opposite - meaning that with some degree of mistrust in the application of these modern approaches, we would simply try to ignore this complementary effect of these other aspects in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before I give you a word for which you only have a few seconds left, would I ask if anyone else who still has time at hand would like to discuss it? Otherwise, I would conclude the debate and give, within the scope of option under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, an opportunity to discuss those who still have time at their disposal. Would any of the other participants like to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I will then conclude this part of the debate and give an opportunity under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. That is why I call on all those who wish to discuss it. He's a friend of mine. A representative of the government, if it is necessary, then there will be no embarrassment. If not, I give my word to my fellow seal. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u127	So, if I understand correctly now, the government representative did not want to get the words in order to answer me within the time available. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u128	Or he's not experienced enough in cooperation with the National Assembly. I'll give you my word if he's called for a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u129	Look, in your explanation of article 26, I wonder if I've got it right. So, you wanted to tell this national council that in fact people are connected in Slovenia and that it is impossible to accept the amendments or it is pointless to accept the amendment of the candidates because then the wrong ones would come nowhere, because they are all connected and therefore make sense to raise or change percentages. Did I get you guys right? Is it just because there are so many connected people in this loving country? Then I misunderstood you and I am also withdrawing from further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thanks, buddy. I'd like a representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u131	I'm sorry. I'll try to be more clear now. I just wanted to say that if some mechanisms are released on the basis of greater responsibility of banks, on the basis of greater powers, which clearly allows for that European directive, which I mentioned at the outset, in the introduction, means that the bank actually becomes self-responsibility, but this self-responsibility is controlled, "ex post" is checked in a completely transparent, internationally transparent way. I personally participated in the research organized by Standard and Poor, an international organisation, a rating organization where 46 banks were involved, of which 20 were the largest banks in the world, and the rest was continental, and I coordinated this research from the point of view of Slovenia and also one bank from Slovenia participated in this study. The results were extremely good. It is precisely this hypothesis that, if it goes in this direction, as proposed by the other complementary articles, it must also go to release those restrictions that actually prevent the implementation of these models. And I was just talking about it, not that there are too many connected people in Slovenia. If this were the only way to do so, we should certainly not allow ourselves to relax because this would only cause additional damage. I don't know where to put this. It's just that, for example, in road traffic, instead of putting cops on every intersection, let's say, traffic lights. Something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you. I believe that I can conclude this debate on the amendments. Thank you for your cooperation. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 6 p.m. and 25 minutes. I'm breaking this agenda. We will continue the meeting at 3 p.m. 55 minutes with a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police, which is the 14th item of the agenda. Until then, we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u133	Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr Minister, representative of the government, welcome to all! We're moving to 14. Dot of the Day - First Commentary Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, there is a group of ten Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! The Police Act was passed in 1998 and it was the first time that it regulated the police as a body in its composition. With this, the police gained independence, became a direct budget user and a new relationship between the police as a body in the composition and the Ministry of the Interior. It was therefore essential to establish supervisory relations, powers, powers established between the Ministry and the police. In this regard, we have accumulated a number of experiences that have led to the need to amend the law. In addition, a number of other issues from experience in this area have led to a number of other changes. Let me give you a few of these, Your Honor, but let me give you a little more light. In the terms of the amendment to the Police Law, we regulate the legal basis for the relationship between the Ministry of the Interior and the police, which acts as a body within the Ministry; we lay down powers in relation to the police and the duties of the Director-General in relation to the Minister. Due to the legal relationship that the police have as a detection body in the pre-trial procedure with the state prosecutor, we propose - this is very important - that the Minister should be restricted to directing and giving instructions to the police from the moment the prosecutor is involved in the criminal proceedings. This restriction would apply only to police procedures whose guidance under the law on criminal proceedings is taken by the competent state prosecutor. And we are proposing another important innovation in the area of control. Indeed, in order to regulate effective control, we propose that the supervision be carried out by officials of the Ministry who have police powers in the exercise of supervision, as well as by the powers to enable these officials of the Ministry to exercise their control in a smooth and effective manner. Because of your information, I should say that the supervision exercised by the Ministry all these years is carried out in a variety of ways. Thus, for example, through reporting requirements - the police get a reporting request only in the first five months. In 2003, 98 such reporting requirements were submitted to the police. Second, through analysis of documents transmitted by the police to the Ministry [[These are various reports, half-yearly, annual reports on the implementation of tasks, half-yearly monitoring reports, internal investigations, monthly reports on hidden investigative measures, complaints against police procedures and the like]] . In addition, monitoring shall also be carried out through reports from other institutions such as the State Prosecutor's Office, the Ombudsman and civil society, of course, as well as direct controls as a form of regular, extraordinary and re-monitoring. In short, the first part of the changes relates to the strengthening of relations, direction and control and thus the relationship between the ministry and the police, which should lead to even greater efficiency in this area and also establish a relationship that has been guided by experience. In this regard, in particular, I would like to justify why employees exercising control should be given police powers. In carrying out the control activity, it is possible for the employees of the Ministry of the Interior to determine the suspicion of the service of a deviant act and the suspicion of such an act, which may be a crime, to be investigated under the applicable rules. The only officers responsible for this are police officers who are accountable to their police leaders, and there can be doubts as to the impartiality of the investigation of an offence. It is therefore necessary to allow the Ministry of the Interior’s supervisors to carry out a police investigation into the exercise of the supervisory function. This is not a parallel police organisation, as these officers with police powers will not be authorized to investigate the criminal offences of third parties, but only to investigate alleged irregularities and suspicions of crimes committed by police officers as well as police workers. They also have such experience in other countries, and we have examined Austria, Germany, the United Kingdom, where there are also regulations that give jurisdiction to investigate police officers, and such recommendations are also made by committees against torture and inhumane behaviour. The other large component relates to complaints. In this regard, we have also drawn attention to the recommendation of the UN Torture Committee, as well as to civil society, and not least to the internal policy committee of the National Assembly. The essence of these recommendations is the commitment to create an effective, reliable and independent system for the immediate impartial investigation and treatment of allegations of mistreatment and torture by the police, and also to punish the perpetrators. In order to eliminate the untrust of the complainants, to increase the contradiction of the procedure, to the public of the procedure and thus to improve fairness, we propose a new legal regime for complaints that should be brought closer to the final objective, which can also lead to police complaints being resolved outside the Ministry within a fully independent unit. Well, we propose a step in this kind of reconciliation process with the police leader and the treatment, if this process fails, on the Senate, which is composed of several parties from the local community, the professional public, including the union, although this is precisely the union's issue in these Chambers one of the issues that will still need to be addressed in the law-making process. A third important content set, this is a police mandate in case of family violence. Since I'm running out of time, I'm not going to deal with it in any particular way. I would like to remind you - if I may - for five seconds - of the placement of coercive resources in the law and of some new developments that are linked to the greater effectiveness of the prosecution of terrorism. I propose that, in support of the Internal Policy Committee, the law be supported and discussed further in the third procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, Mrs. Maja Zupan, who isn't. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u136	Your Honors are here! As I have heard a very good sentence in connection with the police, and I think it makes sense to say it in the context of today's consideration of the point. As a rule, cops are targets of ridicule, swearing and shouting. But when we need them, when we're scared, and when we're alone in a dark street, they're the people we see most. In short, we estimate that or that the profession of being a police officer in our society is often undervalued and that we do not appreciate it on purpose or because of development. The Police Act, sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, regulates quite a few relationships. And if we go in the right order. For the first time; regulating the situation between the Ministry of Interior and the police in relation to Point 2, this is police control; in the Slovenian National Party, we fear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to restore the situation that we have already witnessed in Slovenia. This is when once the Defence Minister in this country almost carried out a coup in a separate republic. The bright point of the law is only one. This is a new approach to dealing with domestic violence. This is the only point we see in the national party that makes sense under the law. Sadly, though, this is only one of the most extensive marriages. In the Slovenian National Party, we have always been at strong starting points or hard points where we have ensured that the police, not any other service in this country, must not be under the influence of the current policy. And according to our assessment, the minister, the competent minister, is trying to create with the new provisions of the law precisely that we will have a police state in the country to have the police in control in all segments. So in regulating relationships, in mandatory instructions, in guidelines and in the final phase in the form of control. It seems unacceptable to us that after ten and a few years of independence in this country we will be able to reach a level where one political authority or a narrow group or group composed of the current authorities will lead the work of the police, guide and supervise it. Of course, matters could be compared to events from 50 years ago that began in Germany. Something like that or something like that happened at the time. And where he brought police surveillance or political surveillance of the police, we probably all know. I personally appreciate, and I am very sorry that the law, which has been quite talked about, has been very promising and has also, in our opinion, been falsely presented in public many times, contained only one positive thing. We also believe that this positive thing, which the law contains in its provisions, can be shaped in the form of either a provisional decision or an adoption under any other law. The fact is, the Slovenian National Party cannot land and will not vote for the introduction of a police state. It will not give an individual political party to control an institution as strong an institution with such powers, tasks, rights and duties as the police. We believe in the independence of the police, and we believe that the relations that should be regulated or exercised within the police remit should not be allowed or allowed by Slovenian politicians to carry out their way of life and their programming towards people through the police. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. There is no representative of the Social Democratic Party between us. The position of the Member State of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Master Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister and Fellow Fellow, Dear Fellows and Fellow Members! In the public, it is quite often possible to note comments on the behaviour of the Slovenian police, which, on the one hand, is perceived to be of insufficient efficiency and, on the other hand, excessive use of force. Each time, the Ombudsman's report also draws attention to some unacceptable procedures in the work of the police. These include warnings from NGOs, the latest report by the United Nations Committee against Torture and the opinion of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights. The latter are mainly related to comments on the investigation of police procedures, but a report by the US State Department on human rights for the police found that it was under effective civilian control, although in some cases it violated human rights. However, police violence is one of the most common violations of human rights in the world, and the public's sensitivity to such offences is also increasing for us, especially in order to respond to complaints by the police and thus to the related degree of independence of the investigation of police procedures. Thus, the issue of where the Slovenian police will focus in the future: whether it will be a repressive body or it will build trust in people. Therefore, we see the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Police Act in the United List of Social Democrats as an attempt to upgrade the proposer five years ago to adopt a law that first regulated the organisation, functions and competences of the police as a body within the Ministry of the Interior, thereby giving the police greater autonomy and its dependence on politics has been reduced. At the same time, the proposed law responds to some of the most social problems which, due to the prevalence and problems faced by the State in solving them, require a solution as soon as possible. If the police are indeed to ensure a high level of legal and personal security for people and their property, first and foremost, the safety of people's lives and their property against the dangers of criminal behaviour, but also the relatively high level of legal certainty of the perpetrators of these acts in police procedures, which will be achieved through the consistent exercise of police control, in particular in the use of police powers and enforcement resources. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, it seems important for us to take into account the Ombudsman's initiative to regulate the conditions for the use of coercive funds in the drafting of the text. Since the applicant has also consulted NGOs, trade unions, prominent representatives of the professional public and others, it is hoped that their comments, as well as the comments of Members and Members, will find their place in the amendments to the proposed text and that the text will be improved in the second reading, in line with the announced objectives and principles. I will limit myself to only three proposed solutions, namely police control, appeal proceedings and a restraining order. For quality police control, it is essential that we establish a legal basis for a quality and effective relationship between the Ministry and the Minister, on the one hand, and the police and the general directors of the police, on the other. In this respect, it shows that the envisaged supervisory role of Ministry staff in the performance of police tasks is particularly highlighted in Article 2b. They must have police powers and are equal in the exercise of control in their rights and duties with the police. However, the proposal foresees another, for effective and smooth surveillance of police work, necessary powers, but also with the necessary limitations. The envisaged transfer of the appeal procedure with the police to the Ministry improves the current practice, which does not arouse overconfidence in the public, mainly due to published statistics, whereby police find a very low percentage of the eligibility of complaints, which are highly inconsistent with the current public opinion on police conduct, mainly due to individual very rebuttal cases. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have doubts as to the appropriateness of the proposed composition of the Senate, appointed by the Minister. The idea concerns a union representative. It would be more appropriate to be replaced by a representative of the professional public or by another representative of the public. This would strengthen the independence of the Senate's supervisory role. The third proposed amendment that I will talk about is a restraining order, we support in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, although we know the warnings of the professional public that the legislator should not accept it. We expect that all other necessary legal corrections will be adopted as quickly as possible to enable the implementation of the measure and the achievement of the stated objective, which is the protection of victims of family violence. From what we have said and anything else that will be added in the debate below, by our parliamentary group, we are therefore adopting the proposed text of the law on amendments and additions to the law on police as a suitable basis for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the distinguished minister and to all present! According to the applicant, during the implementation of the Police Act there was a need to supplement the individual content governed by this Act. Some of the solutions in this law have proved to be insufficiently premeditated during implementation to allow different interpretations. The last thing we need is a different interpretation of the protection of human rights in police procedures. In order to reduce police violations and to improve the protection of human rights, many countries have already implemented or are currently implementing reforms of the police control system, and it is clear that the system must continue to develop in Slovenia, as well as in the area of police surveillance. The effectiveness of the police is certainly also important. We therefore also support the proposal's intention to regulate the legal basis for the quality and effectiveness of the Ministry's relationship to the police as a body within the Ministry's composition in a proposal for amendments and addition to the law on police. The establishment of the Minister's powers vis-à-vis the police and the duties of the Director-General of the Police in relation to the Ministry is a necessity, in my view. In particular, I welcome the solution in the proposal to address citizens' complaints from the police to the Ministry of the Interior. I believe that a step in the right direction is the solution for a complaint by an individual who thinks that police action or abandonment of an act violates his or her rights or freedoms, first of all, to be dealt with by the head of the police's organisational unit in which the police officer works. And if the complainant does not agree with the President's findings, the complaint shall be resolved at the Ministry, with the cooperation of the representatives of the public and the union. So, let me put it this way, a civilian will deal with a complaint. This seems very important, but the question is whether we do not have to go any further than we are warned by the civil sphere. The fact is that the State has so far not done enough to ensure effective police control and therefore a systemic approach may be needed, including the transfer of certain powers of police control to external institutions. This would indeed ensure the independence and independence of the supervisory authorities. As the proposed regulation of the new appeal procedure cannot provide for a completely impartial and independent examination and handling of the complaint and effective control of the police, as this can only be achieved through an appeal procedure before an independent external authority. However, as has already been said, the proposed new regime, despite the fact that the procedure remains within the Ministry, provides an opportunity for a step towards a more impartial and objective handling of complaints against the police. However, such a step is only possible provided that the proposed regulation lays down mechanisms to prevent abuse of procedure and impartiality and objectivity. For details, time will be later, but we are already proposing some amendments to Article 15 of the Law. We propose that, in order to ensure legal certainty in the second paragraph of Article 15 of the proposed law amending and supplementing the Police Act, it be stipulated that in a conciliation interview and an agreement that is crucial for further action on the complaint, a record and an informal note shall be kept We further propose that the third paragraph of Article 15 explicitly lays down cases in which the so-called conciliation procedure will not be carried out. We propose that, in Article 15, paragraph 3, the whole file should immediately be waived to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, even if the complainant does not respond to the interview, and not only in cases where the complainant disagrees or disagrees with the findings of the Chief of Police. We propose that the representative of the union be deleted in paragraph 4 because we believe that the participation of representatives of the union in the resolution of complaints is contrary to the principle of impartiality in the procedure and that another representative of the public would be involved in the case. The other harmonisations contained in the provisions of the bill and the provisions which are important for the effective and effective work of the police, taking into account the Ombudsman's initiative to regulate the conditions for the use of coercive funds, are supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the Police Act. In view of the content, we estimate that we will take a few steps forward with this novel. First of all, the novel clearly regulates the relationship between the Minister and the Director-General of Police. We believe that it is high time for the relationship between the Minister and the Director-General of the Police to be settled, since civil society must maintain control and influence over the police. Thus, through elected representatives, citizens can influence the choice and work of a minister to whom the police are clearly subordinated. The Minister, who is responsible for the work of the police, does not, of course, have a sufficiently clear relationship with the police or its Director-General, so these solutions are more appropriate in the novel. The operational supervision of police work will, of course, be carried out by Ministry officials with police powers, which is also one of the steps in terms of overseeing civil society over the police. It is right that the novel foresees that the Minister may assign certain tasks to the police and report thereon. Finally, it is right that the novel specify the duty of the Director-General of Police to report regularly or at the request of the Minister on the work, his work and the work of the police. Of course, the novelty is also more effective because it increases the public's influence in the appeals proceedings on the work of the police. We were already reminded of the inappropriateness of the current appeal procedure by the Ombudsman in his regular annual report, where he also cited specific cases. In addition, the Internal Policy Committee of this National Assembly adopted a recommendation on the consideration of the Ombudsman's report recommending that the Government amend the appeal procedure because the existing one no longer enjoys public confidence. Something will have to be done further on this issue, but more than once. It also seems important to us that in the novel we have a new institution or new authority for the police to prevent domestic violence. All are familiar with cases of family violence that we can read about daily in the black chronicle. But sometimes even television screens can be broken into with the most tragic endings. In such cases, the epilogue almost follows the rule and says that the police acted within the scope of the legal powers and that the tragedy could not be prevented. This is unfortunately true, so we believe that a step forward is needed in this area and that police officers will be able to remove the bully from the family in particular for a period of time. The change in this direction was also expected from us by the Ombudsman, who drew attention to the country's inability to prevent violence between the four walls, with more and more women being exposed in addition to family members, as statistics indicate an increase in violence against women. Let us also hope that this instrument will improve the situation in this area. Once again, in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the amendment of the law on police.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We will hear the last position, namely the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, presented by Mr Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, Secretary of State and co-workers, colleague Kangler, who covers this area in our Group of Members and is also expertly qualified in this area, is on a business trip abroad and has appointed me to take the position of the Group of Members. After five years, a good five years, it is time for the legislator - first of all, the one who proposes a change of law - to consider what has happened in the last five years when the Republic of Slovenia passed a new law on police. It was a time of turbulence, a time of different interpretations, a time of criticism of the police, and a time when the Slovenian police were especially placed on their feet. This debate, today's debate, I would not like to intrude as a criticism, just a criticism of the functioning of the police. This debate should also be an opportunity for a policeman to be valid: that it is an honorable job, that it is a responsible job, a professional and dedicated work; but that it is always a work that is sensitive, because in its activities it touches every citizen and citizen - it can be touched. During this time you have also witnessed some disagreements and prestigious struggles regarding the legal powers between the Interior Minister and the Police Director. It is our opinion that he is so the director of the police that he has done his job well. That he fought for his space under the sun. He used to face the minister. And, also, the minister fought for his space under the sun, and that's why we witnessed such a prestigious battle. In recent years, there have also been problems in the field of human resources policy. The issue of material currently remains - the technical conditions of its services. There are still structural problems that have been emerging for many years. The media image of Slovenian police is the same as it is, but it is not easy to have a good media image. Here I would like to point out that today Slovenia's Amnesty International published the latest Amnesty International report for 2002. This time this report is not available in Slovenia; it was last year, 2001 and 2000. It's not mentioned this time. However, Slovenian Amnesty International still mentioned the issue of police violence and appeals and then focused on the law that we are talking about today. As colleagues have already said, they also interfere with the perceptions of ineffective external control over the functioning of police officers. They are also reflected in the reports of some international organisations. At this point, we could also join the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights and some non-governmental organisations in the field of human rights protection, so that there is a need to ensure and ensure continuous effective external control over the functioning of the police. In particular, by including representatives of the professional public and civil society. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we support the changes in the resolution of complaints. The Commissions will also include persons outside the police, representatives of the public and trade unions. This ensures greater impartiality and reliability of the complaints commissions. In our opinion, it would also suggest that some powers should be enacted to allow for the verification of the integrity of police officers in the exercise of police powers, particularly the so-called integrity test, which is increasingly being exercised in countries with a significantly lower level of such corruption, which, unfortunately, we have already seen. We particularly want to welcome those provisions in the bill that enable the police to prevent domestic violence. We believe that the power of the police to prevent individuals from approaching certain persons, places or areas for a certain period of time is an appropriate basis for more effective preventive action in the field of family violence. Otherwise, we join those who believe that this area must be left to other institutions and that it is not in principle the responsibility of the police alone. We need to mention a particular area, this is the staffing situation in the Slovenian police. In our party, we are convinced that we should assess the consequences of the rapid exchange of police officers in the most responsible positions and that we should regulate this area in a very appropriate and sensitive manner. It is unacceptable, in our view, that interventions to the professionality of police work are still possible, in an administrative way, even with mass retirement. However, there is a lack of provisions in the parliamentary group to re-establish police relations with companies, which could seriously jeopardise the impartiality of the exercise of police powers. For example, the last case was a publicly known case when the management of the Ljubljana Police Administration met at the premises of the Triglav Insurance Company, where an investigation was conducted at the time due to the suspicion of the crime service. This shows that such a relationship will have to be settled on a new basis. Some, however, may have to go completely into oblivion and perhaps suggest that such a relationship should be regulated by a specific agreement on a conflict of interest. As it is said, in the second and third readings, we will actively cooperate and hope that the procedure will be so that we can finally unanimously support the amendments and additions to the law on police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Valentin Pohorec was wrongly stated in the examination we have to discuss it on his behalf; the Group of Members correctly declared it. I therefore give him the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary and co-workers! Our Group believes that, after five years, it is time to submit changes and additions to the law on police, because time dictates changes, practice suggests the need for some things to change and complement, because there are also methods, a way of working the opposite side of the police, according to those to which the police are primarily intended, in the direction of development, unfortunately on the negative side. Of course, the news brought by this law has been carefully studied and accepted in our parliamentary group. We believe that the debate and possible amendments to the text so far will improve and that the law on adoption will end, and we will be actively involved in this. We therefore believe that there is a well-prepared question of jurisdiction or the exercise of powers, including from the point of view of the Ministry of Internal Affairs over the work of the police, which has now not been resolved in the law, but in another sub-legislative act, particularly in cases of possible infringements, therefore alleged violations, fundamental human rights, freedoms and respect for the legality and constitutionality. The supervision of police work, i.e. with special police powers, is accepted as an appropriate form to be defined in the law as well. In doing so, we are thinking of the part where there is no room to control the highest authority of the police, because in fact it cannot control itself in some parts. This relationship between the Ministry and the police is therefore more regulated in this law than in another act. An important issue addressed by the amendment of the law is the use of secret measures that can seriously affect the privacy of an individual and thus increase the attention in the amendment of the law. It is again regulated by the relationship between the prosecution and the police in the pre-trial procedure, which in many cases has also been unclear in practice, or then an excuse for what the police should have done or what the prosecution should have done. The law re-examines the use of coercive measures in the face of various types of violence, particularly domestic violence and the extra-marital community. There are general conditions for the use of coercive means, especially firearms, which is particularly controversial in the event of events, because in practice some cases have been detected when firearms have been used, unfortunately also with the result of death. Now it will be regulated not in the law, but in the law itself. The area of complaints with public participation is regulated and regulated, and we also welcome that this will be better regulated than it is today, even though in some way it has been present now. And because of the changed law on military duty it has become a problem - or it will become a future - to complete the reserve in the police. That's what the new law will do. We believe that the new law provides a transparent and well-ordered area of competence, from a police officer, a police station, police administration to the general police administration and, of course, the Ministry of the Interior. Due to the emergence of all forms of endangering the security of citizens, state and private property, drug trafficking, white goods, money laundering, terrorism and other negative phenomena, there are always new challenges to the police, as well as new challenges, and there must also be opportunities in the law. We are present with numerous complaints against the police, cited by the Ombudsman - we do not approve of them if they are actually done, but unfortunately we are present with numerous attempts and even actual physical attacks against the police and even attempted killings by those who do not respect the laws, which is particularly present in road traffic cases when dealing with offences, measures against the offender and so on are in place. Special tasks - Schengen and other new challenges. We therefore support the proposal of the law and will continue to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Zupan is not here, and Mr. Kelemina is not. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go. You're giving up. Mr Lavrinc - he is not either, Mr Podobnik. Thank you very much. Mr. Sok is gone, and Mr. Pukšič is not. Mr Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister, coworkers! Every time we talk about legislation governing the powers of the repressive authorities, which the police are no doubt, the question arises as to where the limit is when a policeman can use coercive means. At the same time, there is always a dilemma as to how a police officer should act if his intervention is excessively limited. As the applicant points out, firearms are the worst kind of coercive means that a police officer can use to carry out police duties and thereby encroach on human rights and freedoms, including the constitutional right to life and personal integrity. Penalties allowing the use of firearms as an extreme means of coercion should be narrowed to a minimum. This, now proposed, is too large in my opinion. I agree that the police are a body within the Ministry, not only because of formal regulation, of the relationship relating to the law on state administration, but also because of the sensitivity of its work, as it exercises powers which may significantly affect human rights and its freedoms. Therefore, the relations and responsibilities between the Ministry, the police or the general police administration must be clearly regulated. The practice has shown that, for example, all irregularities in the work of the police regarding their powers in the public sector are addressed directly to the Ministry and the Ministry, after several times in explaining their irregularities, the force sounds inconclusive when it explains that certain delays or oversteps in the powers of the police are only the responsibility of the general police administration and that the Ministry is therefore almost powerless. Such a situation does not contribute to the reputation of the Ministry or the General Police Administration or police, so it is necessary to define transparently the tasks, responsibilities and responsibilities of the Ministry in relation to the police and vice versa. I am convinced that such definitions can contribute to greater professionalism of the police and can also contribute to its greater reputation and public confidence, as well as to the building of greater authority on this basis. From this point of view, it will probably be necessary to cut into the police law again. In this direction, however, there are also these amendments and additions, and I support them, and I believe that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would just like to give a little more reason for my support for that proposal or part of the law that speaks of the use of special powers of the police in relation to the prohibition of approximation. I think it took a long time to admit that domestic violence was happening. Even more time to find out from the projections that a home for women and children is often one of the most dangerous environments and thus overcome the stable view that what is going on behind the four walls should remain behind them, no matter how severe the consequences. Only when I think about the data that can be read in different statistics for Europe, and in particular for Russia, can one be amazed at what we can do to one another. That is why I am one of those who accept this proposed amendment to the Police Act as an extremely courageous act, even because it was not possible to overhear the warning that, by introducing this repressive measure, we are, however, reducing the rights of others. It is the right to freedom of movement and the right to family and private life. However, when there are two rights on the scale that collide with each other, I think there is an absolute advantage here to the right of the victim of a violent act. When I, as a member of the Internal Policy Committee, participated in several meetings of the Parliamentary Committees on Equal Opportunities and Human Rights, I had the opportunity to learn an Austrian solution, one that was followed by the drafters of the Slovenian Police Act. It is true that some of the solutions in Austrian law are slightly different than the legal circumstances in us, but I think that we need to start somewhere. And if the police are given the authority to remove the abuser for 72 hours and to extend it accordingly, it will nevertheless be a good enough basis for all those measures to follow. This will also be a good incentive for all other ministries to complement the relevant changes, and I am also thinking of all those procedures that will affect not only the victims of violence but also the abuser, because I believe that he is in urgent need of rehabilitation. I see this solution as an appropriate solution because I do not think that the victim is the one who would have been forced to seek adequate space for himself in the already impossible circumstances of violence, depending on the number of safe houses, maternity homes or other suitable shelters where women with children can run away, so little, and the country in my opinion would not have borne the burden of placing more safe houses, and it is also pointless to avoid those suffering in this case. From personal experience, not their own, but from those cases I know from my environment, I can say that the consequences for the experience and life of those who have long suffered various forms of domestic violence are such that, when such a person decides to leave the environment of violence and humiliation, such a decision is only short-lived. And since the victim is in a vicious circle of insurmountable situations, he returns to an environment that is only escalating and not shrinking. That is why I think the proposed amendment to the law is worthy of support and, of course, I thank the applicants once again for the courage with which they have included it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Personally, I believe that the Police Act is a good basis for further consideration, although I believe that one part of this law is regulated, in particular the part that I am talking about concerning the relationship between the Minister and the Director-General of Police, and the issue of control that we are essentially interfering with this part of the law just because of the problem of personal nature, on the one hand. In the past, I think the police, particularly at its top, have driven an understanding of the autonomy of the police to extremes. This is shown by the fact that the police want to decide for themselves, but let it be about what part of the meal in the budget will they have, to whom and in what way, if at all, to be responsible for their work and who, if at all, should we interfere with its organisation. This was also followed by the work of the Director-General of Police, who, in my opinion, appeared in the public past to be more than a policy, rather than a senior state official. It seems to me that the hierarchy is upside down and the police have been in the past over the Ministry rather than the other way around. It is only recently that the minister has somehow created order and started directing this police, giving them instructions and, I hope, also overseeing it. In this regard, I cannot go beyond the statement made by a former senior police officer, who said that it seems that the independence of the police was created more because some counted on the position of Director-General and would like to have as much free hands as possible, rather than because of the argument of expertise that they are always hiding behind. Of course, I do not think it was good that, in the past, the Ministry has repeatedly stressed itself in public, not just during the current minister's period, but that the ministry will not be involved in the professional work of the police. This is water on the mill already mentioned understanding the autonomy of the police and I think this is wrong. The law seems clear enough for me now. The police cannot and must not set themselves a priority, a framework independent of politics. He can't act like he's living his life and the country's in the country. The Minister has the right and duty to direct and supervise the work of the police as a body within the Ministry, and this has already been the case since the law in force. However, the Director-General of the Police must follow the guidelines, mandatory instructions and tasks of the Minister and report to him regularly on the performance of the tasks. Of course, this does not mean that, if I may call it that, politics would direct police investigations. Issues relating to the control of police operations, its direction and development of human rights protection and freedoms in the forecasting process, criminality and the strategy to combat various forms of crime are issues to which the whole society has and must have an interest, not just a brush around the Director-General of the Police. I therefore believe that the novel sets out more clearly the relationship, although it might be possible to establish these relations more clearly in the past. I would also touch on the issues or areas of the appeal procedure. I believe that this appeal procedure will need to be further finalized, so that it will in fact, but not only appear to increase the public's influence, impartiality and objectivity. I am talking about the need to cut into the provisions that speak of the composition of the Senate that decides on complaints in such a way as to exclude the representatives of the union. I don't think it's necessary to stress, because the union representative is -- here my colleague warns me -- the union representative has another function. However, it would, of course, be necessary to give more influence to civil society. Also with regard to the conciliation procedure, which is not now regulated, there would be a need for further clarification, in particular as regards the question, or the official note, the minutes and so on. In general, once again, the law is a suitable basis, and I hope that we will complete it in the second and third readings in the directions I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Petan is not here, neither is Mr Petan. In this part, when MEPs and Members are notified in advance, I give the floor to the Minister and then, given that we have a general debate and that the time, including the obstruction of the two parliamentary groups, has not yet expired, I will ask again who else would like to discuss. Then, Mr. Jasha, when we've finished this part. So in this part I give the floor to the Minister and then we can go another round. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. I would like to say that I thank you for supporting the main thrusts of the amendment of the law, which, in my firm belief, expresses a good understanding of the issue in the National Assembly on the issues on which the talks are, both the issues of the relations between the Ministry and the police, the phenomenon of autonomy, as well as other such issues. However, it is wrong to believe that the novelty would not be necessary as regards the relationship between the Ministry and the police and the new legal arrangements for the supervisory function if there were no current Minister and current Director-General in these places. This question may have been raised on a number of occasions in public, but in any event it would be necessary to supplement the law in this part. It must be said that the concept of police as an organ within the Ministry is a very new concept, significantly different from the one before. And it took some experience - we now have this experience - to consolidate the knowledge that we can legally regulate the relations we are now proposing. These legal relations are based on the principle that, as far as the police are professionally independent and professionally operated, they investigate, the more powerful they must be in control of it. Therefore, the supervisory functions, the supervisory mechanisms, the approaches we are introducing are of paramount importance for a properly regulated establishment of relations between one institution and another. Of course, we leaned not only on experience but also on science, expertise and, if you wish, judicature. In a way, paradoxically, however, the constitutional initiative has also brought some benefits because the Constitutional Court has taken very explicit views on these issues, which we have used in designing the upgrading of these relations. And that. The complexity of the powers in this area has led us to order an in-depth expertise from the Faculty of Law experts, from which we have actually drawn on the upgrade of this arrangement. In fact, two of the key novelties are that there is a clearly drawn line to which the Minister can give direction and direction to the police as regards investigative procedures. This section is time-definitioned from the moment the prosecutor takes over the prosecution. Of course, this applies exclusively to the police work that is to be done with crime by criminal proceedings. And another very important novelty that you have noticed and attached to it is that control of this species must be that control of this type, that the ability in particularly complex cases is also used by supervisors to investigate the case in an original and not just to engage the police for these purposes. This seems to me to be two very important innovations, in addition to the one, of course, which is notable and which stems from the State Administration Act, when it determines the relationship between the ministry and the body in the composition, which we have transferred as a general arrangement to this area. I would like to tell my colleague Vukko that there is yet another new development in relation to these relations, a novelty introduced by the Law on Public Servants on 28 June. On the contrary, there will be no further doubts and possible politicisation in this regard, whether the Director-General of the Police is a political official or a civil servant, or as a law on public servants, is a real official in the position.After July 28th, this regime enters into force, and it is quite clear that the Head of the Authority is an administrative manager, an official in office and not a political official; there was no doubt that he is a politician and that he must do so. Of course, this does not mean that the Ministry's control through an expert group through the Office means any political control and is a political intervention. That is why this is such a sensitive issue, it is right to increase or make this standardisation even more accurate. Secondly, I think that the debate has strongly established the necessity of monitoring under the conditions of police independence. I would say that control does not begin now with the amendment of the law, but that the Ministry has been in control since 1998 and since the beginning of our mandate. Let me tell you that only last year or so far, we have exercised exceptional and renewed control over the implementation of covert investigation measures and the use of resources for specific purposes; that we have exercised control over the professionality and legality of police detentions; that we have exercised control over the sharing and disposal of residences and passenger or service cars; that we have exercised control over the implementation of a covert investigation measure on telecommunications control by listening to and recording; that we have exercised regular control over the use of coercive resources; and that two other controls are planned in 2003 over the legality of the processing of personal data in public records, the control of the legality and professionality of the exercise of the seizure authority; and that there are currently regular controls on the use of coercive resources; and that two other controls are planned in 2003 on police seizures of liberty and on the implementation of the recommendation of the anti-tortion committee and the security of the centre of human rights. All these controls have a red thread of respect for human rights and freedoms in the use of police powers. In short, control takes place, but we get a new, stronger and clearer legal basis. There's something else about the complaints. I am anchoring the debate and we will also engage ourselves in completing the proposed provisions, both of which you have mentioned here, as to what will be the legal act on reconciliation. It must certainly be such that it is signed by both parties; the complainant and the police leader, whether it will be a record or be called otherwise, is unlikely to be a mere official note. I also attach to the debate on the composition of the Senate and, in fact, the inequitableness of a union participating in the Senate as an advocate of one party and of the claim that it should also be a representative of the professional public. I think that the suggestion we have heard about the initiation of the Senate hearing procedure, if the complainant does not respond to the comparison, is also acceptable. In short, there is much that we can further refine in the debates. However, I would say that today's handling of police complaints takes place in a relatively objective manner, but within the police, the number of well-founded complaints increases from 13.5% in 2001 to 15.5% in the previous year. On the other hand, the number of police complaints in absolute terms falls from 1240 in 2001 to 1222 in the following year, 2002. Otherwise, the direction that we are taking in completing this institute is one that is also supported by most of the debaters. And I'd like to say something else in support of that acquisition, which is for the new police authority to ban the approach. In 2001, the police dealt with a number of family-related crimes, and the number of these crimes increased significantly. Twenty-three crimes of murder compared to 17 in the year before; 67 crimes of serious bodily harm compared to 26 years before; 218 crimes of violence compared to 141 crimes - much less in the year before. And all of this shows is that it only attaches to the argument of the urgency of the company's action in this area, the action in the direction for which most of the debaters also advocated. Another additional argument is that 10416 offences to the security of private premises are committed at a limit and the relationship between the offence and the crime is very limited. The police have no such authority or action in the event of an offence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. As we have exhausted the order of the Members and Members who have been notified, I am concluding the debate. However, since a certain time has not yet elapsed for this item of the agenda, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Yasza has called before. I'd like another word, because then we'll close the debate. No one else. Mr. Yasha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u156	I'll be very short. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u157	Five minutes is available, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u158	Yeah, well, I'm gonna be a lot shorter. Some of you still remember Matjaž Hanžk and his report as the Ombudsman. There were two horrible stories in his book. One terrible story was that the cops in Koper had a stick in their locker room, which, of course, worked, which they also used, and then Hanžek himself, after someone who had been locked up there for one night, told him where that stick was, and then a week later, that stick was still there and it intimidated everyone who came to the police station. The other thing was, which happened right in front of the Ministry of Home Affairs, where I also had to go several times in my younger years and it wasn't pleasant, I must say. There was a drug addict who was completely insecure, with a car running wild on Ljubljana and ended up right on Stefan's street, where he was somewhere between 10 and 14 fed cops - another I can't say - beating like a dog, a dead dog, that all these cops were bleeding from this miserable man's blood. The next day, in the Journal, there was a color photograph of this man, completely bloody, and with sadistic faces of cops who beat him with pendrakes. 21 people came forward as witnesses, and none of them could testify. These were people who were known in public, etc. Because of this, I simply - nothing has happened and therefore I do not believe that the police will change. As for the Senate and that the third member of the Senate is not a police officer, but he is a union member - I mean, this is really bad humor to Lady, I have no say in this. [[...]] It's that there are always two police officers against the third, and if he's a hundred times from the union, he's a police officer, and he's only second place he's a union member, and no one's gonna "paint me" by not being a cop, but he's just a colored unionist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today at 18.25 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and at 6.25 p.m. I invite you to the Chamber when we come to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. I thank the Minister and the representatives of the Ministry very much for their cooperation. And so we continue at 6:25 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u160	Dear Members and honourable Members, representatives and representatives of the government, good evening! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on legal examination, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 7. Voice explanation, Mrs. Maja Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Our Group of Members has tabled an amendment to Article 7, in order to try to clarify some of the possible incorrect definitions or answers for us. It is clear, therefore, that the Court has limited human resources needs. The proposal, however, provides for the mandatory conclusion of a working relationship for traineeship candidates in the judicial working relationship. However, this raises the question whether this also applies to the category of trainee candidates who will enter into a one-year working relationship with the court, which does not show the need for judicial staff. That would mean marrying the number of seats of these candidates. Therefore, we are asked what will happen to the candidates already registered on this list. Could the Secretary of State respond? In this respect, we have also tabled an amendment to define this issue more precisely.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Zupan, we held a debate in the National Assembly in the morning work at a regular point. I regret to inform you that the representatives of the government do not have the right to explain their vote at the vote. This is the only thing Members and Members in this evening's work, when we decide on individual points and amendments, have. So if there's any more explanation for the voice, Mr. Pache. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you. During the morning debate and the presentation of views and cooperation in the debate on this law, we have highlighted in the Slovenian National Party the main dilemma regarding the compulsory form of education, which will be defined in more detail in the sub-legislative act, with the bearers of the costs. Given that we have failed to clear this dilemma in the context of the debate, but later with the Secretary of State, who also said that the participants in these forms of education, which will be listed in the sub-laws, will not be burdened financially, so we will also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 7. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 14 votes against 47. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and thus the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. And we're moving on to the third reading. It's not working. It's okay. [[...]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been adopted to the amended proposal, it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a legislative decision. I also inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Vote explanation, Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. So, since we are voting on this amendment of the law, I would say that this law could be defined in a category slightly better than the softer thirsty. He's really not going to hurt, and he's not going to save a lot of things that have accumulated in this area. As we know, the basic problem of the area to be covered by this law is waiting periods in the courts for young trainees or young lawyers, and the matter is so acute that a complex law is likely to be needed for this area. And this is what we are trying to do with this change somehow, because obviously there is no willingness yet, there is no political will to cut into this problem, because we know that at this point there are thousands of young people waiting for this internship; this is already such a number that we should approach this problem a little more seriously and find the political will to do so. And worst of all, because the waiting period is on average 70 months - on average, but if we compare it to a doctor to wait 70 months for practice at the hospital, then we can imagine what would happen in that area. But here it is exactly the same, here we are treating other problems than in the medical field and because obviously this is already a third change, but there is no complex law, nor will this change fully or sufficiently solve this problem. That's why I don't think it's gonna hurt. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that in fact we cannot vote against it because it will not harm and it will not save, so that it is likely that everyone will make their own decision. At this time, however, we are counting on the government to take this seriously for hire and to come up with a complex proposal that will really solve this acute problem in its entirety. So we will vote each on our own conscience, because we know that we cannot expect solutions from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We heard an explanation for the voice. We can therefore move on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 53 votes against one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence t, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that neither the Government nor the legal and regulatory services have notified me that the law would be inconsistent. We therefore vote on the law. The explanation of vote, I interrupt the vote, I apologize. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. In the light of the Law on Public Servants and its Article 1, which deals with the composition of the public sector, including public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions, we estimate in the Slovenian National Party that this part of the public sector bears the greatest part of the blame for the non-transparent policy of the State and for the public-financial crisis, we will, of course, give support to that law, namely the law on excellence. For we consider that this can be one of those arguments and measures that will encourage this sector to make its work much more transparent, which is essential for the development of both the sector and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the interruption of the 10th item on the agenda - the consideration of the law on changes and additions to the law on professional and scientific terms, the reduced procedure. We will continue with the second reading - the decision on the amendment tabled, namely the first amendment of the LDS MPs and the members of the United List of Social Democrats, SLS and DeSUS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the draft law on the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended law and I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table an amendment to this article. Representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u169	So we propose to table an amendment to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on professional and scientific titles.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The government representative has already tabled an amendment. In this part, I will, of course, interrupt the consideration of this item of the agenda and ask the services to explain the amendment, and then, once we have completed all the items of the agenda, as long as the business conditions are met, we will also do this part of the debate. So I interrupt the 10th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - to deal with the proposal for a law amending the law on national professional qualifications, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since the mother's working body has not adopted amendments to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of amendments. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. An explanation for the vote, first Mr Pache, then Mr Drobnic. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u171	In the Slovenian National Party, we never believed in those laws written solely for themselves or because of government statistics. In the case of this law, however, we can say that this objective, which I have just mentioned, follows another objective, namely the employment of new people within the state sector. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it is wrong to do and wrong doing of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which attempts to introduce new jobs through these laws exclusively into the framework of the state apparatus. We estimate that unemployment cannot be solved in this way and that this only increases the lack of transparency in the public sector. In the National Party, we will oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. At the time of the adoption of the National Professional Qualifications Act, a dilemma was raised as to how to put this area: either to the Ministry of Education or to the Ministry of Labour. The decision was only for the Ministry of Labour, the key reason for the bill was that the Ministry of Education did not demonstrate sufficient flexibility to the challenges posed by lifelong learning and learning in new situations. So if we move the inspectorate, which touches the content of the education content, then I would judge that it goes to the education area, although the activity is a bit touchy or touchy to the field of work. Given that the labour inspectorate is, by its role, intended to inspect working relationships, we wonder how this inspectorate will perform its work in the field of knowledge standards. This, of course, belongs to the Ministry of Education and the Inspectorate, who is already doing such work. In fact, here I agree with my colleague Pecett that this could be done by the Ministry of Education. Otherwise, the idea that there is no need to set up another special inspectorate, this intention of the government is good and, of course, we are doing inappropriate. That's why I'm going to oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mrs. Jelinčič Noblenit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already proposed several times to increase the employment of Slovenian citizens and citizens, but we do not agree in this way, as in this bill, where two new jobs are being introduced, and if I am not mistaken, these are some of the related links that were currently without regulated status, but now they will get a good salary again, significantly higher than Members, probably also mobiles and means of transport. It's called state cars and so on. That is why I will be the same as any Slovenian national party against. I would like to ask you one more question, Madam President. We were in kindergarten, elementary school, but mostly at home we were taught basic art. I would therefore ask if you would point out to certain government representatives that when it is spoken before Parliament to stand up, other government representatives should not walk in here during the meeting of the National Assembly, but should go in the same way as most government representatives, where even ministers usually go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mrs. Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much. But I will for these very reasons, because I think that this change of law has shown that the government knows, it seems that for the first time it may have shown itself to be able to save and that it has been extremely rational, because the existing inspectorate for work seems to have used it in some way and already existing trained inspectors for work. [[These are one hundred]] , who have a high education and a professional examination, and with this amendment of the law will only further enable them to carry out this work, and it has shown that a person is mature and very responsible and rationally have the means. However, that there are some additional increases in the material obligations for the Ministry, I certainly do not, and I do not know where the Slovenian National Party has such information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We're moving to a vote on the law. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 47 votes against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment of the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party to Article 3. Voice explanation, Mr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. This amendment, which is now in Article 3, as proposed, which we propose to delete, changes the content of the concept, which is an indirect investment, which is in force in the current Article 10 of the Banking Act. This, however, is linked to the fourth and sixth paragraphs of Article 3 and, of course, to Article 462 of the Company Act. Throughout this, the proposer wants to achieve changes and additions as a specific investment by the bank in another legal entity to identify or narrow down only to controlling investments, i.e. those representing a majority equity share. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore wants to ease the conditions for identifying connected persons with the bank and thus enable even stronger capital connections between banks and legal entities, companies say. Such a proposal for the further development of a relatively small country in Slovenia is not appropriate. Its objective is only to increase the concentration of capital. The proposed amendment is not a factor that could affect the greater health of banks and transparency and the further development of the capital market in Slovenia, as it leads to the opposite effects. The link between companies and the bank in economic theory is not defined as a factor for faster economic development. They know it in Germany, but Germany has some specificity, which is not exactly here in Slovenia. In the United States, such a link is almost prohibited. However, the current development in Slovenia, as far as ownership and privatisation are concerned, has already allowed a relatively high level of capital concentration and the proposed changes would only increase it. It is therefore necessary to maintain the current regulation of the Banking Act and to strive to ensure that individual banks have as little capital linkage as possible with businesses. We therefore propose that you support this amendment and, of course, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u181	For about the same reason as the speaker put it before me and in the context of the positions presented in the debate on the Banking Act, because we also want to help our Group to make as little linkage as possible between banks and businesses in negative form, i.e. the form that will allow non-transparent and, in part, non-credible policy, we will support the amendment to Article 3 proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Therefore, we can move to a vote on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups to Article 3. We're voting! There are 64 of us present, 25 votes against 36. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the amendment to Article 3 has not been adopted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the same parliamentary groups to Article 9. Voice explanation, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you very much. With the proposed addition to Article 21, the government intends to allow for an untransparent concentration of capital in banking in a similar way as it has enabled companies to do so by regulation in the Company Act or by its provisions governing the purchase of their own shares. This is allowed in the 240th Article of the Company Act up to 10% of the basic capital. However, this share may also be temporarily exceeded without limitation, only subject to this sanction that the surplus of shares must be resold or eliminated within one year. Remember, fellas, BTC. The proposed provision would allow, for example, the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank owned by the State following the adoption of amendments to these supplements to be expected to be quoted on the stock market, to be picked up on a relatively shallow Slovenian capital market in a short time to one year by temporary portfolio holders who will sell them after Slovenia's entry into the EU with a large capital profit to those who will meet the conditions for obtaining a prior authorisation from the Bank of Slovenia. However, the State budget will remain to repeat a number of years of repayment of state debt, interest and principals. This creates the same conditions that made the case of Bank Koper possible. Do you remember Bank Koper? Only to an appropriate greater material extent. This Article must be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 9. We're voting! 65 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 38. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the same two parliamentary groups to Article 14. A voice explanation, Mr. Bajuk, then Mr. Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The Government shall explain the current arrangements or restrictions for the members of the Bank’s Supervisory Board in Article 29 as recklessly restrictive. That's all we've heard. And we have also heard today that it is recklessly restrictive. However, in terms of promoting transparent and responsible or healthy management of banks, it is not possible to agree. On the contrary, by the government, the proposed changes represent, from a national-economic point of view, a reckless easing of the conditions for bank management. Therefore, the amendment to Article 14 proposes an arrangement that still provides confidence in the transparent or sound management of banks. This article was adopted two years ago on behalf of transparency and compliance with European legislation. We will support this amendment for these very reasons. But I warn you, those who will vote in favour of this, that you will seek excuses in vain, because they are not there.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u187	As regards the explanation of vote and the reasons why we will vote in favour of the amendment to Article 14 in the Slovenian National Party, we have presented them in the context of the debate. I think it would be reasonable and correct for the leadership of the National Assembly to inform Members and Members who were not present at the time of the consideration of the said law and amendments that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had positively identified itself to the amendment proposal during the debate. Please, if you will do so, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. What you are warning me, just to clarify, is not my duty, Members and Members are closely monitoring the debates and have certainly seen them in the course of the debate. Vote explanation, Mr. Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'll support the amendment. Today, in the course of the debate, some Members with arguments in some way, I can say, convinced the Secretary of State that, at his last appearance, he said, after remembering that he had no argument to oppose the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment, however, refers to the following: The number of members of the Bank’s supervisory board associated with legal entities to which the bank’s net exposure exceeds 1% of the bank’s capital may reach a maximum of one fifth of all members of the Bank’s supervisory board. If you have looked closely at the law, the government proposes a third. I also believe that the complex spirit of amending the law is such that it simply urges us to support this amendment and, as it is said, the government representative has supported it. Our Group of Members will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this article, which in some way is trying to at least partially limit the influence of connected persons operating through the supervisory board of the bank. I hope that at this point there is no one among us who is unaware of the monstrous possible deformities, of the cases where they are sitting and deciding in a supervisory council or in some decisions only connected persons. I think the SIB case is so fresh, it has to sober us up. For SIB, it was only connected persons, not only politically connected persons, but, of course, only connected persons through the capital of banks. And once again, if this teaching of the SIB of the bank is not strong enough for Members, then I wonder what decisions and what solutions the fellow Members are taking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups to Article 14. We're voting. The 66th in attendance voted 29 to 34. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the same parliamentary groups to Article 26. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Article 26 of the proposed law should be deleted because, finally, with the proposed amendments to Article 4, paragraph 5, and Article 83, paragraph 6, of the current law, the Government now proposes to ease the existing criteria for determining the exposure of banks to persons in a specific relationship with the bank. Legal entities, as shareholders of shares, consider exposed persons to exceed 10% of voting rights in the bank, instead of the 5% so far. With the amendment of paragraph 4 of Article 83, the government even amends the definition so far that a person in a special relationship with a bank is no longer considered a legal person, since a member of the supervisory board is a member of the bank’s administration, the supervisory board of the bank or the procurator of the bank. The suspension of this criterion to define connected persons leads to the accumulation of the functions of management of the Slovenian economy in the same persons, in companies and banks, and to the related negative consequences for the economic and social development of the country. Therefore, it is not possible to adopt a proposal to amend the current provisions of Article 83. I would also like to point out that, in the original explanation of the proposal on this change, the government did not explain at all - there are no arguments. Today, we have also heard them in this hall, in addition to some view that it may be too burdensome and professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 26. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted to the amended proposal, no third reading of the amendments could be tabled. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. The government and the legal and regulatory services have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Explanation of the vote, Mr Pache, on the law as a whole. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u195	We have already said in the debate that the law is late according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party. Our assessment, too, that if the law in question had been passed in 2000, the Slovenian state would have endured much more than the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. This is one of the reasons why we will support the law, because in the final stage it will be followed or the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor is coming. On the other hand, the law, we estimate, brings quite a few novelties, namely concrete innovations. The first is that the buyer will have to get consent at a different time than before, that is, before the purchase of the bank. Furthermore, under Article 8 of the Law, Banka Slovenije will also have the possibility of refusing authorisation for reasons of legal and financial standing, for which I sincerely hope that Banka Slovenije will use the dictatorship when hostile acquisitions take place from abroad. In addition, we estimate that it makes sense within the framework of the law that more stringent conditions are laid down for the appointment of members of the bank's administration, which we estimate will be reflected mainly in the quality of the work and supervision of the bank's operations. At the same time, we regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly did not find so much wisdom in the debate on amendments and did not join in our assessment of a quality solution in the area of connected persons. As it is said, the law brings some new qualities that will be positive, according to our assessment, when the law is properly interpreted and when the law is properly applied, take place during a period of banking life. Once again, we regret that the National Assembly did not vote on the tightening and in the pronunciations, the "pronunciations" of business and the management of banks by connected persons. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mrs. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u197	Thank you very much. In this law, the government has changed as many as 50 articles. The proposed changes relate to several content sets. However, the difficulties of amendments are not changes and adaptations to European directives, but adaptation to the internal situation. The common feature of the changes is the liberalisation of the regime so far, as is understood by the liberal democracy of Slovenia. In the coalition of Slovenia, Nova Slovenija and the Social Democratic Party, our amendments have tried to direct our attention mainly to those government changes that we consider harmful in terms of the development of the Slovenian economy. Since they mean for the first time, adapting the law to the practice achieved to increase the mutual capital or management linkage of banks and undertakings or other legal persons, and adapting to the current criteria for determining the exposure of banks to their debtors. That is why, with our amendments, we have proposed, for the most part, the maintenance of the current regime, the existing provisions, the current law. The debate on our proposed amendments to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has shown that at least some of the government's proposals for liberalisation have been too much for some members of the ruling coalition. That is why some of our amendments have been adopted in whole or in part or through a compromise solution as an amendment committee. Nevertheless, the government or the ruling coalition, with all other amendments, will achieve the essence of the desired substantive changes it needs to round up the implementation of the transitional objectives. This is why Nova Slovenija specifically points out these changes, as we have pointed out in the debates in the Monetary Policy Committee and today. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm sure you'll accept these changes. You have enough voices. The time will come when we can also change this law and put things in the right direction. The fact is, with your votes, you take responsibility from now on for everything that will happen in banking in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Allow me to inform you of the order as you have applied for an explanation of vote: Mr Drobnič, Mr Kelemina, Mr Pucko, Mr Podobnik, Mr Jerovšek. And I ask nicely if anyone speaks on behalf of the Group of Members to say so, because then he has three minutes at his disposal if he speaks on his behalf he has two minutes. Mr. Petty Officer first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Let me explain my voice, too. At the time of adoption of the law now in force, it was confirmed that this law complies with the European Union directives. Now I wonder why these changes were necessary. The changes were obviously because our banks aren't healthy. Instead of adapting banks to sound criteria, appropriate criteria, we will be the criteria for failing banks. This will increase exposure and, of course, risk other events and scandals such as we have witnessed in Slovenia. Another reason is the desire to monopolize in this area. The reduction of the criteria for the sound operation of banks is thus established by these amendments, as you have not accepted the necessary amendments. Greater connection between the supervisor and the supervisor. This is not a healthy relationship, and this also means the emergence of situations like Enron and something else. The concentration of capital and the accumulation of functions and connections. That's not necessary. It is true that our market is not as big, but there is no need for us to risk such severe connections as will be the case with the adoption of the law. All these changes will be the best water on the mill for the new SIB banks. I cannot support such a law, such changes, so I strongly oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u201	Thank you very much. In our Group of Members, we have decided not to support the proposed amendments to the Banking Act. Certain comments have already been made which we presented together in the Slovenian Coalition. All of these comments are simply rejected by the coalition and thus take full responsibility for the solutions or arrangements proposed. We estimate that the obvious pressures of the centres of power, capital and all other political pressures are too great, and that the government, which is also flooded with all these centres of power, is simply adapting the situation to those most suited to them, thereby protecting its own interests. In particular, I do not intend to imagine in which parts we actually observe this nonconsistency or solutions that are not acceptable or contrary to what we would actually expect. Therefore, as I say, we will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pucko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law mainly for the following reasons. In particular, because this law strengthens the way in which a qualified share of banks is acquired, by requiring that a person who has acquired or sought to acquire a qualified share be informed or requested and authorised by the Bank of Slovenia before the transaction itself. It also strengthens sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the law in obtaining a qualified share in the bank and, in this regard, in the case of failure by the Bank of Slovenia to decide on the application for authorisation within the time limit set by the law. We also support the law because it tightens the terms of the application for membership in bank administrations and tightens the conditions for obtaining shares of our banks abroad, particularly outside the European Union, because it must also inform the supervisor here in this case that the bank will inform the Bank of Slovenia of such a transaction beforehand. We also support it because we think the alternative is good owners, good commentants are better than the alternative bad owners, good commentants than the alternative good owners, bad commentants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you, Vice President. I speak for myself. I don't share the misrepresentation of respectable colleagues from the opposition. I believe that the proposed amendment to the law, particularly for the reasons just discussed by my colleague Pucka, represents an important step forward. But these changes are due to the decisions of the National Assembly at the time of the SIB affair. That's what you have to say. Today, I expected at least some amendments from the opposition to be adopted. The amendments have been properly prepared, professionally sound and legally sustainable. If they were adopted, they'd make a better marriage. However, I think it is right today that the National Assembly supports this law as much as possible and that the public also knows that today's adoption of the law is one of the first reactions of the National Assembly to the SIB affair, for that is the case. You know, it's not just a matter of equating with European guidelines and directives. This is important!Some of the things that are related to this so unpleasantly are important for Slovenian politics and for Slovenian banking space is a very unpleasant affair of SIB. This is the first step of the National Assembly to make this change and be a good move by the opposition's colleagues to support it unanimously. But you're right. Your amendments were good. I regret that they lacked the courage to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Another explanation for the vote, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I would like Parliament's response to the SIB affair to be even more decisive, more clear, but not so much so that, despite the possibility of some positive solutions in which some have spoken, this prior agreement and so on, but the law clearly shows that the government coalition has once again given way to the interests of financial lobbying and power whose interests are diametrically contrary to the national interests of our country. At the moment, in fact, due to the SIB affair, I would expect the government to try to prevent these negative catastrophic consequences of not having a clear border between supervisors and supervisors. In the case of the SIB affair, they were one and the same in both roles. You give these options, even more wide, you open the door for it. Look, Prime Minister Rob said that the cause of the SIB affair, that the Liberal Democracy has acted so disastrously corruptly in the incompetent advisors of the mayor. Yes, he was a consultant, we read in Youth, Mr. Bandelj! The same counselor who counseled him and probably also counseled this law. Does the government then have incompetent advisers? Are these incompetent advisers with special interests the strongest in this country? Do they control all the threads? And this law offers the possibility of speculative purchases, as mentioned. In the same way you will spend other banks, as you have lost Banka Koper, which you have placed in the hands of identiistic forces that have no good intentions for this country. If we were to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, we would accept our amendments, which went in a positive direction. No! No! Yew and you are, as the frog reacts to the white, you do not hope to express your national interests clearly before the financial oligarchy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. I will vote against it for the following reasons. Given that this is the first answer to the SIB affair, and taking into account some statements that this is a step forward, it should be borne in mind that three steps forward are also present at this step. What was the SIB's problem, we all know. The problem was the link between capital in the economy and capital in banking and then, of course, we know where the bank is coming from. In doing so, individuals take advantage and society feels, society as residents, and individual small savers feel that way on their shoulders. I am afraid that what we now or will adopt in this law will allow for even greater concentration, greater integration of people, a narrow layer of people, who will be able to continue to act in their own way and to deal with banking in their own way. However, the result will be the same as that of the SIB, I am just afraid that there will be no possibility of restoring the bank with public debt. Since this is really a step forward, but at the same time three steps back, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Bajuk will also explain his voice on his behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Now in his own name, earlier on behalf of the Group of Members. I would like to mention that I have not lost sight of the fact that this is the first law or any measure taken by this national assembly since the Slovenian public was informed of the SIB affair. If that is the answer, it is a very sad answer. If we have learned something and will learn more, those who have not yet shown exactly the SIB affair have shown what happens when businesses play risk in banking. Finally, not those who run the bank, but finally those who pay the taxpayers, pay the taxpayers very much. The fact is, as I mentioned when I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, that some of the amendments that we have proposed have been adopted and therefore we were delighted to be surprised. But for these key amendments, which we have already proposed to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and have explained here today, you did not have sufficient listening. Since my colleague Tsukati correctly assessed that there is one step forward, but three is back, I will vote against this law and pledge to change it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u212	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Pucko as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President. I will vote in favour of this law mainly for the reason that in the part where it talks about the connection of legal persons, it exclusively protects persons, banks owned by Slovenia, or whose owners are Slovenian legal persons. It does not protect the New Ljubljana Bank, not the KBM, nor the Postal Bank, where the country is majority-owned. But mostly you. This is a step that can protect banks that, if we do not accept such a provision, are in great danger. Only for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. The vote was 45 to 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 13. TIME OF DAY - THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE LEGISLATION LAW ON REFERENCE TO PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORK. At its 25th meeting, on 23.4.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft law. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, no third reading amendments could be tabled. Thus, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. Voice explanation, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u215	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will be happy to vote for this law today. But, of course, I am even more pleased that today you will have to vote in favour of this law, including those who have been opposed for two years and who have stopped what our rurals have put in place for the development of telecommunications, even on a fair path. To do that, we had to have a referendum and spend 600 million tolars. These, however, are two ministers, Minister Gantar and Minister Preseknik somehow split it into half, but still. On a formal legal level, however, we will today adopt the law and in some way satisfy justice and fairness. However, I do not believe that this government will actually implement this law. I even hope to predict 100 percent that he won't. Just as he disregards and does not enforce certain other laws, he is likely to fail to comply with that law. Further, I hope even to predict that, as Minister Gunter has said, the government will not initiate a constitutional dispute, but will probably be triggered by someone else. I'm guessing Telekom. He said that paragraph 3 was disputed for him, although the referendum had been decided differently, it was likely that the Constitutional Court, which had recently adopted strange constitutional decisions, would discuss this. If Telekom has problems, it is a period from 1995 to 1997, when the Minister opposes that those who invested at the time would be reimbursed these funds would probably end the enforcement of this law. But I'll be very pleased if that doesn't happen. For preventive reasons, I had to say this here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Here you go. Voice explanation, Mr. Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Today's adoption or approval of the Act on the return of excessive deposits to the public telecommunications network clearly shows the relationship of this national assembly, the relationship of the government and, last but not least, the relationship of the centre to rural development to the enslavements. It is sad that we had to take so many steps that we came to this law that it was necessary to collect more than 70,000 signatures, to literally force the referendum and, through a referendum decision, to influence the adoption of a law that, to some extent, corrects the injustices that have been committed since 1974 onwards, and, by 1995 and something else, have happened to our citizens in the pursuit of purely normal civilisational goods, which is, at last, a telephone connection. Of all the activities that have taken place around this law, it is clear, once again, that negative, exclusionary, dissuasive attitude towards people from the outskirts, people from the countryside, and this is not a good journey for the implementation of the law itself. I hope to state or share with my predecessor that the problems associated with the return of excessive inputs do not end with the adoption of this law. I even think that the problems associated with the recovery of excessive cartridges are just beginning. I hope that's not the case, but I'm afraid the practice shows otherwise. I'll support the law myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Peca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u219	Your Honor! The whole procedure around the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network indicates or demonstrates the total ignorance of the Slovenian government and parts of Slovenian policy, both to the content of the bill and to the referendum decision. In the National Party, we did not object to the proposal of the law either in the second reading on 23 April 2003 and, of course, in addition to the content and in addition to the referendum decision, we will not oppose it today. We sincerely hope that the law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek's explanation for the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Today's decision on this law, and I hope the decision, the adoption of this law, is to suspend the efforts of the Slovenian government, the ruling coalition, following the disengagement of investors in the telecommunications network. These efforts to deny the legitimate rights of these investors have gone beyond all borders. And I certainly am joining my speakers in saying that a phase victory has been achieved, but that the final victory has not yet been achieved, because these appetites about the ownership of Telekom are express. I hope that the Slovenian public opinion will help to ensure that the government cannot so eloquently deny the clearly expressed sense of justice at the referendum and that it will start to apply this law as well as the results of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We're moving to a vote on the law. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on police. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. Our Group of Members cannot accept this proposal for a number of reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that we are aware that some things need to be settled, especially the part where complaints are concerned. This is certainly a subject that needs to be seriously studied and found some solutions. But all that has now come from this is completely out of harmony and somehow reminds us of old times. If we go in order. This solution can and would probably lead to the full politicisation of the police. The fact is, the minister could, and probably, if he could, take advantage of that, he'd have his "stiffs" in the police department. Now let's take a look at the following. The Minister and the Ministry is a political body, the police are professional. And now the political body will be able to put its people in the police structure, which means that politics will oversee the expertise. That's unacceptable. These people will have police powers, they say they will have access to all the files, they will be able to influence all the acts and directly, and at the same time they will be able to monitor the work of the police. On the other hand, the ministry within the Ministry will also have, as an appellate body, a Senate or whatever it is called. Thus, the same body will first have its people on the political side to oversee the work of the profession, while also making complaints, as will an instance who will save the work that they have not done properly in the profession. So this is totally unacceptable and can come back to the political police. That's true, paragraph 56 says that the minister, says, politics can put a cop down, that's what it says, stand down. However, this appeal body, which may be the best case in this respect, should certainly be more independent than it is now. Just because of this possibility, I'm talking about the possibility of abuse, this thing is not acceptable to us, and we're not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u225	Your Honor! The transfer of control, guidance of mandatory instructions, the execution of certain tasks, measures and the direction of procedures within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior seems to us completely irrelevant in the Slovenian National Party. We estimate that the police should not be subject to the interests of daily policy. According to our assessment, the police should remain that institution that is not within reach, and that should be within the very short reach of any minister or any political party. We estimate that if we want to provide independent police with policy, which I think should be, we should not adopt this law either. The problem, at least that's how we assess the ministries or the bill-maker is just one, that is, owning the police and their activities in their lives, which we think is wrong. That is why we will also oppose the proposal of the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree that in the five-year implementation of the law, both those working on the police and citizens have learned a lot and gained experience. That is why I am convinced that you are also the basis for change. And the experience of citizens with cases of domestic violence, I am convinced that they have led to the fact that in the proposal we also have the possibility of empowering police officers to prohibit the approximation of a particular person in the event of domestic violence or the prohibition of approximation within a certain period of time. This certainly seems commendable and encouraging to me. On the other hand, the form of complaint resolution. In this regard, there has been a great deal of talk among citizens and the offer we have in the novel shows that it is worth listening to. However, the set of amendments that discusses the Minister's competence in relation to the police and the duties of the Director-General to the Minister, especially effective and strict police supervision, does not seem to be the same as they would like to be. The Minister himself said that he was as professional, as independent police as possible, the more he had to control her. However, I fear from these changes, which are ahead of us, that this supervisory function will be such and such that it will therefore be less professional autonomy of the police. I am not in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Sok. Here you go. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want to say three sentences. Last time I was on a committee dealing with the Friday case, I had the opportunity to listen to the Director-General of Police. I have to say, he's given an argument as to why he sees things differently. I must say, he also convinced me when he revealed how the police actually operate in some cases. It also seems questionable to me that such strict supervision of the Minister as a political figure over the police alone, which represents a specific institution in each country with special powers, is questionable. What disturbed me today when I listened to the debate here in Parliament is, of course, that some fellow Members have said that the current director of the police has dealt with politics rather than professionally. I think these words have been very easy to say, and of course now is not the time to explain what they meant by that, but in many ways, I don't know how they could justify it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. The law is worth supporting because it brings a lot of news, which I think is a good step forward. I do not agree with those who say there will be too much control over the work of the police. The one who read the Ombudsman's report and the individual cases that have retreated there had to consider that the police should somehow be put under civilian control. That's the first one. Second. I think it's a shame that we missed the opportunity or that the proposaler missed the opportunity to fix the riots as well. It is necessary to know that the Constitutional Court, just at the time that we have dealt with this, has decided that the whole section has to be corrected - it is specific methods and means - to correct it, therefore, is a damage and it is already calling for a new amendment, of course if we are to regulate it in this law. And the next thing I want to say and remind my colleagues and colleagues is that 47 members of this national assembly from all the parties and all the parliamentary groups have signed the conclusion that the police should not do what they are doing in traffic, so let them not control it to raise money for fiscal purposes, but to control where there are really dangerous points. Nothing from that, nothing. You can still get, at the same anchor where they were standing three, four or five police officers, how they hunt people, especially on some small offenses. That is why I think it is right for the Minister to have the opportunity, but of course we have the opportunity of the Minister to order or write some general rules on how the police should take action in these matters. I am not afraid, given that the media are very attentive, I am not afraid that there could be as much abuse as was suggested in some discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u233	Thank you. Slovenia needs a good police force. I think he's got it, too. Individual cases can't be the ones pointing their finger at her that everything's bad. But, of course, the police and we all need a good law on police. The proposed amendments and additions, I think they bring this, so we are on track to improve it further in the second and third readings with the amendments and get a quality new law on police. We believe that all the solutions proposed are acceptable and that they are shown here and there only to debate, improve and we will be on the road to realising the law in practice as well. We will support this conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! I am obliged to provide the speakers with the necessary silence so that they can express their thoughts in a concentrated manner, if I may express myself. Mr. Diaci, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we said earlier in summarising our views that we would support this law. We will support it at first reading, which is an essential difference, rather than supporting the law at third reading. We have mentioned some of the shortcomings we see in this law. We hope that they will be introduced and that this will make the marriage better. At that time, we all observe one of the things that Mr Lavrinc also mentioned - certain things that have happened. The situation, as it is now, is not good. We hope that, after the adoption of the law, even in the following cases, of course, the comments we have made will concern better, especially for citizens, especially those citizens who have in some way experienced injustice in these circumstances, and there are few of them. The relationship between the Minister and the Director-General must also be clear. And I don't have any fear of any political pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u236	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. This way we can move to a vote on the proposal for a decision that the draft law, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 42 votes against 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. And now we're going back to the broken 10th item of the agenda. We have on our hands the amendment of the government to Article 3 in third reading. A full presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and Members as well as the government as drafters of the law is possible on the draft law. Does anyone want a word about this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are therefore moving on to the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of Rule 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the legislature and the government whether the law is inconsistent because of the amendments adopted. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. I interrupt the vote, the explanation of vote, Mrs Ana Marija Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this marriage because it is necessary. However, I would warn the government or the Ministry of Education that there is another open issue that remains in Slovenia. A doctor of dental medicine in the European Union means or gets the address of anyone who has a five-year college education. We do have two dentists now. The first to have a five-year-old and the second to have a six-year college education. In this area, I think the ministry or government should do something with the Faculty of Medicine of Dentistry. Thank you very much. Otherwise, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. 54 Members and Members voted in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all very much for your cooperation and good night.
